Ryanair targeted with legal action over flight disruption Compensation-claim processing site Flightright has 
initiated legal action in Germany on behalf of pass....
Ryanair targeted with legal action over flight disruption; Compensation-
claim processing site Flightright has initiated legal action in Germany on 
behalf of passengers seeking compensation caused by Ryanair flight delays 
and cancellations resulting from strikes.
Flight International
August 15, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 196 words
Body
Compensation-claim processing site Flightright has initiated legal action in Germany on behalf of passengers 
seeking compensation for Ryanair flight delays and cancellations resulting from strikes.
Flightright says it filed the lawsuit at a regional court in Frankfurt on 14 August.
The company disputes Ryanair's position that industrial action is an "exceptional circumstance" warranting rejection 
of compensation claims, arguing that the airline has "caused such a strike through years of wage-dumping and 
salami tactics in talks with the trade unions."
It describes the strike as "home-made" and "the logical consequence of Ryanair's questionable personnel policy".
Ryanair says it "fully complies" with EU compensation rules set down under the EU261 regulation.
"Under EU261 legislation, no compensation is payable when the union is acting unreasonably and totally beyond 
the airline's control," says Ryanair. "If this was within our control, there would be no cancellations."
The airline's schedule has recently been disrupted by industrial action by pilots in Belgium, Ireland and the 
Netherlands, as well as Germany, in disputes over union recognition and working conditions.
Load-Date: August 15, 2018
End of Document
Head-To-Head Comparison: Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) versus Ryanair (RYAAY)
Head-To-Head Comparison: Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) versus Ryanair 
(RYAAY)
Watchlist News
August 14, 2018 Tuesday 6:07 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 756 words
Body
Aug 14, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Deutsche Lufthansa 
(NASDAQ: RYAAY[1]) and Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) are both large-cap transportation companies, but which 
is the better business? We will contrast the two companies based on the strength of their earnings, dividends, 
institutional ownership, profitability, valuation, analyst recommendations and risk. Earnings ...luation This table 
compares Deutsche Lufthansa and Ryanair's top-line revenue, earnings per share and valuation. 
Deutsche Lufthansa has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. Deutsche Lufthansa is trading at a lower price-
to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. Institutional 
...sider Ownership0.2% of Deutsche Lufthansa shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 43.8% of 
Ryanair shares are held by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that endowments, 
hedge funds and large money managers believe a company is poised for long-term growth.ProfitabilityThis table 
compares Deutsche Lufthansa and Ryanair's net margins, return on equity and return on assets. Analyst 
RecommendationsThis is a summary of recent ratings and target prices for Deutsche Lufthansa and Ryanair, as 
reported by MarketBeat.com. DividendsDeutsche Lufthansa pays an annual dividend of $0.67 per share and has a 
dividend yield of 2.6%. Ryanair does not pay a dividend. Deutsche Lufthansa pays out 11.8% of its earnings in the 
form of a dividend. Risk and Volatility Deutsche Lufthansa has a beta of 0.74, meaning that its share price is 26% 
less volatile than the S...00. Comparatively, Ryanair has a beta of 0.64, meaning that its share price is 36% less 
volatile than the S...00. SummaryRyanair beats Deutsche Lufthansa on 8 of the 14 factors compared between the 
two stocks.About Deutsche LufthansaDeutsche Lufthansa AG operates as an aviation company in Germany and 
internationally. It operates through Network Airlines, Point-to-Point Airlines, Logistics, MRO, Catering segments. 
The Network Airlines segment offers passenger services through a route network of 263 destinations in 86 
countries. The Point-to-Point Airlines segment provides passenger services through a route network of 192 
destinations in 62 countries. The Logistics segment offers a range of cargo transport services for various cargos, 
including live animals, valuable cargo, mail, dangerous goods, and temperature-sensitive cargo. This segment 
serves approximately 300 destinations in approximately 100 countries. The MRO segment provides maintenance, 
repair, and overhaul services for civilian commercial aircraft. It serves airlines and aircraft leasing companies, 
operators of VIP jets, and public-sector clients. The Catering segment offers catering, in-flight sales and in-flight 
entertainment, in-flight service equipment, and the associated logistics, as well as consulting services and operating 
airport lounges. The company also provides consulting and IT services for the aviation industry; training courses in 
simulator training, emergency and service drill, and e-learning; business travel management solutions in the area of 
payment and analysis of corporate travel; and aviation and transport insurance products, as well as insurance 
Head-To-Head Comparison: Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) versus Ryanair (RYAAY)
brokerage, reinsurance, and risk management services. As of December 31, 2017, it had a fleet of 728 aircraft. 
Deutsche Lufthansa AG is headquartered in Cologne, Germany.About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with 
its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, 
Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-
related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as 
engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In addition, the company sells bus and rail 
tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car parking, attractions, and activities, as well as 
gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and 
offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving approximately 200 airports primarily in 
Europe. 
The 
company 
was 
founded 
in 
1985 
and 
is 
headquartered 
in 
Swords, 
Ireland. 
[ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/OTCMKTS/DLAKY/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/OTCMKTS/DLAKY/ 
Load-Date: August 14, 2018
End of Document
Head-To-Head Comparison: Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) versus Ryanair (RYAAY)
Head-To-Head Comparison: Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) versus Ryanair 
(RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
August 14, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 795 words
Body
Deutsche Lufthansa (NASDAQ: RYAAY ) and Ryanair (           NASDAQ:RYAAY ) are both large-cap transportation 
companies, but which is the better business? We will contrast the two companies based on the strength of their 
earnings, dividends, institutional ownership, profitability, valuation, analyst recommendations and risk.  
Earnings & Valuation This table compares Deutsche Lufthansa and Ryanair's top-line revenue, earnings per 
share and valuation.
Gross 
Revenue
Price/Sales 
Ratio
Net Income
Earnings Per 
Share
Price/Earnings 
Ratio
Deutsche 
Lufthansa
$40.19 billion
0.31
$2.67 billion
$5.68
4.60
Ryanair
$8.37 billion
2.74
$1.70 billion
$7.05
13.87
Deutsche Lufthansa has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. Deutsche Lufthansa is trading at a lower price-
to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. 
Institutional & Insider Ownership
0.2% of Deutsche Lufthansa shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 43.8% of Ryanair shares are 
held by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that endowments, hedge funds and 
large money managers believe a company is poised for long-term growth. 
Profitability
This table compares Deutsche Lufthansa and Ryanair's net margins, return on equity and return on assets.
Net Margins
Return on Equity
Return on Assets
Deutsche Lufthansa
6.59%
26.62%
6.29%
Ryanair
18.47%
29.19%
11.34%
Analyst Recommendations
This is a summary of recent ratings and target prices for Deutsche Lufthansa and Ryanair, as reported by 
MarketBeat.com. 
Head-To-Head Comparison: Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) versus Ryanair (RYAAY)
Sell Ratings
Hold Ratings
Buy Ratings
Strong Buy 
Ratings
Rating Score
Deutsche 
Lufthansa
1
3
3
0
2.29
Ryanair
1
6
2
0
2.11
Dividends
Deutsche Lufthansa pays an annual dividend of $0.67 per share and has a dividend yield of 2.6%. Ryanair does not 
pay a dividend. Deutsche Lufthansa pays out 11.8% of its earnings in the form of a dividend.  
Risk and Volatility Deutsche Lufthansa has a beta of 0.74, meaning that its share price is 26% less volatile than 
the S&P 500. Comparatively, Ryanair has a beta of 0.64, meaning that its share price is 36% less volatile than the 
S&P 500. 
Summary
Ryanair beats Deutsche Lufthansa on 8 of the 14 factors compared between the two stocks. 
About Deutsche Lufthansa
Deutsche Lufthansa logo Deutsche Lufthansa AG operates as an aviation company in Germany and internationally. 
It operates through Network Airlines, Point-to-Point Airlines, Logistics, MRO, Catering segments. The Network 
Airlines segment offers passenger services through a route network of 263 destinations in 86 countries. The Point-
to-Point Airlines segment provides passenger services through a route network of 192 destinations in 62 countries. 
The Logistics segment offers a range of cargo transport services for various cargos, including live animals, valuable 
cargo, mail, dangerous goods, and temperature-sensitive cargo. This segment serves approximately 300 
destinations in approximately 100 countries. The MRO segment provides maintenance, repair, and overhaul 
services for civilian commercial aircraft. It serves airlines and aircraft leasing companies, operators of VIP jets, and 
public-sector clients. The Catering segment offers catering, in-flight sales and in-flight entertainment, in-flight 
service equipment, and the associated logistics, as well as consulting services and operating airport lounges. The 
company also provides consulting and IT services for the aviation industry; training courses in simulator training, 
emergency and service drill, and e-learning; business travel management solutions in the area of payment and 
analysis of corporate travel; and aviation and transport insurance products, as well as insurance brokerage, 
reinsurance, and risk management services. As of December 31, 2017, it had a fleet of 728 aircraft. Deutsche 
Lufthansa AG is headquartered in Cologne, Germany. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair logo Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such 
as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel 
insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In 
addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car 
parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 
737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving 
approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, 
Ireland.    
Load-Date: August 14, 2018
End of Document
ANALYSIS: How more airlines are sharing in sector's good fortune While operating profits were, overall, down 
slightly among the 100 biggest airline groups in 20....
ANALYSIS: How more airlines are sharing in sector's good fortune; While 
operating profits were, overall, down slightly among the 100 biggest airline 
groups in 2017, there was the widest-ever spread of those enjoying billion-
dollar returns, FlightGlobal's annual World Airline Rankings reveals.
Flight International
August 14, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 804 words
Body
While operating profits were, overall, down slightly among the 100 biggest airline groups in 2017, there was the 
widest-ever spread of those enjoying billion-dollar returns, FlightGlobal's annual World Airline Rankings reveals.
Operating profits across the 100 biggest airline groups by revenue – or the 87 for which figures are available – did, 
however, slip nearly 3% last year in reaching almost $57 billion.
That largely reflects lower profit levels in the North American market. While the region's carriers remain industry-
leading, continuing to deliver almost half of all profits, operating levels were down 11% at just under $26 billion for 
the year.
But a record 20 airline groups generated operating profits of more than $1 billion in 2017 – two more than in 2016, 
as Emirates and Turkish Airlines both bounced back. The pair had each generated $1 billion-plus in 2015, before 
challenges hit them in 2016.
The increased number and spread of groups enjoying operating profits in excess of $1 billion have been a notable 
feature of the current economic cycle – one which has surpassed previous levels in terms of both profit and 
longevity.
In 2009, in the grip of the financial crisis, only one airline group generated more than $1 billion in operating profit. 
Even in 2013, there were just seven airline groups recording that level of return.
Alongside a benign economic environment and the benefits of relatively low oil prices, this also reflects greater 
consolidation within the industry. Airline groups not only have a larger operation from which to generate profits, but 
integration has also taken out some of the competition.
ANALYSIS: How more airlines are sharing in sector's good fortune While operating profits were, overall, down 
slightly among the 100 biggest airline groups in 20....
Eight of the 20 groups with operating profits of more than $1 billion are from North America – including the four 
most profitable, in the form of American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Southwest Airlines and United Airlines. Profits 
were down at all four, but they still generated combined operating returns of $17 billion.
The fall largely reflected increased costs, notably from labour and fuel. But collective net profit among North 
American carriers improved during the year, aided by some one-off gains following changes to the tax code last 
year.
Europe's big-three network carrier groups all generated operating profits in excess of $1 billion. Indeed, one carrier 
at each of these groups reached that profit level in their own right – Lufthansa, British Airways at IAG, and KLM, 
which continues to outshine its bigger partner in Air France-KLM.
Ryanair, for all its high-profile operational challenges last year, continues to enjoy an enviable profit record.
Chinese and Japanese carriers lead profitability among the big Asia-Pacific airline groups. Revived Australian group 
Qantas is the only other operator in the region to have enjoyed an operating profit of more than $1 billion – and for a 
third successive year.
By contrast, restructuring Cathay Pacific – one of just eight groups to post an operating profit of more than $1 billion 
in 2010 – slipped to an even deeper loss in 2017.
Gulf carrier Emirates is the only operator among the 20 most profitable to come from outside North America, 
Europe and Asia-Pacific. Profit rebounded at the operator, in stark contrast to the fortunes of its rival Middle Eastern 
giants.
Restructuring Etihad Airways disclosed a net loss of $1.5 billion as it suffered a number of one-off hits, notably from 
its European investments.
Meanwhile, Qatar Airways – which has been forced to restructure its network following the airspace closure by 
several neighbouring states since last June's escalation of a diplomatic row in the region – has not yet disclosed its 
financial result for the year.
Africa remains a challenging market. Ethiopian Airlines posted another profit, but South African Airways remains 
mired in losses and Kenya Airways continues to work through its restructuring.
One of the unheralded returns of last year was the pick-up in air freight. The sector has remained under pressure 
throughout the cycle. Even as traffic returned, yields continued to struggle.
Yet conditions improved across 2017. Revenues rose more than a quarter among such operators included in the 
top 100 biggest carriers – including the freight arms of groups that would appear among the largest airlines by 
revenue in their own right.
Low-cost and leisure carriers continue to play an increasingly prominent role in the industry, accounting for around 
a sixth of revenues among the top 100 operators.
Southwest is only low-cost carrier to rank among the 10 biggest airline groups by revenue, while three others – 
Ryanair, JetBlue and EasyJet – figure among the top 30. But low-cost operations comprise an ever-more prominent 
part of the biggest airline groups, and around half of the 30 biggest airline groups have their own LCC.
The full report is available to download here
Load-Date: August 15, 2018
ANALYSIS: How more airlines are sharing in sector's good fortune While operating profits were, overall, down 
slightly among the 100 biggest airline groups in 20....
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Monday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Monday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
August 13, 2018 Monday 11:05 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 221 words
Body
 American Depositary Receipts of European stocks were trading 0.07% higher at 134.77 on the Bank of New York 
Mellon Europe ADR Index on Monday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by biotech firm Zealand Pharma (ZEAL), and software company SAP 
(SAP), which rose 3% and 1.6% respectively. They were followed by semiconductor company STMicroelectronics 
(STM), and pharmaceutical firm Sanofi (SNY), which were up 1.6% and 1.1%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by furniture maker Natuzzi (NTZ), which fell 3.8%, followed by banks 
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA), Deutsche Bank (DB), and Banco Santander (SAN), which lost 2.8%, 
2.7%, and 2.3% respectively. 
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by biotech company Midatech Pharma (MTP), which surged 15.4%, 
followed by gene therapy company Nightstar (NITE), which rose 2.6%. Airline operator Ryanair (RYAAY), and 
biopharmaceutical company NuCana (NCNA) were up 2.4% and 1.1% respectively. 
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by pharmaceutical company Avadel (AVDL), and mining company 
Randgold Resources (GOLD), which lost 1.6% and 1.5% respectively. They were followed by pharmaceutical firm 
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), and biopharmaceutical company Amarin (AMRN), which were off 0.9% and 0.6%.
Price: 0.60, Change: +0.08, Percent Change: +15.36
Load-Date: August 14, 2018
End of Document
Somewhat Favorable Press Coverage Somewhat Unlikely to Impact Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Share Price
Somewhat Favorable Press Coverage Somewhat Unlikely to Impact Ryanair 
(RYAAY) Share Price
Watchlist News
August 13, 2018 Monday 8:11 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 732 words
Body
Aug 13, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  News stories about Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) have been trending somewhat positive on Monday, Accern Sentiment Analysis reports. Accern 
identifies negative and positive news coverage by analyzing more than twenty million news and blog sources in real 
time. Accern ranks coverage of public companies on a scale of negative one to positive one, with scores closest to 
one being the most favorable. 
Ryanair earned a media sentiment score of 0.08 on Accern's scale. Accern also assigned news coverage about the 
transportation company an impact score of 46.1436768407484 out of 100, meaning that recent news coverage is 
somewhat unlikely to have an impact on the company's share price in the next few days. Here are some of the 
news articles that may have impacted Accern Sentiment Analysis's rankings: What is Opportunity Here? Ryanair 
Holdings plc (RYAAY)[1] (connectinginvestor.com)Ryanair Cancels 396 Flights Amid Strike; To Operate 85% Of 
Schedule; 
Stock 
Dips[2] 
(markets.businessinsider.com)Ryanair 
strike 
grounds 
European 
flights[3] 
(seekingalpha.com)Ryanair 
Set 
to 
Resume 
Talks 
With 
Irish 
Pilots, 
Aided 
by 
Mediator[4] 
(finance.yahoo.com)Services Stock to Track: Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)[5] (stockdigest.info) Several research 
analysts have weighed in on RYAAY shares. Zacks Investment Research[6] cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a 
"sell" rating in a research report on Friday, April 20th. ValuEngine[7] cut Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "sell" 
rating in a research report on Tuesday, July 24th. Deutsche Bank cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating 
in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. BidaskClub raised Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating 
in a research report on Friday, May 25th. Finally, Exane BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a sell 
rating, six have given a hold rating and two have assigned a buy rating to the company. The company currently has 
an average rating of "Hold" and an average price target of $138.00.Shares of NASDAQ RYAAY[8] opened at 
$96.77 on Monday. Ryanair has a one year low of $94.50 and a one year high of $127.61. The company has a 
debt-to-equity ratio of 0.72, a quick ratio of 1.12 and a current ratio of 1.12. The firm has a market cap of $23.31 
billion, a PE ratio of 13.73 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results 
on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, beating analysts' 
consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 29.19% and a net margin of 18.47%. The 
firm had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. research 
analysts expect that Ryanair will post 6.28 EPS for the current fiscal year. About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, 
together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled 
Somewhat Favorable Press Coverage Somewhat Unlikely to Impact Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Share Price
services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its 
Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.Further Reading: Stock 
Symbols Definition, Examples, Lookup [9] [ 1]: https://connectinginvestor.com/2018/08/what-is-opportunity-here-
ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-2/ [ 2]:            https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/stocks/ryanair-cancels-396-
flights-amid-strike-to-operate-85-of-schedule-stock-dips-1027449538 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://seekingalpha.com/news/3381526-ryanair-strike-grounds-european-flights 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://finance.yahoo.com/m/49de5742-375c-3f45-a282-2cfbdd63fcd7/ryanair-set-to-resume-talks.html?.tsrc=rss 
[ 
5]:            https://stockdigest.info/2018/08/08/services-stock-to-track-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-2/ [ 6]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
7]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
8]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 9]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/stock-symbols-cusip-stock-identifiers/ 
Load-Date: August 13, 2018
End of Document
Raymond James Downgrades Ryanair ( RYA ) to Market Perform
Raymond James Downgrades Ryanair (RYA) to Market Perform
DailyPolitical
August 13, 2018 Monday 7:06 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 242 words
Body
Aug 
12, 
2018( 
DailyPolitical: 
http://www.dailypolitical.com/ 
Delivered 
by 
Newstex) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.pngRaymond James cut shares of Ryanair (LON:RYA) 
to a market perform rating in a research report report published on Thursday morning.RYA has been the subject of 
a number of other research reports. AlphaValue lowered shares of Ryanair to a reduce rating in a research report 
on Wednesday, July 25th. Liberum Capital cut their target price on shares of Ryanair from GBX 21 ($0.27) to GBX 
18.50 ($0.24) and set a buy rating for the company in a research report on Wednesday, May 23rd.Shares of 
Ryanair opened at GBX 1,298 ($16.80) on Thursday, Marketbeat Ratings[1] reports. Ryanair has a twelve month 
low of GBX 13.99 ($0.18) and a twelve month high of GBX 19.78 ($0.26). About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, 
together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled 
services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its 
Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.Featured Article: 
Diversification in Your Portfolio [2] [ 1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 2]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/diversification-investing/ 
Load-Date: August 13, 2018
End of Document
Verdi To Meet With Ryanair To Discuss Pay Hike For Cabin Crew
Verdi To Meet With Ryanair To Discuss Pay Hike For Cabin Crew
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 13, 2018 Monday 11:59 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 77 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - The German Union, Verdi, stated that it will be holding discussions with Irish low-cost 
airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) to reach a Collective Labour Agreement on the pay hike proposed for the flight 
attendants working in Germany. The Union is demanding a substantial pay hike.  Last week, Ryanair cancelled 250 
flights scheduled to operate on 10th August 2018 at Ryanair airports in Germany due to a strike organized by the 
pilot union.      
Load-Date: August 13, 2018
End of Document
6-K - RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (0001038683) (Filer)
6-K - RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (0001038683) (Filer)
Newstex Blogs
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
August 13, 2018 Monday 10:10 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 64 words
Body
Aug 13, 2018( U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission: https://www.sec.gov Delivered by Newstex)  Filing Date 
2018-08-13 Accepted 2018-08-13 06:04:40 Documents 1 Period of Report 2018-08-13 Document Format 
FilesMailing Address CT CORPORATION SYSTEM 1633 BROADWAY NEW YORK NY 10019 Business Address 
C/O RYANAIR LTD CORPORATE HEAD OFFICE DUBLIN AIRPORT COUNTY DUBLIN IRELAN L2 3538444440 
Load-Date: August 13, 2018
End of Document
Sunday Papers: Ashley’s House of Fraser deal faces government enquiry
Sunday Papers: Ashley’s House of Fraser deal faces government enquiry
Citywire
August 12, 2018 Sunday 5:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 738 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And top bosses of Centrica will share performance-linked incentives worth almost £2 million this 
summer.
Body
Top stories
•
Mail on Sunday: Administrators from EY could face a Government enquiry over selling the bust department 
store House of Fraser in a controversial £90 million deal to Mike Ashley, rejecting a higher 'white knight' 
offer from rival retail billionaire Philip Day.
•
Mail on Sunday: Top bosses of British Gas owner Centrica will share performance-linked incentives worth 
almost £2 million this summer, as the Big Six pushed through controversial price hikes for customers.
•
The Sunday Times: The Financial Reporting Council has said that the audit giant PwC has failed to 
highlight the department store BHS account’s “incomplete, inaccurate and misleading” statements about its 
ability to continue as a going concern after its £1 sale by Sir Philip Green.
•
The Independent on Sunday: CaseLabs, a high-end PC case maker, has announced that has been “forced 
into bankruptcy and liquidation” by tariffs introduced by Donald Trump.
•
The Sunday Telegraph: Just days after Mike Ashley wrestled House of Fraser from Philip Day, the retail 
billionaires are set to battle for control of Debenhams.
Business and economics
•
Mail on Sunday: Inflation is likely to have risen to 2.5% last month due to increases in energy costs, figures 
out this week are expected to show.
•
Mail on Sunday: Government schemes such as Help to Buy pushed the number of first-time property 
buyers during the first half of this year to its highest level in a decade, according to Halifax.
•
Mail on Sunday: Merseyside-based robotics company Blue Prism will hand a near-£100million bonus 
bonanza to its more than 70 staff after a stunning stock market run triggered Silicon Valley-style rewards.
•
The Sunday Telegraph: The â€‹UK’s Epipen shortage has deepened after US drug giant Mylan began 
rationing access to the vital medicine.
•
The Sunday Telegraph: Ryanair’s trouble is set to deepen after Polish pilots plan to join strike, the 
president of the European ­Cockpit Association has said.
Sunday Papers: Ashley’s House of Fraser deal faces government enquiry
•
The Sunday Times: The Bank of England has ploughed billions of the Treasury’s foreign currency reserves 
into euros since the Brexit referendum, in an apparent vote of confidence in the single currency.
•
The Independent on Sunday: Monsanto has defended its Roundup weedkiller as safe despite being 
ordered to pay $289 million to a school groundsman who claims it contributed to his terminal cancer.
•
The Sunday Times: The advertising giant WPP has approached a senior executive at IBM in its search for 
a chief executive to replace Sir Martin Sorrell.
•
The Sunday Times: Europe’s biggest aerospace and airline companies have demanded that Brussels 
allows Europe’s air safety watchdog to plan for a no-deal Brexit, amid fears that flights could be grounded.
•
Mail on Sunday: Property developer Charles Rifkind is offering cricket fans a slice of Lord's cricket ground 
next spring through a bitcoin scheme for £500 a share.
•
The Sunday Times: Clifden Isle of Man No 1, an investment vehicle, and its director, Rizwan Hussain, who 
tried to seize control of a property portfolio owned by the tycoon Vincent Tchenguiz have lost a court battle 
and now face being referred to the Insolvency Service.
•
The Sunday Times: Peter Williams, the founder of Jack Wills, is set to leave the preppy fashion brand after 
financial pressures led to a row with its private equity owner.
•
The Sunday Times: The Financial Conduct Authority has been accused of putting Royal Bank of Scotland’s 
reputation ahead of the need to protect customers after it failed to take disciplinary action over the bank’s 
mistreatment of small businesses.
•
The Observer: Seven Marks & Spencer clothing stores will close their doors permanently on Saturday as 
the high street chain pushes ahead with a radical transformation plan.
•
The Sunday Times: Madrid-based Talgo has launched a legal challenge against the High Speed 2 rail line 
over its plans to buy £2.8 billion of trains.
Share tips, comment and bids
•
Mail on Sunday (Midas share tips): HOLD Domino's Pizza.
•
The Sunday Times: Vagabond, a pour-your-own-wine bar where drinkers top up a payment card before 
serving themselves, has raised £3.5 million from investor Imbiba to expand.
•
The Sunday Times: Hargreaves Lansdown announced a special dividend for the funds tycoons Peter 
Hargreaves and Stephen Lansdown amounting to £81 million after the asset manager revealed a profit 
increase of 10% to £292.4 million last week.
•
The Sunday Telegraph (Comment): Musk's half-baked plan threatens Tesla's dream.
Load-Date: August 12, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair cancels 400 flights as pilots strike in five countries Industrial action
Ryanair cancels 400 flights as pilots strike in five countries; Industrial action
Financial Times (London, England)
August 11, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 467 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair experienced its worst day of strikes yesterday as industrial action across five countries forced it to cancel 
400 flights, or 15 per cent of its daily total, at the height of the summer holiday season.
Pilots' unions in Ireland, Germany, Belgium, Sweden and the Netherlands staged strikes in protest at what they said 
was Ryanair's refusal to improve their terms and conditions and to employ them under local, rather than Irish, 
contracts.
The airline apologised on Twitter for what it called "the regrettable and unjustified strike action", but people who said 
their flights had been cancelled criticised a lack of support and response from the company.
Forsa, which represents Ryanair's Ireland-based pilots, said the airline's pugnacious style and "lack of experience" 
in industrial relations had led to its members' fifth one-day strike. Ryanair has now proposed a third-party moderator 
for its negotiations with Forsa.
Michael O'Leary, the company's chief executive, warned its Irish pilots and cabin crew before earlier industrial 
action that if they went on strike again, the airline would move 20 per cent of its Dublin-based fleet to Poland. In late 
July, Ryanair announced it would do this, putting more than 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew at risk of redundancy.
Ryanair on Thursday took the Dutch union that represents 50 of its pilots to court to prevent it striking over the 
summer. The Association of Dutch Pilots said it was surprised by the move because it had not announced a strike 
date. In response, it decided to strike yesterday and won the case.
Ryanair cancels 400 flights as pilots strike in five countries Industrial action
The problem for Ryanair is that its unions across Europe are synchronising their efforts. Forsa said: "Company 
management has previously attempted to paint its Irish pilots as outliers, saying that it was doing deals and 
conducting successful negotiations elsewhere in Europe."
Joost van Doesburg, of the Association of Dutch Pilots, previously told the Financial Times that continent-wide 
action would send a more powerful message. "We believe strikes in Europe can give [Ryanair] a wake-up call that 
they are not on the right track with what they're doing now," he said.
The company's shares were down 3.8 per cent to (EURO)12.97 in mid-afternoon trading.
Analysts are sceptical that Ryanair will be able to beat the unions, leading to a higher-cost business model. Andrew 
Lobbenberg of HSBC wrote in a note that the "new-found confidence of unions", a 2017 EU employment-law 
judgment and the global pilot shortage would empower workers.
All of this will diminish Ryanair's market-leading low-cost model, Mr Lobbenberg said. "We expect the future 
Ryanair in equilibrium to end up looking very similar to a well-run easyJet," he added.
'We believe strikes in Europe can give [Ryanair] a wake-up call that they are not on the right track'
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
Saturday Papers: Turkish lira plunges as Trump takes tariff action
Saturday Papers: Turkish lira plunges as Trump takes tariff action
Citywire
August 11, 2018 Saturday 7:59 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 568 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And the Sports Direct billionaire Mike Ashley paid £90 million for House of Fraser, just 82 minutes after it 
was plunged into administration.
Body
Top stories
•
The Guardian: The Turkish lira plunged by more than 20% against the dollar after Donald Trump 
announced he was doubling US import tariffs on Turkish steel and aluminium, deepening the country’s 
unfolding economic crisis.
•
Daily Mail: The Sports Direct billionaire Mike Ashley yesterday paid £90 million for House of Fraser - just 
82 minutes after it was plunged into administration.
•
Financial Times: Shares in Russia’s leading industrial groups tumbled on Friday as investors digested a 
proposed new tax on the country’s biggest metals, mining and chemicals companies.
•
The Guardian: Ryanair was forced to ground nearly 400 flights scheduled for Friday because of pilot 
strikes.
Business and economics
•
Daily Mail: Nationwide posted a 12% fall in first quarter profits to £281million, down from £322 million at the 
same point a year ago.
•
Financial Times: Ex-director has accused Goldman Sachs of attempting to “pin the blame” for a money 
laundering scandal on him that led to his dismissal.
•
The Daily Telegraph: The Co-op Bank on Friday said that Tom Wood, its chief financial and restructuring 
officer, was standing down and would leave once a replacement was found.
•
The Daily Telegraph: UK Chancellor Philip Hammond has threatened an “Amazon tax” for online retailers 
amid fears that high street shops are being put out of business.
•
The Times: Shares in BBVA, Unicredit and BNP Paribas fell sharply yesterday amid concerns about their 
Turkish holdings.
•
The Guardian: Nike was hit with a federal lawsuit by four women who used to work for the company, 
alleging it violated state and US equal-pay laws and fostered a work environment that allowed sexual 
harassment.
Saturday Papers: Turkish lira plunges as Trump takes tariff action
•
The Daily Telegraph: Tesla’s chief vehicle engineer Doug Field has rejoined Apple to work on the iPhone 
giant’s secretive self-driving car project.
•
The Daily Telegraph: The head of Facebook’s cryptocurrency team, David Marcus, has revealed that he 
was leaving his role at Coinbase to focus on the social network's strategy.
•
Financial Times: Ineos is planning to venture into automotive manufacturing and has selected German 
companies to develop the successor to the Land Rover Defender.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Energy supplier Npower has registered a loss of £15 million over the first half of the 
year, compared to a loss of £11 million in the same months last year, and lost around 350,000 customers.
•
The Guardian: The UK GDP increased by 0.4% in the second quarter from a rate of 0.2% in the previous 
three months thanks to warmer weather, despite the manufacturing sector slumped into recession.
•
Financial Times: Swedish telecoms company Ericsson is set to hire 380 people to expand in the US and 
take advantage of the woes of Chinese rivals ZTE and Huawei.
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Daily Telegraph: Yellow Cake, an investment vehicle designed to profit from the rising price of 
uranium, said it would buy another £8 million-worth of the radioactive mineral from Kazakh supplier 
Kazatomprom.
•
Financial Times: US life insurer MassMutual is planning to sell asset manager OppenheimerFunds in a 
deal that could be worth more than $5 billion.
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): Retailers like House of Fraser were radical once – with bold ideas they 
could be once more.
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): Saudi Arabia must resist the temptation to use oil as weapon.
•
The Times (Comment): We have little to fear from a falling pound, except a dent in our pride.
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair pilots strike in Germany, 4 other countries
Ryanair pilots strike in Germany, 4 other countries
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 10, 2018 Friday 10:08 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 392 words
Dateline: BERLIN 
Body
BERLIN (AP) - Ryanair pilots in several European countries staged a strike over work conditions on Friday that 
prompted the budget carrier to cancel 400 flights.
Walkouts called by German and Belgian unions accounted for many of the cancelations, with strikes also called in 
Sweden and Ireland.
The airline said that over 2,000 flights, or 85 percent of its schedule, would operate as normal and that the majority 
of passengers affected have been re-booked on other Ryanair services.
German pilot representatives had said this week they were joining the strike action with a 24-hour walkout, ending 
at 2.59 a.m. Saturday, because they want pay and work conditions comparable to those at Ryanair's competitors.
The company has pointed to recent pay increases and invitations to meet for negotiations. Ryanair urged the 
unions "to continue negotiations instead of calling any more unjustified strikes."
Ryanair built its low-cost business model without unions, but said last year it would recognize them. Labor 
representatives are seeking collective-bargaining agreements in the different countries.
The airline has already been hit with strikes by flight attendants in Spain, Portugal and Belgium. Irish pilots have 
held four strike days.
In the Netherlands, the carrier was using non-striking pilots to keep its service running for passengers. In a tweet 
Thursday night, the company said that "there will be no cancellations" as a result of the Dutch union's strike.
Ryanair launched unsuccessful legal action in a Dutch court to prevent the strike in the Netherlands.
In Sweden, some 40 Ryanair pilots walked out to demand a collective labor agreement.
Martin Lindgren, head of the Swedish Air Line Pilots Association, said that "a strike is necessary to show the airline 
that it no longer can avoid treating its employees in a dignified manner."
Ryanair pilots strike in Germany, 4 other countries
At Ryanair's main Belgian hub, the Charleroi airport south of Brussels, a few dozen striking pilots gathered in the 
main terminal behind a banner marked "Ryanair on strike, Ryanair must change."
The Belgian Cockpit Association's Alain Vanalderweireldt said the strike in Belgium "is the conclusion of six months 
of discussions between Ryanair and the union representatives that has led to nowhere concretely."
While the union wants to apply Belgian labor laws to employees, Ryanair is still applying Irish laws, he said.
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
Among the stories Friday from The Associated Press
Among the stories Friday from The Associated Press
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 10, 2018 Friday 2:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 677 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
NEW YORK (AP) - Among the stories Friday from The Associated Press:
FRIDAY FOR SATURDAY
TOP STORIES:
TURKEY-ECONOMY-THE LATEST - President Donald Trump says he's just authorized the doubling of steel and 
aluminum tariffs "with respect to Turkey." SENT, 949 words, photo.
GROWING UP DIGITAL-TECH AND CAMP - With summer in full swing, thousands of kids at sleepaway camps 
around the U.S. are doing without their cell phones, laptops and iPads. So how's it going? Camp directors, parents 
and kids themselves say it's not as bad as some would think. UPCOMING: By Leanne Italie. 970 words, photo.
MARKETS & ECONOMY:
FINANCIAL MARKETS MARKETS RIGHT NOW - Stocks are opening moderately lower on Wall Street following 
steeper losses in Europe, where investors worried about a sharp drop in Turkey's currency. SENT, 147 words, 
photo.
CONSUMER PRICES - Consumer prices climbed 2.9 percent in July from a year earlier, a rate of inflation that 
suggests Americans are earning less than a year ago despite an otherwise solid economy. The Labor Department 
said Friday that the consumer price index ticked up 0.2 percent in July. SENT, By Josh Boak, 361 words, photos.
BUDGET DEFICIT - The Treasury Department releases federal budget data for April. By Josh Boak. UPCOMING: 
130 words after release of report at 2 p.m., 250 words by 2:45 p.m.
INDUSTRY:
EUROPE RYANAIR STRIKE - Ryanair pilots in several European countries are staging a strike that has prompted 
the budget carrier to cancel 400 flights. Walkouts called by German and Belgian unions accounted for many of 
Friday's cancelations. Strikes were also called in Sweden and Ireland. SENT, 383 words, photos.
Among the stories Friday from The Associated Press
CONGRESS CORPORATE BOARDS - Congressman Chris Collins' indictment on insider trading charges is 
drawing attention to the fact that members of Congress are not prohibited from serving on corporate boards as long 
as they don't receive compensation for doing so. SENT, 927 words, By Richard Lardner, photos.
TECHNOLOGY & MEDIA
TECH COMPANIES FREE SPEECH - The Alex Jones situation has thrust Facebook, YouTube, Twitter and others 
into a role they never wanted - as gatekeepers of public discourse on their platforms who are going to anger lots of 
people no matter what they do. But they should have seen this coming as they built huge businesses by sweeping 
away existing gatekeepers while promising to protect their users from harassment and abuse. By Barbara Ortutay. 
UPCOMING: 900 words by 10am ET, photos.
INTERNATIONAL:
CHINA AUTO SALES - China's auto sales shrank 5.3 percent in July from a year ago, adding to signs of economic 
malaise amid a tariff battle with Washington. Sales of electric vehicles rose by nearly half but they made up 5 
percent of the total. Demand has cooled amid forecasts of slowing economic growth after Beijing tightened lending 
controls to cool surging debt. SENT, By Joe McDonald, 342 words, photo.
BRITAIN ECONOMY - Britain's economy accelerated in the second quarter as warmer weather fueled construction 
and consumer spending after snow and ice curtailed activity in March. The Office for National Statistics said Friday 
that gross domestic product expanded by a quarterly 0.4 percent in the three months through June, compared with 
0.2 percent in the previous quarter. SENT, By Danica Kirka, 298 words.
JAPAN ECONOMY - Japan reports its economy resumed its longtime expansion in the last quarter as consumers 
and businesses stepped up spending. The preliminary data released Friday showed that trade weighed slightly on 
growth. SENT, 351 words, photos.
SKOREA NORTH KOREAN COAL - South Korea says a total of 35,000 tons of North Korean coal and pig iron 
worth $5.8 million illegally entered its ports last year, in possible violations of UN sanctions. The Korea Customs 
Service said Friday it is seeking prosecutions of three local companies and their executives for smuggling or falsely 
saying North Korean mineral resources came from Russia. Officials are also looking into whether any of the vessels 
that transported North Korean coal violated sanctions. SENT, By Youkyung Lee, 441 words, photo.
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
European ADRs Move Lower in Friday Trading
European ADRs Move Lower in Friday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
August 10, 2018 Friday 10:47 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 234 words
Body
 American Depository Receipts of European stocks were trading 1.64% lower at 135.17 on the Bank of New York 
Mellon Europe ADR Index on Friday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by furniture maker Natuzzi (NTZ), and pharmaceutical company 
Ascendis Pharma (ASND), which rose 3.5% and 1.5% respectively. They were followed by pharmaceutical firm 
Sanofi (SNY), and biopharmaceutical company Biofrontera (BFRA), which were up 0.6% and 0.4%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by bank Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA), and financial 
services firm ING Groep (ING), which fell 6.1% and 5.8% respectively. They were followed by semiconductor 
company STMicroelectronics (STM), and communications services firm VEON (VEON), which were off 5.4% and 
4.2%. 
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by biopharmaceutical companies Amarin (AMRN), and pharmaceutical 
company Motif Bio (MTFB), which were up 2.1% and 1.5% respectively They were followed by cruise line operator 
Carnival (CUK), and biotech firm Autolus Therapeutics (AUTL), which rose 1% and 0.6%.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by telecommunications provider BT Group (BT), and airline operator 
Ryanair (RYAAY), which shed 3.3% and 2.8% respectively. They were followed by Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), 
and mining company Randgold Resources (GOLD), which lost 2.5% each.
Price: 1.47, Change: +0.05, Percent Change: +3.54
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
TOP NEWS SUMMARY: Quarterly UK GDP Gains 1.3% In Line With Forecasts
TOP NEWS SUMMARY: Quarterly UK GDP Gains 1.3% In Line With Forecasts
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
August 10, 2018 Friday 6:12 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 631 words
Body
 The following is a summary of top news stories Friday.----------COMPANIES----------Sports Direct International has 
acquired 169-year-old British department store chain House of Fraser for GBP90 million in cash, saving around 
17,000 jobs. The sports clothing and equipment retailer will buy the business and assets of House of Fraser from 
administrator Ernst & Young of the company's main operating units - House of Fraser Ltd, House of Fraser (Stores) 
Ltd and James Beattie Ltd. Under the deal, Sports Direct has acquired the House of Fraser brand, all of its UK 
stores and all of the stock in the business. This came after House of Fraser was plunged into crisis following 
C.banner, the Chinese owner of Hamleys, pulling its investment into the troubled retail chain. 
C.banner was planning to buy a 51% stake in House of Fraser and plough GBP70 million into the ailing retailer, but 
scrapped the move last week.----------Nationwide Building Society said the absence of a one-off disposal gain, 
competitive market conditions and a continuing trend of borrowers switching to lower priced products resulted in a 
year-on-year drop in first quarter profit. The unlisted British mutual financial institution also that its full year outlook 
remains unchanged and that the UK economy is expected to grow at a modest pace over the next 12 months. 
Nationwide, the largest building society in the UK, recorded statutory pretax profit of GBP281 million for the three 
months to June-end, down from GBP322 million recorded a year ago, which included an exceptional gain of GBP26 
million from disposal of payment systems provider VocaLink. ----------The biggest industrial action by pilots in 
Ryanair's history got under way on Friday, with nearly 400 flights across Europe cancelled due to the 24-hour 
stoppage. The cancellations constitute about a sixth of the Irish budget airline's 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday, 
affecting some 55,000 passengers at the peak of the European holiday season. Pilots and crew are seeking new 
contracts that include better pay and working conditions. In a statement late Thursday, Ryanair said it had taken 
"every step to minimize the disruption." It called the strike "regrettable and unjustified" and called on unions to 
continue negotiations. Ryanair has only recognized pilots unions since last year, taking the step during negotiations 
to ward off a previous threat of strikes.----------News Corp, the publishing company owned by media baron Rupert 
Murdoch, reported that its fourth quarter earnings trumped Wall Street estimates, as revenue surged nearly 30% 
and surpassed expectations. The New York-based media company reported a fourth-quarter loss of USD372 
million or USD0.64 per share, compare to last year's loss of USD430 million or USD0.74 per share. Adjusted 
earnings were USD45 million or USD0.08 per share, down from USD65 million or USD0.11 per share. Analysts 
polled by Thomson Reuters expected earnings of USD0.06 per share. Revenue for the quarter rose to 29% to 
TOP NEWS SUMMARY: Quarterly UK GDP Gains 1.3% In Line With Forecasts
USD2.69 billion from USD2.08 billion last year. Analysts had a consensus revenue estimate of USD2.68 billion.------
----MARKETS----------Stocks in London were lower with Evraz the worst performer in the FTSE 100, while the pound 
traded around its worst levels since August last year despite the latest UK GDP reading coming in in line with 
expectations. Ahead, focus is on the US consumer price index at 1330 BST. Before the data, Wall Street was 
pointed to a lower open with the Dow Jones called down 0.4%.----------FTSE 100: down 0.6% at 7,693.82FTSE 250: 
down 0.3% at 20,740.62AIM ALL-SHARE: down 0.1% at 1,088.28
GBP: down at USD1.2782 (USD1.2873)EUR: down at USD1.1469 (USD1.1573)
GOLD: soft at USD1,210.30 per ounce (USD1,213.90)OIL (Brent): flat at USD72.14 a barrel (USD72.15)
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
dpa NEWS SCHEDULE for FRIDAY, AUGUST 10, 1200 GMT
dpa NEWS SCHEDULE for FRIDAY, AUGUST 10, 1200 GMT
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 10, 2018 Friday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 273 words
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the news schedule or need items repeated, please call or email the 
dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 
8065 Email: international@dpa.com
TURKEY-ECONOMY-POLITICS
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan invokes god in assuring citizens not to worry as the lira drops to record 
lows amid tensions with the United States over a pastor's imprisonment. Moving
- BACKGROUND: Keep the faith: State of Turkey's economy according to Erdogan. By Anindita Ramaswamy, 380 
words, moving by 1300
____
CANADA-CRIME
Four people have been killed in a shooting in the Canadian province of New Brunswick, police say. Moving
____
INDONESIA-EARTHQUAKE
The death toll from an earthquake that hit the popular Indonesian resort island of Lombok last weekend has risen to 
321, the country's national disaster management agency says. Moved
____
EUROPE-LABOUR-RYANAIR
dpa NEWS SCHEDULE for FRIDAY, AUGUST 10, 1200 GMT
The biggest industrial action by pilots in Ryanair's history gets under way, with nearly 400 flights across Europe 
cancelled due to the 24-hour stoppage. Moving
____
AFGHANISTAN-CONFLICT
A thousand Taliban militants have stormed the strategically important city of Ghazni, a provincial capital in eastern 
Afghanistan, killing at least 16 people. Moved
____
BRITAIN-CRIME-DIPLOMACY-RUSSIA
Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev has warned new US sanctions could be seen as a "declaration of an 
economic war." Moved
____
INDIA-WEATHER
At least 28 people have died in accidents brought on by torrential rains in India's southern state of Kerala even as 
thousands were moved to shelters, officials say. To move
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
LONDON BRIEFING: 400 Flights Hit By Biggest Strike Against Ryanair
LONDON BRIEFING: 400 Flights Hit By Biggest Strike Against Ryanair
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
August 10, 2018 Friday 2:54 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 412 words
Body
 The biggest industrial action by pilots in Ryanair Holding's history got under way on Friday, with nearly 400 flights 
across Europe cancelled due to the 24-hour stoppage.
The cancellations constitute about a sixth of the Irish budget airline's 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday, affecting 
some 55,000 passengers at the peak of the European holiday season.
Customers in Germany were the hardest hit, with 250 flights cancelled and 42,000 customers affected. Pilots in 
Belgium, Sweden, Ireland, and the Netherlands were also striking.
The affected passengers have been given the option to reschedule their flights free of charge or get their money 
back. Ryanair will not compensate passengers beyond that.
The only people not to be affected by Ryanair cancellations in Germany are those flying to and from 
Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden airport. The pilots stationed there are not participating in the strike.
The strike began in Germany at 3.01 am local time and is set to end on Saturday at 2.59 am.
Pilots and crew are seeking new contracts that include better pay and working conditions.
In a statement late Thursday, Ryanair said it had taken "every step to minimize the disruption." It called the strike 
"regrettable and unjustified" and called on unions to continue negotiations.
Ryanair has only recognized pilots unions since last year, taking the step during negotiations to ward off a previous 
threat of strikes.
However last month cabin crews in Portugal, Spain and Belgium went on strike for two days, causing the 
cancellation of 600 flights.Analysts at HSBC lowered their price target on Ryanair shares and continued to 
recommend Reduce.
LONDON BRIEFING: 400 Flights Hit By Biggest Strike Against Ryanair
Here is what you need to know at the London market open:----------MARKETS----------FTSE 100: called down 0.3%, 
24.97 points, at 7,716.80----------Hang Seng: down 0.9% at 28,341.10Nikkei 225: closed down 1.3% at 
22,298.08DJIA: closed down 0.3% at 25,509.23S&P 500: closed down 0.1% at 2,853.58----------GBP: down at 
USD1.2793 (USD1.2873)EUR: down at USD1.1462 (USD1.1573)
Gold: down at USD1,207.86 per ounce (USD1,213.90)Oil (Brent): down at USD71.88 a barrel (USD72.15)
(changes since previous London equities close)----------ECONOMICS AND GENERAL----------Friday's Key 
Economic Events still to come 
0930 BST UK first estimate of GDP for 2nd quarter; monthly GDP estimates0930 BST UK trade0930 BST UK index 
of production and index of services1400 BST UK NIESR monthly GDP Tracker
1000 CEST IEA Oil Market Report1000 CEST Italy foreign trade EU
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
European Markets Sank Due To Banking Crisis In Turkey
European Markets Sank Due To Banking Crisis In Turkey
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
August 10, 2018 Friday 12:10 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 633 words
Body
 The European markets ended Friday's session firmly in the red. Concerns over global trade and the banking crisis 
in Turkey weighed on sentiment at the end of the trading week.
The Turkish Lira nose-dived against the US dollar in the European session on Friday, plunging to an all-time low, 
following a news report that the European Central Bank has raised concerns over the impact of a weak lira on 
European banks.
The ECB is more concerned about the exposure of some banks in France, Italy and Spain to Turkey's problems, 
according to a report in the Financial Times.
Those banks are particularly BBVA of Spain, Italy's UniCredit and BNP Paribas of France.
The currency has been falling amid widening rift between the US and Turkey and intensifying worries about the 
state of the economy.
Diplomatic talks between Washington and Ankara in Washington to resolve issues appeared to break down this 
week. Both the nations were at logger-heads over the detention of American pastor Andrew Brunson in Turkey on 
terrorism charges, as well as US sanctions on Turkish ministers.
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on Thursday played down concerns over the falling currency, calling citizens to 
"ignore campaigns against Turkey."
"Don't forget, if they have their dollars, we have our people, our God. We are working hard. Look at what we were 
16 years ago and look at us now," he told supporters in the Black Sea province of Rize.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index weakened by 1.1%. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip 
stocks decreased 2.0%, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major UK companies, lost 1.2%.
The DAX of Germany dropped 2.0% and the CAC of France fell 1.6%. The FTSE 100 of the UK declined 1.0% and 
the SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 1.3%.
European Markets Sank Due To Banking Crisis In Turkey
In Frankfurt, energy group Innogy dropped 0.5% after reporting a 10% fall in first-half operating profit.
In London, budget carrier Ryanair Holdings declined 3.7% after grounding 400 flights amid a coordinated 24-hour 
workers strike.
Diageo finished marginally lower after announcing it would start buying back up to GBP1.4 billion (USD1.79 billion) 
of its shares until Jan 31.
Biotechnology firm Novozymes declined 3.3% in Copenhagen after its second-quarter results came in below 
expectations.
France's industrial and manufacturing output rebounded in June driven by a recovery in petroleum output, data from 
the statistical office Insee showed Friday. Industrial output climbed 0.6% month-on-month in June, reversing a 0.2% 
fall in May. Production was expected to gain 0.5%.
UK economic growth doubled in the second quarter driven by stronger growth in both services and construction 
sectors, first quarterly estimate from the Office for National Statistics showed Friday. Gross domestic product rose 
0.4%, faster than the 0.2% expansion seen in the first quarter. The rate came in line with expectations.
UK industrial production expanded in June after falling for three straight months, data from the Office for National 
Statistics showed Friday. Industrial production climbed 0.4% month-on-month, reversing a 0.2% fall in May. This 
was the first increase in four months. Output was expected to climb 0.3%.
The UK's visible trade deficit narrowed in June, while the surplus in services grew, leading to a smaller total trade 
gap, data from the Office for National Statistics showed Friday. The visible trade deficit decreased to GBP11.38 
billion from GBP12.52 billion in May. Economists had forecast a shortfall of GBP11.90 billion.
Consumer prices in the US showed a modest increase in the month of July, according to a report released by the 
Labor Department on Friday. The Labor Department said its consumer price index rose by 0.2% in July after 
inching up by 0.1% in June. The increase in prices matched economist estimates.
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
European Shares Tumble As Lira Crisis Spreads
European Shares Tumble As Lira Crisis Spreads
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
August 10, 2018 Friday 6:36 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 339 words
Body
 European stocks fell sharply on Friday as a banking crisis in Turkey coupled with lingering worries over a trade war 
between the world's two biggest economies dent demand for riskier assets.
The Turkish lira tumbled more than 14% in early trade to hit a new low amid a deepening rift with the US and 
intensifying worries about the state of the economy.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index was down 0.9% at 386.37 in late opening deals after closing up 0.1% 
on Thursday.
The German DAX was down as much as 1.7%, France's CAC 40 index was losing 1.3% and the UK's FTSE 100 
was declining 0.7%.
Spanish lender BBVA slumped 4.2% and Italy's UniCredit tumbled 3.4% on worries about the contagion effects of a 
dramatic fall in the Turkish lira.
Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas lost 2-4% after the European Bank reportedly expressed 
concerns over the impact of a weak Turkish lira on European banks.
Miners Anglo American, Antofagasta and Glencore were down about 2% while energy firms BP PLC, Tullow Oil and 
Total SA fell between 0.7% and 1.5%.
Biotechnology firm Novozymes declined 2.8% after its second-quarter results came in below expectations.
Budget carrier Ryanair Holdings declined 1.8% after grounding 400 flights amid a coordinated 24-hour workers 
strike.
Diageo was little changed after announcing it would start buying back up to 1.4 billion pounds ($1.79 billion) of its 
shares until Jan. 31.
European Shares Tumble As Lira Crisis Spreads
In economic releases, UK economic growth doubled in the second quarter driven by stronger growth in both 
services and construction sectors, first quarterly estimate from the Office for National Statistics showed.
Gross domestic product rose 0.4%, matching expectations and faster than the 0.2% expansion seen in the first 
quarter.
UK industrial production also expanded in June after falling for three straight months. Output climbed 0.4% month-
on-month, reversing a 0.2% fall in May. This marked the first increase in four months.
France's industrial and manufacturing output rebounded in June, driven by a recovery in petroleum output.
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair struggles with widespread strike action
Ryanair struggles with widespread strike action
Business World (Digest)
August 10, 2018 Friday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 641 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair faced its worst one-day strike on Friday after a walk-out by pilots in five European countries disrupted the 
plans of an estimated 55,000 travelers with the budget airline at the height of the summer holiday season.
Ryanair, which averted widespread strikes before last Christmas by agreeing to recognize unions for the first time in 
its 30-year history, has been unable to quell rising protests over slow progress in negotiating collective labor 
agreements.
In response to unions serving strike notices, Ryanair had announced the cancellations in recent days of 250 flights 
in and out of Germany, 104 to and from Belgium and another 42 in Sweden and its home market of Ireland, where 
around a quarter of its pilots were staging their fifth 24-hour walkout.
The airline expected the travel plans of 42,000 travelers to be hit by the action in Germany alone, with the majority 
of passengers switched to another Ryanair flight and the remainder either refunded or rerouted.
"What I find unjustified is that the pilots draw the short straw, because people want to fly cheaply," said Daniel 
Flamman, one of several passengers Reuters spoke to at Frankfurt airport who said they sympathized with the 
pilots.
"It's annoying that it's happening in the summer holidays, but it's the only means they have."
Ingolf Schumacher, pay negotiator at Germany's Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) union, said pilots had to be prepared for 
"a very long battle" and that it could take months to push through change at Europe's largest low-cost carrier.
Ryanair struggles with widespread strike action
The unrest is one of the biggest challenges to face long-term chief executive Michael O'Leary, who was once 
quoted as saying he would rather cut off his hand than recognize unions and on another occasion crossed a picket 
line of baggage handlers to help load a plane.
The outspoken O'Leary has in recent years tried to soften Ryanair's abrasive public image, fearing it could be 
counter-productive for Europe's most profitable airline.
The strike topped the 300 flights a day Ryanair had to cancel last month when cabin crews in Belgium, Portugal and 
Spain went on strike for 48 hours.
A Dutch court also rejected a case from Ryanair seeking to block pilots in the Netherlands from joining Friday's 
strike, but the Irish airline said all of its flights there would run as scheduled.
Shares in the airline were 1.4 percent lower at 13.36 euros by 0825 GMT, having fallen 18 percent since the action 
ramped up in mid-July to stand well below the 14.21 euros they slumped to in December when Ryanair shocked 
markets by recognizing unions.
Ryanair operates more than 2,000 flights a day, serving 223 airports across 37 countries in Europe and North 
Africa, and insists it will not change the low-cost model that transformed the industry and has made it Europe's most 
profitable airline.
At Charleroi Airport, Belgium's second largest and a major Ryanair hub in the region, striking staff gathered in the 
departure hall and held up banners reading "Ryanair must change- Respect us."
"Ryanair is the only multinational in Belgium that doesn't respect the Belgian law and that's not normal," said Didier 
Lebbe, a representative of union ACV-CSC, whose demands include securing its pilots pay when they are on 
stand-by.
Apologizing to customers, Ryanair said in a statement that it took every step to minimize the disruption and called 
on striking unions to continue negotiations instead of calling any more "unjustified strikes."
It has further angered unions by threatening to move jobs away from bases affected by the stoppages, and began 
carrying that out in Dublin where it cut its winter fleet by 20% and put over 300 employees on preliminary notice.
Ryanair has said that strike action will hit average fares because it takes up seats that it could otherwise have sold 
at a high last-minute price. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 6, 2018
End of Document
FTSE 100 Retreats As Miners Drag
FTSE 100 Retreats As Miners Drag
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 10, 2018 Friday 12:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 317 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - U.K. stocks fell on Friday as a fresh turmoil in Turkey as well as 
renewed fears of a trade war between the U.S. and China overshadowed upbeat GDP data for the second quarter.   
U.K. economic growth doubled in the second quarter driven by stronger growth in both services and construction 
sectors, first quarterly estimate from the Office for National Statistics showed.  Gross domestic product rose 0.4 
percent, matching expectations and faster than the 0.2 percent expansion seen in the first quarter. 
  U.K. industrial production also expanded in June after falling for three straight months. Output climbed 0.4 percent 
month-on-month, reversing a 0.2 percent fall in May. This marked the first increase in four months.   The 
benchmark FTSE 100 was down 57 points or 0.73 percent at 7,685 in late opening deals after declining half a 
percent on Thursday.   The pound held steady after reports that EU states are willing to grant major concession in 
Brexit deal following Theresa May's Chequers plan.   In addition, a survey found more people back a second Brexit 
referendum, if talks with Brussels break down.  Lender Barclays dropped 1 percent and Lloyds Banking Group shed 
half a percent on worries about the contagion effects of a dramatic fall in the Turkish lira, which fell more than 14 
percent in early trade to hit a new low amid a deepening rift with the United States and intensifying worries about 
the state of the economy.  Miners Anglo American, Antofagasta and Glencore were down about 2 percent while 
energy firms BP Plc and Tullow Oil dropped around 0.7 percent each.   Budget carrier Ryanair Holdings declined 
1.8 percent after grounding 400 flights amid a coordinated 24-hour workers strike.  Diageo was little changed after 
announcing it would start buying back up to  1.4 billion pounds ($1.79 billion) of its shares until Jan. 31.      
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
40 pilots in Sweden strike, Dutch flights continue
40 pilots in Sweden strike, Dutch flights continue
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 10, 2018 Friday 11:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 238 words
Byline: Lennart Simonsson in Lahti, Finland, and Annette Birschel in Amsterdam.
Dateline: Stockholm (dpa) - 
Body
About 40 Ryanair pilots in Sweden went on strike on Friday, the Swedish pilots' union (SPF) said.
"Today our members are on strike to demand their rights," SPF head Martin Lindgren said in a statement.
The union said it wanted its members to have basic labour rights, and the right to select its representatives in talks 
with Ryanair.
In the Netherlands, however, no flights were cancelled despite the decision of Dutch pilots to strike, Ryanair 
announced on Friday. The discount airline has hired non-striking foreign pilots as substitutes.
To date, the 24-hour stoppage also affects pilots in Belgium, Germany and Ireland.
As far as the strike's impact in Sweden is concerned, Ryanair cancelled 22 flights to and from Sweden.
The strike action affected most of Ryanair's flights to and from the regional Skvasta airport, about 100 kilometres 
south of Stockholm.
Skavsta airport was prepared to assist passengers affected by the strike, but so far only "a handful" have turned up 
and they "were easily accommodated," Skavsta airport managing director Peter Steinmetz told dpa.
The strike has been "well communicated," he added.
Ryanair had a late evening flight from Skavsta to London Stansted as well as one flight to Naples, Italy, that were 
not affected by Friday's labour action.
Ryanair said it had informed passengers affected by the cancellations.
40 pilots in Sweden strike, Dutch flights continue
Editorial contactsEditing by: Bill Heaney, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
40 pilots in Sweden strike, Dutch flights continue
40 pilots in Sweden strike, Dutch flights continue
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 10, 2018 Friday 10:23 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 240 words
Body
       By Lennart Simonsson, dpa   STOCKHOLM (dpa-AFX) - About 40 Ryanair pilots in Sweden went on strike on 
Friday, the Swedish pilots' union (SPF) said.  'Today our members are on strike to demand their rights,' SPF head 
Martin Lindgren said in a statement. 
 The union said it wanted its members to have basic labour rights, and the right to select its representatives in talks 
with Ryanair.  In the Netherlands, however, no flights were cancelled despite the decision of Dutch pilots to strike, 
Ryanair announced on Friday. The discount airline has hired non-striking foreign pilots as substitutes.   To date, the 
24-hour stoppage also affects pilots in Belgium, Germany and Ireland.  As far as the strike's impact in Sweden is 
concerned, Ryanair cancelled 22 flights to and from Sweden.  The strike action affected most of Ryanair's flights to 
and from the regional Skvasta airport, about 100 kilometres south of Stockholm.  Skavsta airport was prepared to 
assist passengers affected by the strike, but so far only 'a handful' have turned up and they 'were easily 
accommodated,' Skavsta airport managing director Peter Steinmetz told dpa.  The strike has been 'well 
communicated,' he added.  Ryanair had a late evening flight from Skavsta to London Stansted as well as one flight 
to Naples, Italy, that were not affected by Friday's labour action.  Ryanair said it had informed passengers affected 
by the cancellations.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
40 pilots in Sweden strike, Dutch flights continue
40 pilots in Sweden strike, Dutch flights continue
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 10, 2018 Friday 11:13 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 240 words
Body
       By Lennart Simonsson, dpa   STOCKHOLM (dpa-AFX) - About 40 Ryanair pilots in Sweden went on strike on 
Friday, the Swedish pilots' union (SPF) said.  'Today our members are on strike to demand their rights,' SPF head 
Martin Lindgren said in a statement. 
 The union said it wanted its members to have basic labour rights, and the right to select its representatives in talks 
with Ryanair.  In the Netherlands, however, no flights were cancelled despite the decision of Dutch pilots to strike, 
Ryanair announced on Friday. The discount airline has hired non-striking foreign pilots as substitutes.   To date, the 
24-hour stoppage also affects pilots in Belgium, Germany and Ireland.  As far as the strike's impact in Sweden is 
concerned, Ryanair cancelled 22 flights to and from Sweden.  The strike action affected most of Ryanair's flights to 
and from the regional Skvasta airport, about 100 kilometres south of Stockholm.  Skavsta airport was prepared to 
assist passengers affected by the strike, but so far only 'a handful' have turned up and they 'were easily 
accommodated,' Skavsta airport managing director Peter Steinmetz told dpa.  The strike has been 'well 
communicated,' he added.  Ryanair had a late evening flight from Skavsta to London Stansted as well as one flight 
to Naples, Italy, that were not affected by Friday's labour action.  Ryanair said it had informed passengers affected 
by the cancellations.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
European Markets Sank Due To Banking Crisis In Turkey
European Markets Sank Due To Banking Crisis In Turkey
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 10, 2018 Friday 5:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 677 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - The European markets ended Friday's session firmly in the red. 
Concerns over global trade and the banking crisis in Turkey weighed on sentiment at the end of the trading week.  
The Turkish Lira nose-dived against the U.S. dollar in the European session on Friday, plunging to an all-time low, 
following a news report that the European Central Bank has raised concerns over the impact of a weak lira on 
European banks.  The ECB is more concerned about the exposure of some banks in France, Italy and Spain to 
Turkey's problems, according to a report in the Financial Times. 
 Those banks are particularly BBVA of Spain, Italy's UniCredit and BNP Paribas of France.  The currency has been 
falling amid widening rift between the US and Turkey and intensifying worries about the state of the economy.   
Diplomatic talks between Washington and Ankara in Washington to resolve issues appeared to break down this 
week. Both the nations were at logger-heads over the detention of American pastor Andrew Brunson in Turkey on 
terrorism charges, as well as U.S. sanctions on Turkish ministers.  Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on Thursday 
played down concerns over the falling currency, calling citizens to 'ignore campaigns against Turkey.'   'Don't forget, 
if they have their dollars, we have our people, our God. We are working hard. Look at what we were 16 years ago 
and look at us now,' he told supporters in the Black Sea province of Rize.  The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 
index weakened by 1.07 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks decreased 1.97 percent, 
while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major U.K. companies, lost 1.19 percent.  The DAX of 
Germany dropped 1.99 percent and the CAC of France fell 1.59 percent. The FTSE 100 of the U.K. declined 0.97 
percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 1.25 percent.  In Frankfurt, energy group Innogy dropped 0.48 
percent after reporting a 10 percent fall in first-half operating profit.  In London, budget carrier Ryanair Holdings 
declined 3.71 percent after grounding 400 flights amid a coordinated 24-hour workers strike.  Diageo finished lower 
by 0.04 percent after announcing it would start buying back up to 1.4 billion pounds ($1.79 billion) of its shares until 
Jan. 31.  Biotechnology firm Novozymes declined 3.31 percent in Copenhagen after its second-quarter results 
came in below expectations.  France's industrial and manufacturing output rebounded in June driven by a recovery 
in petroleum output, data from the statistical office Insee showed Friday. Industrial output climbed 0.6 percent 
month-on-month in June, reversing a 0.2 percent fall in May. Production was expected to gain 0.5 percent.  UK 
economic growth doubled in the second quarter driven by stronger growth in both services and construction 
European Markets Sank Due To Banking Crisis In Turkey
sectors, first quarterly estimate from the Office for National Statistics showed Friday. Gross domestic product rose 
0.4 percent, faster than the 0.2 percent expansion seen in the first quarter. The rate came in line with expectations.  
UK industrial production expanded in June after falling for three straight months, data from the Office for National 
Statistics showed Friday. Industrial production climbed 0.4 percent month-on-month, reversing a 0.2 percent fall in 
May. This was the first increase in four months. Output was expected to climb 0.3 percent.  The UK's visible trade 
deficit narrowed in June, while the surplus in services grew, leading to a smaller total trade gap, data from the 
Office for National Statistics showed Friday. The visible trade deficit decreased to GBP 11.38 billion from GBP 
12.52 billion in May. Economists had forecast a shortfall of GBP 11.90 billion.  Consumer prices in the U.S. showed 
a modest increase in the month of July, according to a report released by the Labor Department on Friday. The 
Labor Department said its consumer price index rose by 0.2 percent in July after inching up by 0.1 percent in June. 
The increase in prices matched economist estimates.      
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
European Shares Tumble As Lira Crisis Spreads
European Shares Tumble As Lira Crisis Spreads
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 10, 2018 Friday 12:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 376 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - European stocks fell sharply on Friday as a banking crisis in 
Turkey coupled with lingering worries over a trade war between the world's two biggest economies dent demand for 
riskier assets.  The Turkish lira tumbled more than 14 percent in early trade to hit a new low amid a deepening rift 
with the United States and intensifying worries about the state of the economy.  The pan-European Stoxx Europe 
600 index was down 0.9 percent at 386.37 in late opening deals after closing up 0.1 percent on Thursday. 
  The German DAX was down as much as 1.7 percent, France's CAC 40 index was losing 1.3 percent and the 
U.K.'s FTSE 100 was declining 0.7 percent.   Spanish lender BBVA slumped 4.2 percent and Italy's UniCredit 
tumbled 3.4 percent on worries about the contagion effects of a dramatic fall in the Turkish lira.  Commerzbank, 
Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas lost 2-4 percent after the European Bank reportedly expressed concerns over the 
impact of a weak Turkish lira on European banks.  Miners Anglo American, Antofagasta and Glencore were down 
about 2 percent while energy firms BP Plc, Tullow Oil and Total SA fell between 0.7 percent and 1.5 percent.   
Biotechnology firm Novozymes declined 2.8 percent after its second-quarter results came in below expectations.   
Budget carrier Ryanair Holdings declined 1.8 percent after grounding 400 flights amid a coordinated 24-hour 
workers strike.  Diageo was little changed after announcing it would start buying back up to 1.4 billion pounds 
($1.79 billion) of its shares until Jan. 31.  In economic releases, U.K. economic growth doubled in the second 
quarter driven by stronger growth in both services and construction sectors, first quarterly estimate from the Office 
for National Statistics showed.  Gross domestic product rose 0.4 percent, matching expectations and faster than the 
0.2 percent expansion seen in the first quarter.  U.K. industrial production also expanded in June after falling for 
three straight months. Output climbed 0.4 percent month-on-month, reversing a 0.2 percent fall in May. This marked 
the first increase in four months.  France's industrial and manufacturing output rebounded in June, driven by a 
recovery in petroleum output.      
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
European Shares Tumble As Lira Crisis Spreads
End of Document
ANALYSIS: Ryanair endures organised chaos after clash with pilots Michael O'Leary's landmark move at the 
end of last year to open the door to union recognition ....
ANALYSIS: Ryanair endures organised chaos after clash with pilots; Michael 
O'Leary's landmark move at the end of last year to open the door to union 
recognition at Ryanair was aimed at settling simmering labour unrest. But a 
summer of disruption, in part the result of industrial action by pockets of its 
staff around Europe, illustrates the scope of challenges faced by the Irish 
low-cost carrier.
Flight International
August 10, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 812 words
Body
Michael O'Leary's landmark move at the end of last year to open the door to union recognition at Ryanair was 
aimed at settling simmering labour unrest. But a summer of disruption, in part the result of industrial action by 
pockets of its staff around Europe, illustrates the scope of challenges faced by the Irish low-cost carrier.
In July, it was forced to cancel 300 flights as a result of strike action by cabin crew in Belgium, Portugal and Spain, 
although it played down the impact of action by Italian staff.
More cancellations have followed on 10 August with a round of fresh stoppages from staff in Ireland, Germany, 
Belgium, Sweden and the Netherlands. The Irish carrier expects to operate around 85% of its schedule today, and 
said that a walkout by Dutch pilots would cause no cancellations. The airline earlier said that 250 of its flights to 
Germany on 10 August would be cancelled as a result of the strike by pilots represented by Vereinigung Cockpit.
Labour pressures have been exerting on the pan-European low-cost giant for nearly a year since it was obliged to 
cancel a wave of flights when the scale of its pilot-rostering problems fully emerged. Amid the cancellations 
backlash that followed, pilot unions pushed for better terms and sought to advance their long-held aspirations of 
securing recognition at the carrier.
Ryanair initially countered by offering flightcrew improved pay and conditions. Ultimately, though, the airline opted 
to drop its steadfastly held position against union recognition at the end of 2017, amid the threat of planned strike 
action wrecking its Christmas schedules.
ANALYSIS: Ryanair endures organised chaos after clash with pilots Michael O'Leary's landmark move at the 
end of last year to open the door to union recognition ....
It has since held recognition talks, and struck deals with a number of pilot and cabin crew unions across several of 
its European bases. Most recently, that has included recognition agreements with the Italian union FIT-CISL – 
which joins ANPAC and ANPAV as a joint negotiating body for the low-cost carrier’s directly employed cabin crew in 
Italy – and German cabin crew union Verdi.
In its first-quarter results presentation on 23 July, the carrier said 45% of its pilots and around two-thirds of its cabin 
crew are now covered by union agreements, and that 90% of its pilots had agreed 20% pay increases this year.
Amid this progress though, the scope and pan-European nature of Ryanair – the airline has 86 bases across a 
range of countries – mean that there remain plenty of challenges. While the airline is able to point to still operating 
over 2,000 flights carrying around 400,000 passengers on 10 August, amid the widespread industrial action, that 
still leaves in the region of around 400 flights cancelled and the related disruption and negative publicity.
That publicity has been heightened by unions bringing their disparate disputes with the airline – which span the 
issues of pay and base-transfer arrangements, plus demands to be covered by local employment rules – together 
on the same day.
Some of Ryanair's highest-profile labour challenges have been in Ireland, where Ryanair pilots represented by Irish 
union IALPA staged their fifth strike in a month on 10 August.
Trade union Forsa, of which IALPA forms part, says it is seeking a "fair and transparent approach to base 
transfers", and in its 2 August statement complained that Ryanair management had agreed to just two hours of 
talks since the first strike.
The airline on 25 July had warned that it was planning to reassign Dublin-based aircraft to a Polish subsidiary, 
potentially making 300 crew members, including 100 pilots, redundant. That came days after Ryanair warned that it 
was not prepared to "concede to unreasonable demands that will compromise either our low fares or our highly 
efficient model", noting that if these strikes continued to damage customer confidence, forward prices and yields in 
certain country markets, it would have to review its winter schedule.
Ryanair did, however, on 3 August propose mediation in its dispute with its Irish flightcrew, a move Forsa welcomed 
as a "positive development".
The precise impact of the labour challenges for Ryanair is still to become clear. The carrier was forced to cancel 
around 1,000 flights in July, which it attributes to air traffic control stoppages – an issue it continues to highlight 
proactively – and weather disruption, as well as industrial action at the airline. Ryanair still increased passenger 
numbers 4% in July to over 13 million. But that is below its rolling annual passenger growth rate of 7%.
On the financial side, it had in May said that its non-fuel unit costs for the year to March 2019 would rise by up to 
6% as a result of higher salaries for cockpit and cabin crew. It projected a slight fall in full-year net profit to between 
1.25-1.35 billion ($1.44-1.56 billion), and this guidance was left unchanged after the first quarter, with the airline 
saying that the strikes damage yields but not traffic.
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
Biggest strike in Ryanair 's history begins
Biggest strike in Ryanair's history begins
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 10, 2018 Friday 7:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 269 words
Byline: Christian Ebner in Frankfurt
Dateline: Amsterdam (dpa) - 
Body
The biggest industrial action by pilots in Ryanair's history got under way on Friday, with nearly 400 flights across 
Europe cancelled due to the 24-hour stoppage.
The cancellations constitute about a sixth of the Irish budget airline's 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday, affecting 
some 55,000 passengers at the peak of the European holiday season.
Customers in Germany were the hardest hit, with 250 flights cancelled and 42,000 customers affected. Pilots in 
Belgium, Sweden, Ireland, and the Netherlands were also striking.
The affected passengers have been given the option to reschedule their flights free of charge or get their money 
back. Ryanair will not compensate passengers beyond that.
The only people not to be affected by Ryanair cancellations in Germany are those flying to and from 
Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden airport. The pilots stationed there are not participating in the strike.
The strike began in Germany at 3.01 am (0101 GMT) and is set to end on Saturday at 2.59 am.
Pilots and crew are seeking new contracts that include better pay and working conditions.
In a statement late Thursday, Ryanair said it had taken "every step to minimize the disruption." It called the strike 
"regrettable and unjustified" and called on unions to continue negotiations.
Ryanair has only recognized pilots unions since last year, taking the step during negotiations to ward off a previous 
threat of strikes.
Biggest strike in Ryanair 's history begins
However last month cabin crews in Portugal, Spain and Belgium went on strike for two days, causing the 
cancellation of 600 flights.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Helen Livingstone, +61 2 9322 8065, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
Biggest strike in Ryanair 's history begins
Biggest strike in Ryanair's history begins
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 10, 2018 Friday 7:57 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 270 words
Body
       By Christian Ebner, dpa   AMSTERDAM (dpa-AFX) - The biggest industrial action by pilots in Ryanair's history 
got under way on Friday, with nearly 400 flights across Europe cancelled due to the 24-hour stoppage.  The 
cancellations constitute about a sixth of the Irish budget airline's 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday, affecting some 
55,000 passengers at the peak of the European holiday season. 
 Customers in Germany were the hardest hit, with 250 flights cancelled and 42,000 customers affected. Pilots in 
Belgium, Sweden, Ireland, and the Netherlands were also striking.   The affected passengers have been given the 
option to reschedule their flights free of charge or get their money back. Ryanair will not compensate passengers 
beyond that.  The only people not to be affected by Ryanair cancellations in Germany are those flying to and from 
Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden airport. The pilots stationed there are not participating in the strike.  The strike began in 
Germany at 3.01 am (0101 GMT) and is set to end on Saturday at 2.59 am.  Pilots and crew are seeking new 
contracts that include better pay and working conditions.  In a statement late Thursday, Ryanair said it had taken 
'every step to minimize the disruption.' It called the strike 'regrettable and unjustified' and called on unions to 
continue negotiations.  Ryanair has only recognized pilots unions since last year, taking the step during negotiations 
to ward off a previous threat of strikes.  However last month cabin crews in Portugal, Spain and Belgium went on 
strike for two days, causing the cancellation of 600 flights.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
Flights axed across Europe in biggest strike in Ryanair's history
Flights axed across Europe in biggest strike in Ryanair's history
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 10, 2018 Friday 11:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 360 words
Byline: Christian Ebner in Frankfurt, Lennart Simonsson in Lahti, Finland, and Annette Birschel in Amsterdam.
Dateline: Amsterdam (dpa) - 
Body
The biggest industrial action by pilots in Ryanair's history got under way on Friday, with nearly 400 flights across 
Europe cancelled due to the 24-hour stoppage.
The cancellations constitute about a sixth of the Irish budget airline's 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday, affecting 
some 55,000 passengers at the peak of the European holiday season.
The strike began at 3:01 am (0101 GMT) and is set to end on Saturday at 2:59 am.
Customers in Germany were the hardest hit, with 250 flights cancelled and 42,000 customers affected. On Friday, 
the German pilots union confirmed it intends to end its strike on Saturday as planned.
Pilots in Belgium, Sweden, Ireland, and the Netherlands were also striking.
According to the Swedish pilots' union (SPF), about 40 pilots there are on strike. Ryanair cancelled 22 flights to and 
from Sweden, with most being flights to and from the regional Skvasta airport, about 100 kilometres south of 
Stockholm.
In the Netherlands, however, no flights were cancelled despite the decision of Dutch pilots to strike, Ryanair 
announced on Friday. The discount airline has hired non-striking foreign pilots as substitutes.
Across the affected countries, passengers have been given the option to reschedule their flights free of charge or 
get their money back. Ryanair will not compensate passengers beyond that.
The only people not to be affected by Ryanair cancellations in Germany are those flying to and from 
Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden airport. The pilots stationed there are not participating in the strike.
Flights axed across Europe in biggest strike in Ryanair's history
Pilots and crew are seeking new contracts that include better pay and working conditions.
In a statement late Thursday, Ryanair said it had taken "every step to minimize the disruption." It called the strike 
"regrettable and unjustified" and called on unions to continue negotiations.
Ryanair has only recognized pilots unions since last year, taking the step during negotiations to ward off a previous 
threat of strikes.
However last month cabin crews in Portugal, Spain and Belgium went on strike for two days, causing the 
cancellation of 600 flights.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Rachel More, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
Flights axed across Europe in biggest strike in Ryanair 's history
Flights axed across Europe in biggest strike in Ryanair's history
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 10, 2018 Friday 4:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 404 words
Byline: Christian Ebner in Frankfurt, Lennart Simonsson in Lahti, Finland, and Annette Birschel in Amsterdam
Dateline: Amsterdam (dpa) - 
Body
The biggest industrial action by pilots in Ryanair's history got under way on Friday, with nearly 400 flights across 
Europe cancelled due to the 24-hour stoppage that includes pilots in Germany, Sweden, Ireland, Belgium and the 
Netherlands.
The cancellations constitute about a sixth of the Irish budget airline's 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday, affecting 
some 55,000 passengers at the peak of the European holiday season.
The strike began at 3:01 am (0101 GMT) and is set to end on Saturday at 2:59 am.
Customers in Germany were the hardest hit, with 250 flights cancelled and 42,000 customers affected. There was 
no travel chaos at German airports, however, as passengers were notified two days in advance.
German pilots' union Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) said it was satisfied with the impact of the strike, adding: "We hope 
that Ryanair has understood our signal and is now willing to engage in serious negotiations."
According to the Swedish pilots' union (SPF), about 40 pilots were on strike. Ryanair cancelled 22 flights to and 
from Sweden, with most being flights to and from the regional Skvasta airport, about 100 kilometres south of 
Stockholm.
In the Netherlands, no flights were cancelled despite the decision of Dutch pilots to strike, Ryanair said on Friday, 
adding that it had hired substitutes.
A Dutch court failed to grant Ryanair's request for an injunction against the strike late Thursday.
Across the affected countries, passengers have been given the option to reschedule their flights free of charge or 
get their money back. Ryanair will not compensate passengers beyond that.
Flights axed across Europe in biggest strike in Ryanair 's history
The only people not to be affected by Ryanair cancellations in Germany are those flying to and from 
Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden airport. The pilots stationed there are not participating in the strike.
Pilots and crew are seeking new contracts that include better pay and working conditions.
In a statement late Thursday, Ryanair said it had taken "every step to minimize the disruption." It called the strike 
"regrettable and unjustified" and called on unions to continue negotiations.
Ryanair has only recognized pilots' unions since last year, taking the step during negotiations to ward off a previous 
threat of strikes.
However last month cabin crews in Portugal, Spain and Belgium went on strike for two days, causing the 
cancellation of 600 flights.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Friederike Heine, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
Flights axed across Europe in biggest strike in Ryanair 's history
Flights axed across Europe in biggest strike in Ryanair's history
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 10, 2018 Friday 11:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 362 words
Body
       By Christian Ebner, dpa   AMSTERDAM (dpa-AFX) - The biggest industrial action by pilots in Ryanair's history 
got under way on Friday, with nearly 400 flights across Europe cancelled due to the 24-hour stoppage.  The 
cancellations constitute about a sixth of the Irish budget airline's 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday, affecting some 
55,000 passengers at the peak of the European holiday season.  The strike began at 3:01 am (0101 GMT) and is 
set to end on Saturday at 2:59 am. 
 Customers in Germany were the hardest hit, with 250 flights cancelled and 42,000 customers affected. On Friday, 
the German pilots union confirmed it intends to end its strike on Saturday as planned.  Pilots in Belgium, Sweden, 
Ireland, and the Netherlands were also striking.   According to the Swedish pilots' union (SPF), about 40 pilots there 
are on strike. Ryanair cancelled 22 flights to and from Sweden, with most being flights to and from the regional 
Skvasta airport, about 100 kilometres south of Stockholm.   In the Netherlands, however, no flights were cancelled 
despite the decision of Dutch pilots to strike, Ryanair announced on Friday. The discount airline has hired non-
striking foreign pilots as substitutes.  Across the affected countries, passengers have been given the option to 
reschedule their flights free of charge or get their money back. Ryanair will not compensate passengers beyond 
that.  The only people not to be affected by Ryanair cancellations in Germany are those flying to and from 
Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden airport. The pilots stationed there are not participating in the strike.  Pilots and crew are 
seeking new contracts that include better pay and working conditions.  In a statement late Thursday, Ryanair said it 
had taken 'every step to minimize the disruption.' It called the strike 'regrettable and unjustified' and called on 
unions to continue negotiations.  Ryanair has only recognized pilots unions since last year, taking the step during 
negotiations to ward off a previous threat of strikes.  However last month cabin crews in Portugal, Spain and 
Belgium went on strike for two days, causing the cancellation of 600 flights.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
Flights axed across Europe in biggest strike in Ryanair's history
Flights axed across Europe in biggest strike in Ryanair's history
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 10, 2018 Friday 4:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 406 words
Body
       By Christian Ebner, dpa   AMSTERDAM (dpa-AFX) - The biggest industrial action by pilots in Ryanair's history 
got under way on Friday, with nearly 400 flights across Europe cancelled due to the 24-hour stoppage that includes 
pilots in Germany, Sweden, Ireland, Belgium and the Netherlands.  The cancellations constitute about a sixth of the 
Irish budget airline's 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday, affecting some 55,000 passengers at the peak of the 
European holiday season.  The strike began at 3:01 am (0101 GMT) and is set to end on Saturday at 2:59 am. 
 Customers in Germany were the hardest hit, with 250 flights cancelled and 42,000 customers affected. There was 
no travel chaos at German airports, however, as passengers were notified two days in advance.  German pilots' 
union Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) said it was satisfied with the impact of the strike, adding: 'We hope that Ryanair has 
understood our signal and is now willing to engage in serious negotiations.'  According to the Swedish pilots' union 
(SPF), about 40 pilots were on strike. Ryanair cancelled 22 flights to and from Sweden, with most being flights to 
and from the regional Skvasta airport, about 100 kilometres south of Stockholm.   In the Netherlands, no flights 
were cancelled despite the decision of Dutch pilots to strike, Ryanair said on Friday, adding that it had hired 
substitutes.  A Dutch court failed to grant Ryanair's request for an injunction against the strike late Thursday.  
Across the affected countries, passengers have been given the option to reschedule their flights free of charge or 
get their money back. Ryanair will not compensate passengers beyond that.  The only people not to be affected by 
Ryanair cancellations in Germany are those flying to and from Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden airport. The pilots stationed 
there are not participating in the strike.  Pilots and crew are seeking new contracts that include better pay and 
working conditions.  In a statement late Thursday, Ryanair said it had taken 'every step to minimize the disruption.' 
It called the strike 'regrettable and unjustified' and called on unions to continue negotiations.  Ryanair has only 
recognized pilots' unions since last year, taking the step during negotiations to ward off a previous threat of strikes.  
However last month cabin crews in Portugal, Spain and Belgium went on strike for two days, causing the 
cancellation of 600 flights.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
Flights axed across Europe in biggest strike in Ryanair's history
End of Document
Volotea warned over Italian flight disruption Italy 's civil aviation authority has warned Volotea that it could be 
blocked from operating within the country if....
Volotea warned over Italian flight disruption; Italy's civil aviation authority 
has warned Volotea that it could be blocked from operating within the 
country if its flight schedules continue to be disrupted.
Flight International
August 10, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 322 words
Body
Italy's civil aviation authority has warned Volotea that it could be blocked from operating within the country if its flight 
schedules continue to be disrupted.
ENAC says its director general Alessio Quaranta has written to the Spanish budget carrier to highlight "numerous 
critical issues" during the summer, including flight cancellations, overbooking and "long delays" that have caused 
inconvenience to passengers and disruption at Italian airports.
Volotea is being urged by ENAC to take "immediate corrective action".
Failure to resolve the issues would prompt ENAC to suspend Volotea's permission to operate in Italy from 15 
September.
ENAC also says that it is investigating "numerous" reports that the Barcelona-based carrier has failed to comply 
with EU regulation 261. The authority says that if these reports are verified it will seek to impose the "maximum 
penalty".
Responding to ENAC's statement, Volotea argues that, despite the "adverse" impact of ATC delays in Europe this 
year, it has maintained an above-average punctuality ratio and a cancellation rate "among the lowest in the 
industry".
It adds: "As for all airlines, it is not always possible to avoid disruptions when ATC and other external factors affect 
network capacity and scheduled operations. Volotea co-ordinates client assistance with subsequent flights, 
agreements with associated airlines, alternative transportation means and hospitality when needed.
"Volotea always does its best to ensure that passengers are properly assisted and informed at all times."
Volotea warned over Italian flight disruption Italy 's civil aviation authority has warned Volotea that it could be 
blocked from operating within the country if....
Earlier this month, ENAC disclosed that it was investigating the operations of Blue Panorama, Ryanair, Volotea and 
Vueling following disruption this summer.
On 19 July, ENAC revoked TACV's authorisation to operate within Italy, citing the inconveniencing of passengers 
flying between the country and Cape Verde with the African state's flag carrier. But the authorisation was reinstated 
a day later.
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Cancels 396 Flights Amid Strike; To Operate 85% Of Schedule; Stock Dips
Ryanair Cancels 396 Flights Amid Strike; To Operate 85% Of Schedule; 
Stock Dips
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 10, 2018 Friday 12:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 126 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish low-cost airline  Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY), which is struggling with ongoing pilot and 
cabin crew strikes, canceled around 396 flights on Friday because of pilot strikes in five countries. In London, 
Ryanair shares were losing around 2 percent.  Ryanair pilots in Ireland, Germany, Sweden, Belgium and the 
Netherlands are staging a walkout over pay and conditions.  In a Twitter post, the company noted that despite the 
strike action in 5 out of 37 markets, all 370 first wave aircraft departed on schedule. Over 2,000 Ryanair flights, 
representing 85 percent of schedule, will operate as normal, carrying almost 400,000 customers across Europe.  In 
London, Ryanair shares were trading at 13.16 euros, down 2.41 percent.      
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
German pilots to join biggest strike in Ryanair 's history
German pilots to join biggest strike in Ryanair's history
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 10, 2018 Friday 2:10 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 199 words
Byline: Christian Ebner in Frankfurt
Dateline: Amsterdam (dpa) - 
Body
German Ryanair pilots are set to join the biggest industrial action by pilots in the budget airline's history on Friday.
Nearly 400 flights across Europe have been cancelled in anticipation of the 24-hour stoppage, which will also 
include pilots in Belgium, Sweden, Ireland, and The Netherlands.
The cancellations constitute about a sixth of Ryanair's 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday, affecting some 55,000 
passengers.
Most of those affected - about 42,000 - will be in Germany, where strike action begins at 03:01 am (0101 GMT) and 
comes at the height of the summer holiday season.
The affected passengers have been given the option to reschedule their flights free of charge or get their money 
back. Ryanair will not compensate passengers beyond that.
The only people not to be affected by Ryanair cancellations in Germany are those flying to and from 
Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden airport. The pilots stationed there are not participating in the strike, which was called by 
pilots' union Vereinigung Cockpit earlier this week.
Pilots and crew are seeking new contracts that include better pay and working conditions.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Friederike Heine, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
German pilots to join biggest strike in Ryanair 's history
End of Document
German pilots to join biggest strike in Ryanair 's history
German pilots to join biggest strike in Ryanair's history
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 10, 2018 Friday 2:11 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 195 words
Body
       AMSTERDAM (dpa-AFX) - German Ryanair pilots are set to join the biggest industrial action by pilots in the 
budget airline's history on Friday.  Nearly 400 flights across Europe have been cancelled in anticipation of the 24-
hour stoppage, which will also include pilots in Belgium, Sweden, Ireland, and The Netherlands.   The cancellations 
constitute about a sixth of Ryanair's 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday, affecting some 55,000 passengers.  Most of 
those affected - about 42,000 - will be in Germany, where strike action begins at 03:01 am (0101 GMT) and comes 
at the height of the summer holiday season.   The affected passengers have been given the option to reschedule 
their flights free of charge or get their money back. Ryanair will not compensate passengers beyond that.  The only 
people not to be affected by Ryanair cancellations in Germany are those flying to and from Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden 
airport. The pilots stationed there are not participating in the strike, which was called by pilots' union Vereinigung 
Cockpit earlier this week.  Pilots and crew are seeking new contracts that include better pay and working conditions.   
Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair claims Dutch services unaffected despite pilot strike E Ryanair is insisting that its Dutch operations will 
not be disrupted by a sudden decision by loc....
Ryanair claims Dutch services unaffected despite pilot strike;  E Ryanair is 
insisting that its Dutch operations will not be disrupted by a sudden 
decision by local pilots to join a strike against the airline.
Flight International
August 10, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 146 words
Body
Ryanair is insisting that its Dutch operations will not be disrupted by a sudden decision by local pilots to join a strike 
against the airline.
The budget airline says there will be “no cancellations” to or from the Netherlands on 10 August, despite the 24h 
industrial action which had already included German, Swedish, Belgian and Irish pilots.
Ryanair says it “fully respects” the right of Dutch pilots to strike, but it is requesting that the Dutch pilot union VNV 
gives the carrier at least seven days’ notice in order to allow the airline to minimise disruption.
The carrier is expecting to operate 85% of its overall flight schedule for 10 August, and claims the majority of 
passengers affected by the strikes have already been re-assigned to other Ryanair flights.
Ryanair describes the strike action as “unnecessary” and has urged the unions involved to engage in negotiations.
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
LONDON BRIEFING: TUI, Ryanair Shares Down Amid Mixed Travel Industry
LONDON BRIEFING: TUI, Ryanair Shares Down Amid Mixed Travel Industry
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
August 9, 2018 Thursday 3:18 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 473 words
Body
 There was decidedly mixed news for the travel industry on Thursday, as holiday operator TUI Group reported lower 
profit but retained a confident outlook, while budget airline Ryanair continued to struggle with strikes and received a 
broker downgrade.
TUI reiterated its annual earnings guidance as it posted a 27% drop in third-quarter pretax profit.
The Anglo-German travel operator also said that summer bookings for the current year are up 4%, with 86% of the 
programme sold, in line with prior year.
For the three months to June-end, TUI recorded pretax profit of EUR147.5 million, down from EUR203.3 million 
recorded in the comparative year ago period, on a revenue of EUR5.02 billion and EUR4.78 billion, respectively.
The drop in quarterly pretax profit was blamed upon a decline in financial income and increased cost of sales. The 
rise in revenue was credited to 5% growth in customer volumes, good portfolio performance, and additional hotel 
and cruise ship capacity.
Adjusted earnings before income, taxes and amortisation - the company's preferred profit measure - fell 18% to 
EUR193.4 million in the quarter from EUR235.8 million a year ago.
For the 2018 financial year, ending in September, TUI said it expects to record at least 10% underlying Ebita growth 
over the year earlier, with revenue growth of around 3%. In the 2017 financial year, TUI posted underlying Ebita of 
EUR1.10 billion and revenue of EUR18.54 billion.
The stock was down 4.7% early Thursday in London, the worst FTSE 100 performer.
Meanwhile, Ryanair has cancelled 250 flights scheduled for Friday in response to an announcement from the 
German pilots' union that its members would join a strike by Ryanair pilots in Sweden, Ireland and Belgium.
LONDON BRIEFING: TUI, Ryanair Shares Down Amid Mixed Travel Industry
The move comes on top of 146 other cancellations announced several days ago due to the coinciding pilot strikes 
in three other countries, taking the total number of cancellations to nearly 400. It will be the biggest strike in the 
airline's history.
Raymond James downgraded the stock to Market Perform from Outperform. Ryanair shares were down 1.3% early 
Thursday in London.
Here is what you need to know at the London market open:----------MARKETS----------FTSE 100: down 0.5% at 
7,737.76----------Hang Seng: up 1.2% at 28,699.83Nikkei 225: closed down 0.2% at 22,598.39DJIA: closed down 
0.2% at 25,583.75S&P 500: closed flat at 2,857.70----------GBP: soft at USD1.2870 (USD1.2888)EUR: unchanged 
at USD1.1599 (USD1.1599)
Gold: firm at USD1,214.16 per ounce (USD1,210.35)Oil (Brent): up at USD74.41 a barrel (USD72.33)
(changes since previous London equities close)----------ECONOMICS AND GENERAL----------Thursday's Key 
Economic Events still to come 
South Africa National Women's Day. Financial markets closed
0930 BST UK mortgage and landlord possession statistics0930 BST UK Finance mortgage data1100 BST Ireland 
CPI
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to 'Sell' at BidaskClub
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to 'Sell' at BidaskClub
Watchlist News
August 9, 2018 Thursday 10:09 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 762 words
Body
Aug 09, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
was downgraded by analysts at BidaskClub[1] from a "hold" rating to a "sell" rating in a research report issued on 
Tuesday.RYAAY has been the subject of a number of other reports. Deutsche Bank reaffirmed a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, May 22nd. Zacks Investment Research[2] raised shares of 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $138.00 price target for the company in a research report on 
Wednesday, April 11th. 
ValuEngine[3] cut shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Wednesday, May 
9th. Exane BNP Paribas cut shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report 
on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, BNP Paribas cut shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating 
in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six 
have given a hold rating and two have issued a buy rating to the stock. The stock currently has an average rating of 
"Hold" and an average target price of $138.00.Shares of RYAAY stock[4] traded down $1.05 on Tuesday, reaching 
$100.01. 8,094 shares of the stock were exchanged, compared to its average volume of 373,231. The company 
has a market cap of $23.40 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 14.13 and a beta of 0.64. The company has a quick 
ratio of 1.12, a current ratio of 1.12 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.72. Ryanair has a 1-year low of $98.27 and a 1-
year high of $127.61. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. 
The transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by 
$0.05. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 
billion. Ryanair had a return on equity of 29.19% and a net margin of 18.47%. analysts expect that Ryanair will post 
6.72 earnings per share for the current fiscal year. Large investors have recently bought and sold shares of the 
business. Baillie Gifford .... lifted its position in shares of Ryanair by 2.3% during the second quarter. Baillie Gifford 
.... now owns 5,936,962 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $678,179,000 after purchasing an 
additional 133,294 shares during the last quarter. WCM Investment Management CA lifted its position in shares of 
Ryanair by 5.2% during the first quarter. WCM Investment Management CA now owns 3,719,251 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $456,910,000 after purchasing an additional 185,253 shares during the last 
quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA lifted its position in shares of Ryanair by 14.5% during the 
second quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,539,197 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $290,053,000 after purchasing an additional 321,859 shares during the last quarter. Royal 
Bank of Canada lifted its position in shares of Ryanair by 9.6% during the first quarter. Royal Bank of Canada now 
owns 2,018,166 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $247,932,000 after purchasing an additional 
176,959 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Thornburg Investment Management Inc. lifted its position in shares 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to 'Sell' at BidaskClub
of Ryanair by 20.4% during the first quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares 
of the transportation company's stock worth $242,499,000 after purchasing an additional 334,623 shares during the 
last quarter. 43.88% of the stock is owned by institutional investors. Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, 
together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled 
services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its 
Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.Featured Article: Short 
Selling 
Stocks 
and 
Day 
Traders 
[5] 
[ 
1]: 
http://bidaskclub.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 5]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/short-selling-stocks-explanation/ 
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
dpa NEWS SCHEDULE for THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 1200 GMT
dpa NEWS SCHEDULE for THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 1200 GMT
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 9, 2018 Thursday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 346 words
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the news schedule or need items repeated, please call or email the 
dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 
8065 Email: international@dpa.com
INDONESIA-EARTHQUAKE
A powerful aftershock rocked Indonesia's Lombok island, as the death toll from an earthquake at the weekend 
climbed to at least 259. Moving
____
YEMEN-CONFLICT
A strike by the Saudi-led coalition on Yemen's northern province of Saada hit a school bus and killed 43 people, 
most of them children, according to a rebel-affiliated health official. Moving
____
US-DEFENCE-SPACE
Vice President Mike Pence is expected to reveal details on the United States' plans to establish a "Space Force," in 
what would be a sixth branch of the military. To move
____
INDIA-BUSINESS-IKEA
Swedish furniture giant IKEA opens its first store in India, eyeing one of the world's fastest-growing middle classes. 
Moved
dpa NEWS SCHEDULE for THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 1200 GMT
____
PALESTINIAN TERRITORIES-CONFLICT-ISRAEL
Cross-border fire flared up overnight between Israel and Hamas, with three Palestinians - a pregnant woman, her 1-
year-old child and a Hamas militant - killed in the Israeli strikes. Moved
____
EUROPE-LABOUR-RYANAIR
Ryanair is seeking a temporary injunction in the Netherlands to block a strike scheduled to start on Friday, in which 
pilots from Belgium, Germany, Ireland, and Sweden are also taking part. Moving
____
KOREAS-CONFLICT
North and South Korea plan to hold high-level talks next week to prepare for a possible third meeting between their 
leaders, amid efforts to bring peace to the peninsula and row back Pyongyang's nuclear weapons programme. 
Moved
____
GERMANY-HISTORY-ARTS-NAZIS
Allach porcelein's dark history is right in plain sight: Simply flip over any item to find the rune of the Nazi regime's 
elite SS corps. Unscrupulous collectors are willing to pay the highest prices for the in-demand collector's items 
made by prisoners from the Dachau camp.
FEATURE: Nazi porcelain made by Dachau inmates draws unscrupulous collectors. By Georg Etscheit, 800 words, 
to move at 1205
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
Reviewing Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) and Ryanair ( RYAAY )
Reviewing Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) and Ryanair (RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
August 9, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 796 words
Body
Deutsche Lufthansa (OTCMKTS: DLAKY) and Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) are both large-cap transportation 
companies, but which is the superior business? We will compare the two companies based on the strength of their 
risk, profitability, dividends, institutional ownership, valuation, earnings and analyst recommendations.  
Insider & Institutional Ownership
0.2% of Deutsche Lufthansa shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 43.9% of Ryanair shares are 
held by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that endowments, large money 
managers and hedge funds believe a stock will outperform the market over the long term. 
Analyst Recommendations
This is a breakdown of recent ratings and price targets for Deutsche Lufthansa and Ryanair, as provided by 
MarketBeat.com. 
Sell Ratings
Hold Ratings
Buy Ratings
Strong Buy 
Ratings
Rating Score
Deutsche 
Lufthansa
1
3
3
0
2.29
Ryanair
1
5
2
0
2.13
Dividends
Deutsche Lufthansa pays an annual dividend of $0.67 per share and has a dividend yield of 2.5%. Ryanair does not 
pay a dividend. Deutsche Lufthansa pays out 11.8% of its earnings in the form of a dividend.  
Profitability
This table compares Deutsche Lufthansa and Ryanair's net margins, return on equity and return on assets.
Net Margins
Return on Equity
Return on Assets
Deutsche Lufthansa
6.59%
26.62%
6.29%
Ryanair
18.47%
29.19%
11.34%
Reviewing Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) and Ryanair ( RYAAY )
Risk and Volatility Deutsche Lufthansa has a beta of 0.74, meaning that its share price is 26% less volatile than 
the S&P 500. Comparatively, Ryanair has a beta of 0.64, meaning that its share price is 36% less volatile than the 
S&P 500. 
Earnings and Valuation This table compares Deutsche Lufthansa and Ryanair's revenue, earnings per share and 
valuation.
Gross 
Revenue
Price/Sales 
Ratio
Net Income
Earnings Per 
Share
Price/Earnings 
Ratio
Deutsche 
Lufthansa
$40.19 billion
0.32
$2.67 billion
$5.68
4.77
Ryanair
$8.37 billion
2.83
$1.70 billion
$7.05
14.33
Deutsche Lufthansa has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. Deutsche Lufthansa is trading at a lower price-
to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. 
Summary
Ryanair beats Deutsche Lufthansa on 8 of the 14 factors compared between the two stocks. 
About Deutsche Lufthansa
Deutsche Lufthansa logo Deutsche Lufthansa AG operates as an aviation company in Germany and internationally. 
It operates through Network Airlines, Point-to-Point Airlines, Logistics, MRO, Catering segments. The Network 
Airlines segment offers passenger services through a route network of 263 destinations in 86 countries. The Point-
to-Point Airlines segment provides passenger services through a route network of 192 destinations in 62 countries. 
The Logistics segment offers a range of cargo transport services for various cargos, including live animals, valuable 
cargo, mail, dangerous goods, and temperature-sensitive cargo. This segment serves approximately 300 
destinations in approximately 100 countries. The MRO segment provides maintenance, repair, and overhaul 
services for civilian commercial aircraft. It serves airlines and aircraft leasing companies, operators of VIP jets, and 
public-sector clients. The Catering segment offers catering, in-flight sales and in-flight entertainment, in-flight 
service equipment, and the associated logistics, as well as consulting services and operating airport lounges. The 
company also provides consulting and IT services for the aviation industry; training courses in simulator training, 
emergency and service drill, and e-learning; business travel management solutions in the area of payment and 
analysis of corporate travel; and aviation and transport insurance products, as well as insurance brokerage, 
reinsurance, and risk management services. As of December 31, 2017, it had a fleet of 728 aircraft. Deutsche 
Lufthansa AG is headquartered in Cologne, Germany. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair logo Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such 
as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel 
insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In 
addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car 
parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 
737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving 
approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, 
Ireland.    
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYA ) Downgraded by Raymond James to Market Perform
Ryanair (RYA) Downgraded by Raymond James to Market Perform
American Banking and Market News
August 9, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 214 words
Body
Ryanair logo Ryanair (LON:RYA) was downgraded by equities researchers at Raymond James to a "market 
perform" rating in a research note issued on Thursday. 
Several other research firms also recently weighed in on RYA. AlphaValue downgraded shares of Ryanair to a 
"reduce" rating in a research note on Wednesday, July 25th. Liberum Capital decreased their price target on shares 
of Ryanair from GBX 21 ($0.27) to GBX 18.50 ($0.24) and set a "buy" rating for the company in a research note on 
Wednesday, May 23rd. 
LON RYA  traded down GBX 1,347.60 ($17.44) during mid-day trading on Thursday, reaching GBX 13.40 ($0.17). 
457,214 shares of the stock were exchanged, compared to its average volume of 2,010,000. Ryanair has a one 
year low of GBX 13.99 ($0.18) and a one year high of GBX 19.78 ($0.26).  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: Growth Stocks 
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to Market Perform at Raymond James
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to Market Perform at Raymond James
American Banking and Market News
August 9, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 682 words
Body
Ryanair logo Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by equities researchers at Raymond James from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report issued to clients and investors on Thursday,       
     The Fly  reports. 
A number of other research analysts have also recently issued reports on RYAAY. BidaskClub cut shares of 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "sell" rating in a report on Tuesday. ValuEngine  cut shares of Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "sell" rating in a report on Tuesday, July 24th. Exane BNP Paribas cut shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas cut shares of Ryanair from 
an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, Deutsche Bank cut shares of 
Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Five investment analysts have rated 
the stock with a sell rating, six have assigned  a hold rating and two have given a buy rating to the stock. The stock 
presently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average target price of $138.00. 
RYAAY  traded down $1.40 during midday trading on Thursday, hitting $99.66. The company had a trading volume 
of 7,838 shares, compared to its average volume of 373,231. Ryanair has a 52 week low of $98.27 and a 52 week 
high of $127.61. The company has a current ratio of 1.12, a quick ratio of 1.12 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.72. 
The company has a market cap of $23.40 billion, a P/E ratio of 14.13 and a beta of 0.64.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, beating the consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. 
Ryanair had a net margin of 18.47% and a return on equity of 29.19%. The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion during 
the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion.  research analysts forecast that  Ryanair will post 
6.72 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
Several hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. UBS Group 
AG boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 40.1% during the first quarter. UBS Group AG now owns 35,105 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $4,313,000 after purchasing an additional 10,041 shares during the last 
quarter.  State of Wisconsin Investment Board boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 337.3% during the first quarter. 
State of Wisconsin Investment Board now owns 131,871 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$16,200,000 after purchasing an additional 101,718 shares during the last quarter.  Millennium Management LLC 
boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 239.6% during the fourth quarter. Millennium Management LLC now owns 
43,867 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $4,571,000 after purchasing an additional 30,948 shares 
during the last quarter.  Stifel Financial Corp boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 30.9% during the first quarter. Stifel 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to Market Perform at Raymond James
Financial Corp now owns 36,412 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $4,458,000 after purchasing 
an additional 8,598 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, FIL Ltd boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 659.3% 
during the first quarter. FIL Ltd now owns 575,221 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $70,665,000 
after purchasing an additional 499,469 shares during the last quarter. Hedge funds and other institutional investors 
own  43.88% of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: Google Finance Portfolio Tips and Tricks   
Analyst Recommendations for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair seeks to block Netherlands strike as pilot walk-out looms
Ryanair seeks to block Netherlands strike as pilot walk-out looms
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 9, 2018 Thursday 5:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 204 words
Byline: Annette Birschel in Amsterdam, Christian Ebner in Frankfurt
Dateline: Amsterdam (dpa) - 
Body
Ryanair is seeking a temporary injunction in the Netherlands to block a 24-hour strike by pilots there scheduled to 
start on Friday.
A Haarlem court will rule Thursday on whether the Dutch national pilot union may join several others in carrying out 
industrial action.
One in six flights by Ryanair - Europe's largest budget airline - have been cancelled in anticipation of the strike, 
coming to about 400 in total.
Some 55,000 passengers are set to be affected, with 42,000 of those in Germany alone.
Pilots and crew want Ryanair to roll out a new contract on wages that include better working conditions, but both 
sides blame each other for a breakdown in the negotiations.
The German union announced on Wednesday that its members would join their counterparts in Belgium, Germany, 
Ireland, and Sweden in the strike. It is scheduled to take place between 3:01 am (0101 GMT) Friday and 2:59 am 
Saturday.
If the pilots' strike goes ahead as planned, it would be the biggest such action to affect the Irish company.
Ryanair has only recognized pilot unions since last year, taking the step during negotiations to ward off a previous 
threat of strikes.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Robin Powell, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Ryanair seeks to block Netherlands strike as pilot walk-out looms
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair seeks to block Netherlands strike as pilot walk-out looms
Ryanair seeks to block Netherlands strike as pilot walk-out looms
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 9, 2018 Thursday 5:25 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 209 words
Body
       By Annette Birschel and Christian Ebner, dpa   AMSTERDAM (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair is seeking a temporary 
injunction in the Netherlands to block a 24-hour strike by pilots there scheduled to start on Friday.  A Haarlem court 
will rule Thursday on whether the Dutch national pilot union may join several others in carrying out industrial action.  
One in six flights by Ryanair - Europe's largest budget airline - have been cancelled in anticipation of the strike, 
coming to about 400 in total.  Some 55,000 passengers are set to be affected, with 42,000 of those in Germany 
alone.  Pilots and crew want Ryanair to roll out a new contract on wages that include better working conditions, but 
both sides blame each other for a breakdown in the negotiations.  The German union announced on Wednesday 
that its members would join their counterparts in Belgium, Germany, Ireland, and Sweden in the strike. It is 
scheduled to take place between 3:01 am (0101 GMT) Friday and 2:59 am Saturday.  If the pilots' strike goes 
ahead as planned, it would be the biggest such action to affect the Irish company.   Ryanair has only recognized 
pilot unions since last year, taking the step during negotiations to ward off a previous threat of strikes.   Copyright 
dpa    
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair pilot walk-out looms - over 50,000 passengers to be affected
Ryanair pilot walk-out looms - over 50,000 passengers to be affected
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 9, 2018 Thursday 8:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 218 words
Byline: Annette Birschel in Amsterdam, Christian Ebner in Frankfurt
Dateline: Amsterdam (dpa) - 
Body
A 24-hour strike by pilots for budget airline Ryanair was set to go ahead on Friday, disrupting the travel plans of 
some 55,000 passengers, mostly in Germany.
A last-minute decision by a Dutch court stopped efforts by the Irish firm's management to block a strike by the 
national pilot union there.
Some 22 flights in the Netherlands will be affected by the strike. Across Europe, one in six flights by Europe's 
largest budget airline have been cancelled in anticipation of the industrial action, coming to about 400 in total.
Pilots and crew want Ryanair to roll out a new contract on wages that include better working conditions, but both 
sides blame each other for a breakdown in the negotiations.
The German union announced on Wednesday that its members would join their counterparts in Belgium, Germany, 
Ireland, and Sweden in the strike. It is scheduled to take place between 3:01 am (0101 GMT) Friday and 2:59 am 
Saturday.
Some 42,000 of the affected passengers are in Germany.
If the pilots' strike goes ahead as planned, it would be the biggest such action to affect the Irish company.
Ryanair has only recognized pilot unions since last year, taking the step during negotiations to ward off a previous 
threat of strikes.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Robin Powell, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Ryanair pilot walk-out looms - over 50,000 passengers to be affected
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair pilot walk-out looms - over 50,000 passengers to be affected
Ryanair pilot walk-out looms - over 50,000 passengers to be affected
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 9, 2018 Thursday 8:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 222 words
Body
       By Annette Birschel and Christian Ebner, dpa   AMSTERDAM (dpa-AFX) - A 24-hour strike by pilots for budget 
airline Ryanair was set to go ahead on Friday, disrupting the travel plans of some 55,000 passengers, mostly in 
Germany.  A last-minute decision by a Dutch court stopped efforts by the Irish firm's management to block a strike 
by the national pilot union there. 
 Some 22 flights in the Netherlands will be affected by the strike. Across Europe, one in six flights by Europe's 
largest budget airline  have been cancelled in anticipation of the industrial action, coming to about 400 in total.  
Pilots and crew want Ryanair to roll out a new contract on wages that include better working conditions, but both 
sides blame each other for a breakdown in the negotiations.  The German union announced on Wednesday that its 
members would join their counterparts in Belgium, Germany, Ireland, and Sweden in the strike. It is scheduled to 
take place between 3:01 am (0101 GMT) Friday and 2:59 am Saturday.  Some 42,000 of the affected passengers 
are in Germany.  If the pilots' strike goes ahead as planned, it would be the biggest such action to affect the Irish 
company.  Ryanair has only recognized pilot unions since last year, taking the step during negotiations to ward off a 
previous threat of strikes.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
City A.M.
August 9, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 449 words
Body
FINANCIAL TIMES INVESTEC FACES REVOLT OVER KPMG REAPPOINTMENT Almost a fifth of shareholders 
at Investec have rebelled over the financial services company's plan to reappoint KPMG as its joint auditor, 
following a string of highprofile controversies involving the accounting firm's South African business. Investec, which 
is listed in Johannesburg and London, made the unusual decision to publish a lengthy statement accompanying the 
results of its annual shareholder meeting setting out why it had decided to stick with KPMG.
SAUDI ARABIA SELLS CANADIAN ASSETS Saudi Arabia is selling Canadian assets as the kingdom escalates its 
response to Ottawa's criticism of the arrest of a female activist. The Saudi central bank and state pension funds 
have instructed their overseas asset managers to dispose of their Canadian equities.
THE TIMES CHRIS GRAYLING UNDER FIRE OVER HS2 EXEC PAY The transport secretary faces growing 
questions over why he ignored warnings and allowed HS2 to award sixfigure pay packets a quarter of its staff. The 
Times revealed that Liz Truss, chief secretary to the Treasury, wrote to Chris Grayling in the spring warning him 
that salaries at HS2 were too high. Labour has accused him of allowing bosses to profit at the taxpayers' expense. 
HS2 paid 318 staff at least £100,000 last year.
CHINESE GAMBLING HUB TO BE WORLD'S RICHEST PLACE Macau, the world's gambling hub, will overtake 
Qatar as the richest place in the world in 2020, according to the IMF.
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH RYANAIR FLIGHTS CANCELLED AMID STRIKES Ryanair has been plunged into a 
fresh crisis after German pilots joined colleagues across Europe in a wave of coordinated strike action timed to 
cause maximum disruption to summer getaways. Nearly one-fifth of Ryanair's flights, nearly 400 in total, are due to 
be grounded on Friday, disappointing tens of thousands of customers at the height of the holidays.
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
RUTH DAVIDSON: BURKAS LIKE 'WEARING A CRUCIFIX' Ruth Davidson, the leader of the Scottish 
Conservatives, said debate over wearing burkas and crosses "is the same argument but in a different faith".
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL SALESFORCE PROMOTES BLOCK TO CO-CEO www.Salesforce.com promoted 
chief operating officer Keith Block to co-chief executive, giving him shared leadership of the business-software 
company with its co-founder and chairman, Marc Benioff. Block, a former Oracle executive joined Salesforce in 
2013 as vice chairman and president.
CVS CHIEF: DON'T BLAME US FOR HIGHER DRUG PRICES CVS Health chief exec Larry Merlo said yesterday 
that industry middlemen aren't responsible for increasing US drug prices, noting that prices are rising faster for 
medicines with smaller manufacturer rebates.
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
Stock Analysts' Downgrades for August, 9th (IBKR, KAR, MET, PAH, RYAAY, SCG, SO, SWM, SYNC, TFSL)
Stock Analysts' Downgrades for August, 9th (IBKR, KAR, MET, PAH, RYAAY, 
SCG, SO, SWM, SYNC, TFSL)
American Banking and Market News
August 9, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 1649 words
Body
Stock Analysts' downgrades for Thursday, August 9th: 
Interactive Brokers Group (NASDAQ:IBKR) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  from a 
hold rating to a sell rating. According to Zacks, "Interactive Brokers  shares have underperformed the industry in the 
past six months. Yet, the company has an impressive earnings surprise history, having surpassed the Zacks 
Consensus Estimate in each of the trailing four quarters. Its second-quarter 2018 results reflected higher revenues 
and rise in Daily Average Revenue Trades (DARTs). While low level of compensation expenses, business 
restructuring efforts, development of proprietary software and increasing emerging market customers continue 
contributing to the company s growth, its high dependence on IBG remains a major concern. This is because, if IBG 
LLC fails to provide sufficient funds to pay taxes or for any other purpose, the company s financial condition may 
suffer." 
KAR Auction Services (NYSE:KAR) was downgraded by analysts at Gabelli from a buy rating to a hold rating. 
They noted that the move was a valuation call. The analysts noted that the move was a valuation call. 
Metlife (NYSE:MET) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  from a buy rating to a hold 
rating. According to Zacks, "MetLife earnings beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 11.1% and improved 25% 
year over year on prudent underwriting and expense management. MetLife s shares have gained when compared 
to its industry s growth in six month s time. Moreover, the company has witnessed its 2018 estimates move upward 
over the last seven days. Its efforts to streamline business, only to focus on core business are really impressive. Its 
revenues grew in 2017 after declining for two years and the trend is likely to continue in 2018. Its strong 
international operations and disciplined capital management should drive long-term growth. However, the company 
s exposure to catastrophe losses and investment in efficiency programs will put pressure on margins." 
Platform Specialty Products (NYSE:PAH) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  from a 
hold rating to a sell rating. According to Zacks, "Platform Specialty s adjusted earnings and sales for the second 
quarter beat the respective Zacks Consensus Estimate. The company is exposed to raw material inflation which 
may hurt its margins. Also, poor weather conditions and softness in Europe could impact the performance of its 
Agricultural Solutions business in the near term. The company s high debt level is another concern." 
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by analysts at Raymond James from an outperform rating to a 
market perform rating.  
Stock Analysts' Downgrades for August, 9th (IBKR, KAR, MET, PAH, RYAAY, SCG, SO, SWM, SYNC, TFSL)
SCANA (NYSE:SCG) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  from a hold rating to a sell 
rating. According to Zacks, "SCANA has lost 37.5% over the past year, significantly underperforming the 3.5% 
collective decline of the stocks belonging to the industry. The company s efforts to recover costs associated with its 
failed nuclear developments flop after a federal judge decided to slash retail electric rates temporarily by 15%. 
Eventually, the customers of the South Carolina Electric and Gas (SCE&G) will see lower electricity bill for a while 
which will hurt SCANA s shareholders. SCANA also opted to slash dividend payments by roughly 80% to 12.37 
cents, marking the first cut since 1999. On top of that, SCANA s balance sheet seems highly levered with more than 
$7 billion of debt pile and only $238 million in cash and equivalents.  " 
Southern (NYSE:SO) was downgraded by analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG from a neutral rating to an 
underperform rating.  
Schweitzer-Mauduit International (NYSE:SWM) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  
from a hold rating to a sell rating. According to Zacks, "Schweitzer-Mauduit International, Inc. (SWM) is a leading 
global provider of engineered solutions & advanced materials. From their origins as paper-making experts during 
the Renaissance to their cutting-edge technologies that solve today's modern business challenges, SWM has 
consistently demonstrated a forward-looking approach to helping their customers succeed. In recent years, as they 
focused on expanding their reach beyond fiber-based materials, SWM established & grew its Advanced Materials & 
Structures platform to include expertise and capabilities in resin-based technologies and materials. As part of this 
effort, SWM acquired and integrated several global leaders specializing in market-leading netting & high-
performance TPU films, including Argotec, Conwed Plastics and DelStar Technologies. SWM also acquired its 
subsidiary Filtrexx International, a global leader in the research & development of sustainable, compost-based 
solutions for erosion control and storm water management.   " 
Synacor (NASDAQ:SYNC) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  from a hold rating to a 
strong sell rating. According to Zacks, "Synacor, Inc. is a provider of solutions for delivery of online content and 
services. Synacor clients including cable, telecom, satellite and consumer electronics companies, use Synacor's 
Platform to deliver TV shows, movies, music, news, games, sports, email, tech support and other value-added 
services to their end-customers, across multiple connected devices. Its platform includes Website design and 
development, unified registration and login (single sign-on), billing integration, personalization, video delivery 
capability, content management system, household management, toolbar and television listings. Synacor, Inc. is 
headquartered in Buffalo, New York.   " 
TFS Financial (NASDAQ:TFSL) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  from a hold rating to 
a sell rating. According to Zacks, "TFS Financial Corporation is a federally chartered stock holding company, 
conducts its activities through its wholly owned subsidiaries. The line of business of the Company is retail consumer 
banking, mortgage lending, deposit gathering and other financial services. The Company's operating subsidiaries 
include Third Federal Savings and Loan Association of Cleveland and Third Capital, Inc. Third Federal Savings and 
Loan Association offers various deposit accounts, including savings accounts, NOW accounts, certificates of 
deposit and individual retirement accounts, and other qualified plan accounts. Third Capital engages in net lease 
transactions of commercial buildings; maintains investments in private equity funds; provides escrow and settlement 
services; and reinsures private mortgage insurance on residential mortgage loans. The company is based in 
Cleveland, Ohio.   " 
Tronox (OTCMKTS:TROX) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  from a hold rating to a 
sell rating. According to Zacks, "Tronox Incorporated is a producer and marketer of titanium products. Products 
offered by the Company includes: titanium ore and titanium dioxide (TiO2); mineral sands products; and electrolytic 
and speciality chemicals. Titanium products offered by Tronox find its application in paints, coatings and plastics. 
The electrolytic and specialty chemicals find s application in the paper and battery industries. Tronox's mineral 
sands operations consist of two product streams - titanium feedstock, which includes ilmenite, natural rutile, 
titanium slag and synthetic rutile; and zircon, which is contained in the mineral sands extracted to capture natural 
titanium feedstock.  Tronox operates three separate mining operations: KZN Sands and Namakwa Sands located in 
South Africa and Perth in Western Australia. Production of electrolytic and specialty chemicals is carried out in 
United States. Tronox Incorporated is based in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.   " 
Stock Analysts' Downgrades for August, 9th (IBKR, KAR, MET, PAH, RYAAY, SCG, SO, SWM, SYNC, TFSL)
Travelport Worldwide (NYSE:TVPT) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  from a hold 
rating to a sell rating. According to Zacks, "Travelport Worldwide Limited is a Travel Commerce Platform providing 
distribution, technology, payment and other solutions for the global travel and tourism industry. Its Travel 
Commerce Platform enables travel providers, travel agencies, corporations and developers to connect. Through its 
Technology Services it provides critical IT solutions to airlines, such as shopping, ticketing and departure control 
applications. The Company also provides an array of additional services, such as advertising solutions, subscription 
services, business intelligence data services, and marketing-oriented analytical tools to travel providers, travel 
agencies and other travel data users. Travelport Worldwide Limited is based in Atlanta, Georgia.   " 
Titan International (NYSE:TWI) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  from a hold rating to 
a strong sell rating. According to Zacks, "Titan International, Inc. is a leading global manufacturer of off-highway 
wheels, tires, assemblies, and undercarriage products. The company globally produces a broad range of products 
to meet the specifications of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and aftermarket customers in the 
agricultural, earthmoving/construction, and consumer markets.   " 
Ultrapar Participacoes (NYSE:UGP) was downgraded by analysts at Citigroup Inc from a buy rating to a neutral 
rating.  
Cimarex Energy (NYSE:XEC) was downgraded by analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG from an outperform rating 
to a neutral rating.  
DENTSPLY SIRONA (NASDAQ:XRAY) was downgraded by analysts at Barrington Research from an outperform 
rating to a market perform rating. The analysts wrote, "We are cutting our investment rating to MARKET PERFORM 
in response to XRAYâ€™s weak financial guidance for the remainder of FY/18 and the massive uncertainty we still 
see surrounding this business beyond this year. This update marks a new low in DENTSPLY SIRONAâ€™s 
disappointing 2 ½ year history as a combined publicly-traded company.&#8221;"  
Load-Date: August 11, 2018
End of Document
Thursday Papers: Musk underrated Tesla’s value, says top investor
Thursday Papers: Musk underrated Tesla’s value, says top investor
Citywire
August 9, 2018 Thursday 5:28 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 930 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And the Saudi Arabian regime has triggered a selloff of Canadian assets amid an escalating row 
between the two nations over human rights.
Body
Top stories
•
The Times: Baillie Gifford, which owns $4 billion worth of Tesla stock, has claimed that the electric car 
company could be worth far more than the $420 a share that Elon Musk said he was prepared to offer.
•
The Daily Telegraph: The Saudi Arabian regime triggered a selloff of Canadian assets on Tuesday 
morning, amid an escalating row between the two nations over human rights.
•
Financial Times: Samsung is trying to ensure profitability in the face of tough competition from Chinese 
rivals by outlining a $160 billion three-year investment in new technologies.
•
The Times: Beaufort Securities’ customers will have their accounts transferred to a new retail broker after 
administrators agreed a deal to sell much of the business.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Chinese exports increased 12.2% in July compared with the previous year in dollar 
terms despite tariffs imposed by the US.
Business and economics
•
Financial Times: Washington has imposed sweeping new sanctions against Russia following a near-fatal 
nerve agent attack against British citizen and former Russian spy Sergei Skripal.
•
Daily Express: Frenchic, the British-made paint brand that uses eco-friendly formulas for reviving furniture 
and homes, is looking to turn over £3 million next year after securing a new US trade deal.
•
The Guardian: Elon Musk’s surprise proposal to privatise the money-losing car maker Tesla was known to 
the directors, who met several times in the past week to discuss the proposal.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Corporate raider Ed Bramson has stepped up his Barclays battle with plans to push 
to steer who the banking giant picks as its next chairman.
•
The Daily Telegraph: One sixth of Ryanair’s flights are due to be grounded on Friday after German pilots 
joined colleagues across Europe in a wave of coordinated strike action.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Beijing has said that it will hit $16 billion of US products, including the fossil fuels and 
medical equipment, with a 25% tariff in retaliation to round two of Donald Trump's tariffs on Chinese goods.
Thursday Papers: Musk underrated Tesla’s value, says top investor
•
Daily Mail: Mark & Spencer is allowing customers to return clothing to its 280 Simply Food stores as it 
prepares to close 100 shops.
•
The Independent: Homebase is likely to close 60 stores next week, putting nearly 1,000 jobs at risk.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Paddy Power Betfair disappointed investors on Wednesday as half-year revenue 
growth missed expectations and full-year earnings guidance was trimmed by around £12.5 million.
•
The Daily Telegraph: South African bank Investec’s shareholders have revolted against its decision to 
reappoint KPMG as its auditor, following a spate of scandals at the Big Four accountancy giant.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Carmakers Mazda and Suzuki have reportedly admitted to conducting improper fuel 
economy and emissions tests on their vehicles in Japan.
•
The Times: Glencore yesterday unveiled record first-half profits boosted by soaring commodities prices; 
net profit for the first six months rose by 13% to $2.8 billion.
•
The Independent: Centrica-owned British Gas has announced it is increasing the price of its standard 
variable tariff, blaming rising wholesale costs, that would affect 3.5 million UK households.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Britain’s richest man Sir Jim Ratcliffe is leaving the country in favour of Monaco.
•
Financial Times: ABN Amro plans to cut 250 jobs in its corporate and investment bank as the Dutch lender 
continues to shrink back to its domestic market.
•
The Independent: The value of the pound fell 0.57% yesterday to just $1.2863, the weakest since August 
2017, amid rising fears of a no-deal Brexit.
•
The Times: The FTSE 250 developer Bellway has warned of moderating growth in house prices hailed 
strong revenue growth of about 16 per cent to almost £3 billion as it reported rising demand.
•
Financial Times: hares in Cathay Pacific fell as much as 3.3% on Wednesday after the carrier reported an 
unexpected loss for the first six months of the year.
•
The Times: The German-owned energy group Eon has overtaken SSE as Britain’s second largest 
household energy supplier.
•
Financial Times: MTR Corporation, the Hong Kong metro operator, has become engulfed in a domestic 
scandal over construction standards at a $12 billion metro extension project.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Prudential chief executive Mike Wells said that performance in the first-half had 
"again been led by Asia" and it is not surprising that competitors are eyeing up the firm's Asia arm.
•
The Times: A fall in new homes coming on to the market would push home rents higher by almost a sixth 
within five years, a closely watched industry survey has warned.
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): BUY Page Group; HOLD Spirax-Sarco Engineering.
•
The Times: Morgan Sindall’s most important subsidiary Overbury saw its revenues and profitability surge 
by more than 25% in the first six months of the year, boosting the construction group’s interim pre-tax 
profits from £24 million last time to £30 million.
•
Financial Times: Japanese investment group Orix has agreed to buy a 30% stake in air leasing group 
Avolon for $2.2 billion.
•
The Times: Thomson Reuters is looking to make acquisitions in the legal and accounting sectors after 
reporting quarterly earnings ahead of expectations and reaffirming its 2018 forecast.
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): We need a new fighting leader to blast our way out of the lawless EU.
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): Musk’s $6 billion tweet leads Tesla to dead end.
Thursday Papers: Musk underrated Tesla’s value, says top investor
•
The Times (Comment): Doubts lurk over Musk’s resources to fund buyout; sceptics claim tycoon may have 
been trying to boost share price with ‘go private’ tweet.
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
Dutch court allows Ryanair pilots' strike to go ahead
Dutch court allows Ryanair pilots' strike to go ahead
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 9, 2018 Thursday 7:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 63 words
Body
       AMSTERDAM (dpa-AFX) - Dutch pilots for budget airline Ryanair are allowed to take part in Europe-wide strike 
action on Friday, a Dutch court in Haarlem ruled.  The court rejected a bid by the management of Ryanair to stop 
the pilots from striking during the summer period.  Some 22 flights will be affected by the industrial action in The 
Netherlands.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair asks court to block pilot strike in Netherlands
Ryanair asks court to block pilot strike in Netherlands
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 9, 2018 Thursday 11:13 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 134 words
Body
       AMSTERDAM (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair is seeking a temporary injunction in the Netherlands to block a strike 
scheduled to start on Friday.  A Haarlem court will rule Thursday on whether the national pilot union may go ahead 
with the strike, which is set to last one day.   Pilots and crew are seeking a new contract on wages that includes 
better working conditions.  The union announced Wednesday that its members would join their counterparts in 
Belgium, Germany, Ireland, and Sweden in the strike. It is scheduled to take place between 3:01 am (0101 GMT) 
Friday and 2:59 am Saturday.  The discount airline, based in Ireland, responded by filing its injunction request and 
wants to block strikes for the entire summer. Altogether, about 400 flights have been cancelled in anticipation.   
Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
Dutch court allows Ryanair pilots' strike to go ahead
Dutch court allows Ryanair pilots' strike to go ahead
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 9, 2018 Thursday 7:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 68 words
Byline: Annette Birschel in Amsterdam
Dateline: Amsterdam (dpa) - 
Body
Dutch pilots for budget airline Ryanair are allowed to take part in Europe-wide strike action on Friday, a Dutch court 
in Haarlem ruled.
The court rejected a bid by the management of Ryanair to stop the pilots from striking during the summer period.
Some 22 flights will be affected by the industrial action in The Netherlands.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Robin PowellTel: +49 30 2852-31472; <international@dpa.com
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair asks court to block pilot strike in Netherlands
Ryanair asks court to block pilot strike in Netherlands
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 9, 2018 Thursday 11:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 139 words
Byline: Annette Birschel in Amsterdam
Dateline: Amsterdam (dpa) - 
Body
Ryanair is seeking a temporary injunction in the Netherlands to block a strike scheduled to start on Friday.
A Haarlem court will rule Thursday on whether the national pilot union may go ahead with the strike, which is set to 
last one day.
Pilots and crew are seeking a new contract on wages that includes better working conditions.
The union announced Wednesday that its members would join their counterparts in Belgium, Germany, Ireland, and 
Sweden in the strike. It is scheduled to take place between 3:01 am (0101 GMT) Friday and 2:59 am Saturday.
The discount airline, based in Ireland, responded by filing its injunction request and wants to block strikes for the 
entire summer. Altogether, about 400 flights have been cancelled in anticipation.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Helen Fessenden, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: August 10, 2018
End of Document
207,507 Shares in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Acquired by Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School 
Empls Retrmt SYS
207,507 Shares in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Acquired by 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS
American Banking and Market News
August 8, 2018 Wednesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 755 words
Body
Ryanair logo Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS bought a new position in shares of  
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) in the 2nd quarter, according to the company in its most recent Form 13F 
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The firm bought 207,507 shares of the transportation 
company's stock, valued at approximately $23,704,000. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls 
Retrmt SYS owned about 0.09% of Ryanair as of its most recent SEC filing.  
Several other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. 
Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 35.5% in the fourth quarter. 
Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. now owns 2,754 shares of the transportation company's stock valued 
at $287,000 after buying an additional 721 shares in the last quarter.  Millennium Management LLC grew its stake 
in shares of  Ryanair by 239.6% in the fourth quarter. Millennium Management LLC now owns 43,867 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $4,571,000 after buying an additional 30,948 shares in the last quarter.  
Wells Fargo & Company MN grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 5.8% in the first quarter. Wells Fargo & 
Company MN now owns 411,079 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $50,500,000 after buying 
an additional 22,436 shares in the last quarter.  Lester Murray Antman dba SimplyRich grew its stake in shares of  
Ryanair by 10.7% in the first quarter. Lester Murray Antman dba SimplyRich now owns 8,601 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $1,057,000 after buying an additional 832 shares in the last quarter.  
Finally, Comerica Bank grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 3.4% in the first quarter. Comerica Bank now owns 
15,202 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,756,000 after buying an additional 494 shares in 
the last quarter. 43.88% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Ryanair opened at $99.92 on Tuesday, MarketBeat.com  reports. Ryanair Holdings plc has a fifty-two week low of 
$98.27 and a fifty-two week high of $127.61. The company has a quick ratio of 1.12, a current ratio of 1.12 and a 
debt-to-equity ratio of 0.72. The stock has a market capitalization of $23.52 billion, a PE ratio of 14.17 and a beta of 
0.64.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, beating the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. 
The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion. 
Ryanair had a return on equity of 29.19% and a net margin of 18.47%.  equities research analysts expect that  
Ryanair Holdings plc will post 6.72 EPS for the current year.  
207,507 Shares in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Acquired by Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School 
Empls Retrmt SYS
A number of equities research analysts have recently weighed in on the company. BidaskClub cut Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "sell" rating in a research note on Tuesday. BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating 
to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Deutsche Bank cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a 
"hold" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Zacks Investment Research  cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating 
to a "sell" rating in a research note on Friday, April 20th. Finally, Exane BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Five equities research analysts 
have rated the stock with a sell rating, five have given a hold rating and two have assigned  a buy rating to the 
company's stock. The company presently has an average rating of "Hold" and a consensus target price of $138.00. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Trading Strategy Examples and Plans 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: August 8, 2018
End of Document
dpa NEWS SCHEDULE for WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 8, 1200 GMT
dpa NEWS SCHEDULE for WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 8, 1200 GMT
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 8, 2018 Wednesday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 363 words
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the news schedule or need items repeated, please call or email the 
dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 
8065 Email: international@dpa.com
ARGENTINA-POLITICS-RIGHTS
Argentina's Senate is expected to vote on landmark legislation that could decriminalize abortion in the first 14 
weeks of pregnancy, following a protest movement in the predominantly catholic country. To move
____
US-BUSINESS-UBER
New York's City Council is due to vote on a package of measures to regulate ride-sharing apps like Uber and Lyft. 
Moving
- BACKGROUND: Uber's global backlash over taxes, taxi drivers and safety. 880 words, moved
____
GERMANY-LABOUR-RYANAIR
A German pilots' union has called on its members to join a strike on Friday alongside other Ryanair pilots from 
Sweden, Ireland and Belgium. Moving
____
INDIA-POLITICS
dpa NEWS SCHEDULE for WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 8, 1200 GMT
Tamil leader Muthuvel Karunanidhi, one of southern India's most well known politicians, is laid to rest in an 
emotionally charged funeral, with thousands of restive supporters waving flags, shouting slogans and weeping. 
Moving
____
EUROPE-MIGRATION-GERMANY-SPAIN
Berlin and Madrid have reached a bilateral agreement to send some migrants arriving in Germany back to Spain, as 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel strives to secure EU-wide agreement on measures to tackle unchecked 
migration.
- Amnesty points finger at EU over migrant deaths in Mediterranean. Moving
____
INDONESIA-EARTHQUAKE
The official death toll from a devastating earthquake that struck Indonesia's Lombok province has risen to 
131. Moving
____
AUSTRALIA-NATURE-DROUGHT
The whole of New South Wales, an area twice the size of Germany and the most populous state in Australia, is 
officially in drought. Moved
____
WORLD-ENVIRONMENT-SAND
After a day at the beach, it's hard to imagine that the world is running out of sand. Yet this natural raw material is 
quickly being depleted by the construction industry, so much so that experts are now sounding the alarm over the 
consequences of its disappearance.
FEATURE: Hard to believe, but the planet is quickly running out of sand. By Carola Frentzen, 853 words, moving 
shortly
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
German pilots to join major strike action against Ryanair on Friday
German pilots to join major strike action against Ryanair on Friday
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 8, 2018 Wednesday 11:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 286 words
Byline: Christian Ebner in Frankfurt, Friederike Heine in Berlin and Lennart Simonsson in Stockholm
Dateline: Berlin (dpa) - 
Body
A German pilots' union called on its members to join a strike on Friday alongside other Ryanair pilots from Sweden, 
Ireland and Belgium.
The Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) union said the strike would take place between 3:01 am (0101 GMT) Friday and 2:59 
am Saturday and that all Ryanair flights to and from Germany could be affected by the action.
"Ryanair categorically ruled out any increase in pay over the course of the negotiations," said VC chief Martin 
Locher during a press conference. "At the same time, Ryanair did not give any signal as to where there may be 
leeway to find solutions."
German Ryanair pilots will join a previously announced strike by their counterparts in Sweden, Ireland and Belgium, 
which would make it the largest industrial action by pilots in the budget airline's history.
Ryanair has already cancelled 146 of its 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday.
Twenty-two of those flights are to and from Sweden. Most of Ryanair's flights at the regional Skvasta airport, about 
100 kilometres south of Stockholm, will be affected, according to the head of the country's pilots' union.
"No talks are currently under way between Ryanair and the Swedish pilots' union (SPF)," union head Martin 
Lindgren told Swedish Radio on Wednesday. "Ryanair refuses to meet with the SPF representatives we have 
selected."
Two weeks ago, Ryanair crew in Portugal, Spain and Belgium walked off the job, forcing the budget airline to cancel 
some 600 flights over the course of two days. The action affected around 100,000 passengers.
Both pilots and crew are demanding better pay and conditions, which Ryanair has declined to grant thus far.
German pilots to join major strike action against Ryanair on Friday
Editorial contactsEditing by: Stephen Lowman, +49 30 285231472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
German pilots to join major strike action against Ryanair on Friday
German pilots to join major strike action against Ryanair on Friday
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 8, 2018 Wednesday 11:57 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 286 words
Body
       By Christian Ebner, dpa   BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - A German pilots' union called on its members to join a strike on 
Friday alongside other Ryanair pilots from Sweden, Ireland and Belgium.  The Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) union said 
the strike would take place between 3:01 am (0101 GMT) Friday and 2:59 am Saturday and that all Ryanair flights 
to and from Germany could be affected by the action.  'Ryanair categorically ruled out any increase in pay over the 
course of the negotiations,' said VC chief Martin Locher during a press conference. 
'At the same time, Ryanair did not give any signal as to where there may be leeway to find solutions.'  German 
Ryanair pilots will join a previously announced strike by their counterparts in Sweden, Ireland and Belgium, which 
would make it the largest industrial action by pilots in the budget airline's history.  Ryanair has already cancelled 
146 of its 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday.  Twenty-two of those flights are to and from Sweden. Most of Ryanair's 
flights at the regional Skvasta airport, about 100 kilometres south of Stockholm, will be affected, according to the 
head of the country's pilots' union.  'No talks are currently under way between Ryanair and the Swedish pilots' union 
(SPF),' union head Martin Lindgren told Swedish Radio on Wednesday. 'Ryanair refuses to meet with the SPF 
representatives we have selected.'  Two weeks ago, Ryanair crew in Portugal, Spain and Belgium walked off the 
job, forcing the budget airline to cancel some 600 flights over the course of two days. The action affected around 
100,000 passengers.  Both pilots and crew are demanding better pay and conditions, which Ryanair has declined to 
grant thus far.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 8, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair cuts nearly 400 flights ahead of pilot strike in 4 countries
Ryanair cuts nearly 400 flights ahead of pilot strike in 4 countries
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 8, 2018 Wednesday 2:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 335 words
Byline: Christian Ebner in Frankfurt, Friederike Heine in Berlin and Lennart Simonsson in Stockholm
Dateline: Berlin (dpa) - 
Body
Budget airline Ryanair has cancelled 250 flights scheduled for Friday in response to an announcement from the 
German pilots' union that its members would join a strike by Ryanair pilots in Sweden, Ireland and Belgium.
The move comes on top of 146 other cancellations announced several days ago due to the coinciding pilot strikes 
in three other countries, taking the total number of cancellations to nearly 400. It will be the biggest strike in the 
airline's history.
Ryanair's marketing chief Kenny Jacobs said passengers booked on the cancelled flights would be able to change 
their time of departure free of charge or get their money back.
The announcement came several hours after the Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) union said its members would join a 
strike taking place between 3:01 am (0101 GMT) Friday and 2:59 am Saturday and that all Ryanair flights to and 
from Germany could be affected by the action.
"Ryanair categorically ruled out any increase in pay over the course of the negotiations," said VC chief Martin 
Locher during a press conference. "At the same time, Ryanair did not give any signal as to where there may be 
leeway to find solutions."
Twenty-two of the nearly 400 cancelled flights are to and from Sweden. Most of Ryanair's flights at the regional 
Skvasta airport, about 100 kilometres south of Stockholm, will be affected, according to the head of the country's 
pilots' union.
"No talks are currently under way between Ryanair and the Swedish pilots' union (SPF)," union head Martin 
Lindgren told Swedish Radio on Wednesday. "Ryanair refuses to meet with the SPF representatives we have 
selected."
Ryanair cuts nearly 400 flights ahead of pilot strike in 4 countries
Two weeks ago, Ryanair crew in Portugal, Spain and Belgium walked off the job, forcing the budget airline to cancel 
some 600 flights over the course of two days. The action affected around 100,000 passengers.
Both pilots and crew are demanding better pay and conditions, which Ryanair has declined to grant thus far.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Rachel More, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair cuts nearly 400 flights ahead of pilot strike in 4 countries
Ryanair cuts nearly 400 flights ahead of pilot strike in 4 countries
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 8, 2018 Wednesday 2:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 336 words
Body
       By Christian Ebner, dpa   BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - Budget airline Ryanair has cancelled 250 flights scheduled for 
Friday in response to an announcement from the German pilots' union that its members would join a strike by 
Ryanair pilots in Sweden, Ireland and Belgium.  The move comes on top of 146 other cancellations announced 
several days ago due to the coinciding pilot strikes in three other countries, taking the total number of cancellations 
to nearly 400. It will be the biggest strike in the airline's history.  Ryanair's marketing chief Kenny Jacobs said 
passengers booked on the cancelled flights would be able to change their time of departure free of charge or get 
their money back. 
  The announcement came several hours after the Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) union said its members would join a 
strike taking place between 3:01 am (0101 GMT) Friday and 2:59 am Saturday and that all Ryanair flights to and 
from Germany could be affected by the action.  'Ryanair categorically ruled out any increase in pay over the course 
of the negotiations,' said VC chief Martin Locher during a press conference. 'At the same time, Ryanair did not give 
any signal as to where there may be leeway to find solutions.'  Twenty-two of the nearly 400 cancelled flights are to 
and from Sweden. Most of Ryanair's flights at the regional Skvasta airport, about 100 kilometres south of 
Stockholm, will be affected, according to the head of the country's pilots' union.  'No talks are currently under way 
between Ryanair and the Swedish pilots' union (SPF),' union head Martin Lindgren told Swedish Radio on 
Wednesday. 'Ryanair refuses to meet with the SPF representatives we have selected.'  Two weeks ago, Ryanair 
crew in Portugal, Spain and Belgium walked off the job, forcing the budget airline to cancel some 600 flights over 
the course of two days. The action affected around 100,000 passengers.  Both pilots and crew are demanding 
better pay and conditions, which Ryanair has declined to grant thus far.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 8, 2018
End of Document
Aviation industry told to attract more female pilots Airlines ; Executive warns of possible shortage 'crisis' as 
demand for flights grows
Aviation industry told to attract more female pilots; Airlines ; Executive 
warns of possible shortage 'crisis' as demand for flights grows
Financial Times (London, England)
August 8, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 364 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
The male-dominated aviation industry needs to attract more women into the workforce to avoid the "impending 
crisis" of not having enough pilots, a senior executive has warned.
Angela Gittens, director-general of the Airports Council International, said that if demand for flights continued to rise 
rapidly, men alone could not provide sufficient pilots.
According to the International Society of Women Airline Pilots, only 6.7 per cent of pilots are female.
"The fact is that if you ignore half of the world's population, we'll never get there," said Ms Gittens.
Aerospace manufacturer Airbus has projected that the industry will need 530,000 new pilots in the next 20 years, as 
well as 550,000 new technicians.
Ms Gittens was speaking ahead of the first Global Aviation Gender Summit, opening in Cape Town, South Africa, 
today.
She said: "Aviation in general has a difficult enough time luring the best and brightest over to our industry ... It's not 
a track that girls and young women are particularly aware of. We need to reverse that."
Aviation industry told to attract more female pilots Airlines ; Executive warns of possible shortage 'crisis' as 
demand for flights grows
Ms Gittens said improving the gender balance in the industry was also a question of fairness.
Airlines are already facing pilot shortages: a rostering problem with insufficient staff last year forced Ryanair to 
cancel thousands of flights.
In June, Akbar Al Baker, chief executive of Qatar Airways, caused a stir when he said that a woman could not do 
his job. He quickly apologised.
When he made the comment, he had just been appointed chairman of the International Air Transport Association's 
board of governors, which has only two women among its 30 members.
Fang Liu, the first female secretarygeneral of the International Civil Aviation Organization, which organised the 
conference, said the industry was looking to other sectors for ideas.
The aviation industry has a serious gender pay gap, with its highest earners - pilots - mostly men and its lowest 
earners - cabin crew - often women.
Ryanair's most recently reported median hourly pay rate for women was 72 per cent lower than for men, easyJet's 
is 46 per cent lower and at British Airways the pay rate for women is 10 per cent lower.
The median pay gap across the whole of the UK is 9.7 per cent.
Load-Date: August 7, 2018
End of Document
Aviation industry told to attract more female pilots; Airlines ; Executive warns of possible shortage 'crisis' as 
demand for flights grows
Aviation industry told to attract more female pilots; Airlines ; Executive 
warns of possible shortage 'crisis' as demand for flights grows
Financial Times (London, England)
August 8, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 364 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
The male-dominated aviation industry needs to attract more women into the workforce to avoid the "impending 
crisis" of not having enough pilots, a senior executive has warned.
Angela Gittens, director-general of the Airports Council International, said that if demand for flights continued to rise 
rapidly, men alone could not provide sufficient pilots.
According to the International Society of Women Airline Pilots, only 6.7 per cent of pilots are female.
"The fact is that if you ignore half of the world's population, we'll never get there," said Ms Gittens.
Aerospace manufacturer Airbus has projected that the industry will need 530,000 new pilots in the next 20 years, as 
well as 550,000 new technicians.
Ms Gittens was speaking ahead of the first Global Aviation Gender Summit, opening in Cape Town, South Africa, 
today.
She said: "Aviation in general has a difficult enough time luring the best and brightest over to our industry ... It's not 
a track that girls and young women are particularly aware of. We need to reverse that."
Aviation industry told to attract more female pilots; Airlines ; Executive warns of possible shortage 'crisis' as 
demand for flights grows
Ms Gittens said improving the gender balance in the industry was also a question of fairness.
Airlines are already facing pilot shortages: a rostering problem with insufficient staff last year forced Ryanair to 
cancel thousands of flights.
In June, Akbar Al Baker, chief executive of Qatar Airways, caused a stir when he said that a woman could not do 
his job. He quickly apologised.
When he made the comment, he had just been appointed chairman of the International Air Transport Association's 
board of governors, which has only two women among its 30 members.
Fang Liu, the first female secretarygeneral of the International Civil Aviation Organization, which organised the 
conference, said the industry was looking to other sectors for ideas.
The aviation industry has a serious gender pay gap, with its highest earners - pilots - mostly men and its lowest 
earners - cabin crew - often women.
Ryanair's most recently reported median hourly pay rate for women was 72 per cent lower than for men, easyJet's 
is 46 per cent lower and at British Airways the pay rate for women is 10 per cent lower.
The median pay gap across the whole of the UK is 9.7 per cent.
Load-Date: August 7, 2018
End of Document
Aviation industry told to attract more female pilots Airlines ; Executive warns of possible shortage 'crisis' as 
demand for flights grows
Aviation industry told to attract more female pilots; Airlines ; Executive 
warns of possible shortage 'crisis' as demand for flights grows
Financial Times (London, England)
August 8, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 364 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
The male-dominated aviation industry needs to attract more women into the workforce to avoid the "impending 
crisis" of not having enough pilots, a senior executive has warned.
Angela Gittens, director-general of the Airports Council International, said that if demand for flights continued to rise 
rapidly, men alone could not provide sufficient pilots.
According to the International Society of Women Airline Pilots, only 6.7 per cent of pilots are female.
"The fact is that if you ignore half of the world's population, we'll never get there," said Ms Gittens.
Aerospace manufacturer Airbus has projected that the industry will need 530,000 new pilots in the next 20 years, as 
well as 550,000 new technicians.
Ms Gittens was speaking ahead of the first Global Aviation Gender Summit, opening in Cape Town, South Africa, 
today.
She said: "Aviation in general has a difficult enough time luring the best and brightest over to our industry ... It's not 
a track that girls and young women are particularly aware of. We need to reverse that."
Aviation industry told to attract more female pilots Airlines ; Executive warns of possible shortage 'crisis' as 
demand for flights grows
Ms Gittens said improving the gender balance in the industry was also a question of fairness.
Airlines are already facing pilot shortages: a rostering problem with insufficient staff last year forced Ryanair to 
cancel thousands of flights.
In June, Akbar Al Baker, chief executive of Qatar Airways, caused a stir when he said that a woman could not do 
his job. He quickly apologised.
When he made the comment, he had just been appointed chairman of the International Air Transport Association's 
board of governors, which has only two women among its 30 members.
Fang Liu, the first female secretarygeneral of the International Civil Aviation Organization, which organised the 
conference, said the industry was looking to other sectors for ideas.
The aviation industry has a serious gender pay gap, with its highest earners - pilots - mostly men and its lowest 
earners - cabin crew - often women.
Ryanair's most recently reported median hourly pay rate for women was 72 per cent lower than for men, easyJet's 
is 46 per cent lower and at British Airways the pay rate for women is 10 per cent lower.
The median pay gap across the whole of the UK is 9.7 per cent.
Load-Date: August 7, 2018
End of Document
Aviation industry told to attract more female pilots; Airlines ; Executive warns of possible shortage 'crisis' as 
demand for flights grows
Aviation industry told to attract more female pilots; Airlines ; Executive 
warns of possible shortage 'crisis' as demand for flights grows
Financial Times (London, England)
August 8, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 364 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
The male-dominated aviation industry needs to attract more women into the workforce to avoid the "impending 
crisis" of not having enough pilots, a senior executive has warned.
Angela Gittens, director-general of the Airports Council International, said that if demand for flights continued to rise 
rapidly, men alone could not provide sufficient pilots.
According to the International Society of Women Airline Pilots, only 6.7 per cent of pilots are female.
"The fact is that if you ignore half of the world's population, we'll never get there," said Ms Gittens.
Aerospace manufacturer Airbus has projected that the industry will need 530,000 new pilots in the next 20 years, as 
well as 550,000 new technicians.
Ms Gittens was speaking ahead of the first Global Aviation Gender Summit, opening in Cape Town, South Africa, 
today.
She said: "Aviation in general has a difficult enough time luring the best and brightest over to our industry ... It's not 
a track that girls and young women are particularly aware of. We need to reverse that."
Aviation industry told to attract more female pilots; Airlines ; Executive warns of possible shortage 'crisis' as 
demand for flights grows
Ms Gittens said improving the gender balance in the industry was also a question of fairness.
Airlines are already facing pilot shortages: a rostering problem with insufficient staff last year forced Ryanair to 
cancel thousands of flights.
In June, Akbar Al Baker, chief executive of Qatar Airways, caused a stir when he said that a woman could not do 
his job. He quickly apologised.
When he made the comment, he had just been appointed chairman of the International Air Transport Association's 
board of governors, which has only two women among its 30 members.
Fang Liu, the first female secretarygeneral of the International Civil Aviation Organization, which organised the 
conference, said the industry was looking to other sectors for ideas.
The aviation industry has a serious gender pay gap, with its highest earners - pilots - mostly men and its lowest 
earners - cabin crew - often women.
Ryanair's most recently reported median hourly pay rate for women was 72 per cent lower than for men, easyJet's 
is 46 per cent lower and at British Airways the pay rate for women is 10 per cent lower.
The median pay gap across the whole of the UK is 9.7 per cent.
Load-Date: August 7, 2018
End of Document
German pilots join Friday's strike at budget airline Ryanair
German pilots join Friday's strike at budget airline Ryanair
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 8, 2018 Wednesday 12:51 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 198 words
Dateline: FRANKFURT, Germany 
Body
FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - Budget airline Ryanair said Wednesday it is cancelling 400 of over 2,400 flights on 
Friday due to a strike by pilots in Ireland, Sweden, Belgium and Germany at the height of the vacation travel 
season.
The airline says 85 percent of its Friday flights would operate and that affected customers would get email or text 
messages later on Wednesday. They would have the option of a refund, rebooking on the next flight or rerouting.
Officials said flights should return to normal Saturday.
German pilot representatives said at a news conference Wednesday at Frankfurt's airport that they were joining the 
strike action because they want pay and work conditions comparable to those at Ryanair's competitors.
The company called the strike "unjustified and unnecessary" given recent pay increases and "invitations to meet for 
meaning negotiations." The airline has been hit with strikes by flight attendants in Spain, Portugal and Belgium. Irish 
pilots have held four strike days.
Ryanair built its low-cost business model without unions but said last year it would recognize them. Labor 
representatives are seeking collective bargaining agreements in the different countries.
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair cancels 250 flights after German pilots join Friday strike
Ryanair cancels 250 flights after German pilots join Friday strike
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 8, 2018 Wednesday 2:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 94 words
Body
       BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - Budget airline Ryanair has cancelled 250 additional flights on Friday in response to the 
announcement by the German pilots' union that its members would join a strike by Ryanair pilots in Sweden, Ireland 
and Belgium.  The airline's marketing chief Kenny Jacobs said passengers booked on those flights would be able to 
change their time of departure free of charge or receive their money back.   Ryanair had already cancelled 146 of 
its 2,400 Friday flights before the Vereinigung Cockpit union's announcement on Wednesday.  /hef/rmo/DP    
Load-Date: August 8, 2018
End of Document
Pilot strike forces Ryanair to cancel 250 flights in and out of Germany
Pilot strike forces Ryanair to cancel 250 flights in and out of Germany
Business World (Digest)
August 08, 2018 Wednesday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 124 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair was forced to cancel 250 flights scheduled to run to and from Germany on Friday after pilots there 
announced they would join a 24-hour walkout planned in Ireland, Sweden and Belgium.
The cancellations in Germany represent around 10% of the more than 2,400 flights it has scheduled across Europe 
that day. Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer Kenny Jacobs said the airline typically operates 250 flights in and out of 
Germany a day using crews based there.
Europe's biggest airline by passengers, which is struggling to agree labor deals with trade unions whom it agreed to 
recognize for the first time last year, has already canceled 146 flights in the three other countries impacted by 
Friday's planned action. (Reuters)
Source:www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 6, 2018
End of Document
German pilots' union announces Ryanair strike on Friday
German pilots' union announces Ryanair strike on Friday
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 8, 2018 Wednesday 11:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 34 words
Byline: Friederike Heine
Dateline: Berlin (dpa) - 
Body
A German pilots' union has called on its members to join a strike on Friday alongside other Ryanair pilots from 
Sweden, Ireland and Belgium.
Editorial contactsTel: +49 30 2852 31472; <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
URGENT: German pilots' union announces Ryanair strike on Friday
URGENT: German pilots' union announces Ryanair strike on Friday
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 8, 2018 Wednesday 11:13 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 31 words
Body
       BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - A German pilots' union has called on its members to join a strike on Friday alongside 
other Ryanair pilots from Sweden, Ireland and Belgium.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 8, 2018
End of Document
German pilots to join major strike action against Ryanair on Friday
German pilots to join major strike action against Ryanair on Friday
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 8, 2018 Wednesday 11:23 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 118 words
Byline: Friederike Heine
Dateline: Berlin (dpa) - 
Body
German pilots' union Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) has called on its members to join a strike on Friday alongside other 
Ryanair pilots from Sweden, Ireland and Belgium.
The union announced on Wednesday that the strike would take place between 3:01 am (0101 GMT) Friday and 
2:59 am Saturday and that all Ryanair flights to and from Germany could be affected by the action.
German Ryanair pilots will join a previously announced strike by their counterparts in Sweden, Ireland and Belgium, 
which would make it the largest industrial action by pilots in the budget airline's history.
Ryanair has already cancelled 146 of its 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday.
Editorial contactsTel: +49 30 2852 31472; <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
DEVELOPING
DEVELOPING
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 8, 2018 Wednesday 11:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 128 words
Body
       German pilots to join major strike action against Ryanair on Friday   BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - German pilots' union 
Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) has called on its members to join a strike on Friday alongside other Ryanair pilots from 
Sweden, Ireland and Belgium.  The union announced on Wednesday that the strike would take place between 3:01 
am (0101 GMT) Friday and 2:59 am Saturday and that all Ryanair flights to and from Germany could be affected by 
the action.  German Ryanair pilots will join a previously announced strike by their counterparts in Sweden, Ireland 
and Belgium, which would make it the largest industrial action by pilots in the budget airline's history.  Ryanair has 
already cancelled 146 of its 2,400 scheduled flights on Friday.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 8, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair cancels 250 flights after German pilots join Friday strike
Ryanair cancels 250 flights after German pilots join Friday strike
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 8, 2018 Wednesday 2:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 86 words
Dateline: Berlin (dpa) - 
Body
Budget airline Ryanair has cancelled 250 additional flights on Friday in response to the announcement by the 
German pilots' union that its members would join a strike by Ryanair pilots in Sweden, Ireland and Belgium.
The airline's marketing chief Kenny Jacobs said passengers booked on those flights would be able to change their 
time of departure free of charge or receive their money back.
Ryanair had already cancelled 146 of its 2,400 Friday flights before the Vereinigung Cockpit union's announcement 
on Wednesday.
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Pilots To Strike On Friday
Ryanair Pilots To Strike On Friday
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 8, 2018 Wednesday 12:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 71 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair pilots in Sweden, Belgium and Ireland have voted to stage a 24-hour strike on 
Friday 10 August, grounding 146 flights.  The strike is to begin shortly after midnight on Friday and is expected to 
affect all flights of the Irish airline from and to Germany, the Vereiniging Cockpit (VC) union said in a statement.  
The VC regrets the impact on affected passengers, cabin crews and ground crew.      
Load-Date: August 8, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair proposes mediator for Irish pilots union talks
Ryanair proposes mediator for Irish pilots union talks
Business World (Digest)
August 07, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 386 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair proposed that a third-party mediator join talks with a trade union representing its Irish pilots who went on 
strike for a fourth time on Friday before wider stoppages planned around Europe next week.
The Forsa trade union, which had called for such mediation, welcomed Ryanair's response and said it would 
recommend it to pilots.
Europe's biggest airline by passenger numbers agreed to recognise unions for the first time late last year but 
negotiations since have faltered.
It has seen strikes in some of its biggest markets including Ireland, Spain and Italy as it struggles to reach collective 
labour agreements with trade unions.
Around a quarter of Ryanair's 350 pilots based in Ireland have taken part in a series of one-day strikes and a 
number picketed in the rain outside Dublin airport on Friday morning.
Ryanair has limited the damage from the Irish strikes so far and said passengers on the 20 flights it cancelled from 
the 300 that flew in and out of Ireland on Friday were either put on another flight or refunded.
However it faces greater disruption next Friday with Irish pilots joining colleagues in Sweden and Belgium on strike, 
and Ryanair braced for action in Germany and the Netherlands on the same day.
So far that has forced Ryanair to cancel 6% of the more than 2,400 flights it has scheduled across Europe next 
Friday - a further 20 to and from Ireland, 22 in and out of Sweden and 104 in Belgium.
Ryanair proposes mediator for Irish pilots union talks
Ryanair shares were down 0.2% at 12.98 euros by 1455 GMT, near two-year lows and well below the level hit in 
December when it shocked the markets by ending 32 years of refusing to recognise unions.
While the Irish airline has signed recognition deals in some markets, it has failed to do so in others and not yet 
reached any collective labour agreements.
"This is part and parcel of life in aviation when you recognise unions," Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer Kenny 
Jacobs told Ireland's Newstalk radio station, pointing to years of wrangling over pay and conditions at rival 
Lufthansa.
"There is going to be disruption, it will be small, we will manage it... We are making progress around the rest of 
Europe, strikes can be part of that process, they are not helpful, but we will get collective labour agreements in 
place over the autumn in our key markets." (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 4, 2018
End of Document
Prince William Shocks Passengers After Doing This During Glasgow Trip
Prince William Shocks Passengers After Doing This During Glasgow Trip
International Business Times News
August 7, 2018 Tuesday 8:46 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 424 words
Body
Aug 07, 2018( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)  Prince William 
shocked passengers during his trip to Glasgow in 2015. According to Kara Godfrey, a journalist for Express[1], royal 
fans thought that Prince William will travel first class to Glasgow because he was on an official visit to the city in 
Scotland. However, the dad of three opted to fly economy via Ryanair. 
One of the passengers revealed that their flight was delayed for about 20 minutes and didn't know what the problem 
was. They, later on, realized after they landed that it was because Prince William was on board the plane. 'I never 
expected to see him on Ryanair, but it's refreshing to see a member of the royal family take a cheap flight,' the 
passenger said. Godfrey revealed that Prince William also flew with only one bodyguard at that time. He was also 
the first person to get off the plane. A photo of the Duke of Cambridge getting off Ryanair was also captured by one 
of the passengers, and it went viral online. And just like him, Prince Harry has also taken economy flights. Most 
recently, he went to the French Riviera in the New Year. The couple was spotted taking a British Airways flight and 
sitting at the end row of the plane close to the toilets. Prince Harry and Markle also had three rows of chair blocked, 
and they disguised themselves by wearing a beanie and sunglasses. When it was time to get off the plane, they 
were also the first two people to leave. They also boarded the plane first before the other passengers. Godfrey told 
Express[2] last week that Prince Harry followed his mom Princess Diana's footsteps by traveling to the French 
Riviera[3]. In 1997, just before she passed away, the Princess of Wales went to the beautiful island with her 
boyfriend Dodi Al Fayed. The latter owned a villa in St. Tropez. Prince William flies economy every now and then. 
Pictured: Prince William attends the Men's Singles final on day thirteen of the Wimbledon Lawn Tennis 
Championships at All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club on July 15, 2018 in London, England. Photo: Getty 
Images/Clive Brunskill [ 1]: https://www.express.co.uk/travel/articles/999698/prince-william-latest-news-pictures-
ryanair-flight-glasgow [ 2]:            https://www.express.co.uk/travel/articles/998414/meghan-markle-prince-harry-
latest-travel-news-british-airways-plane 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/retropolis/wp/2017/08/30/dianas-last-day-dodis-yacht-a-ritz-suite-a-
diamond-ring-and-relentless-photographers/ 
Load-Date: August 7, 2018
End of Document
German pilot union prepares to announce Ryanair strike
German pilot union prepares to announce Ryanair strike
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 7, 2018 Tuesday 12:22 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 181 words
Byline: Christian Ebner in Frankfurt
Dateline: Frankfurt (dpa) - 
Body
German pilots' union Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) is preparing to announce strike action, with a spokesman saying on 
Tuesday that a midnight deadline passed without the union receiving an improved offer for pay and conditions from 
budget carrier Ryanair.
The spokesman said a strike plan would be announced at 11 am (0900 GMT) on Wednesday. The stoppage is 
expected to include all 400 German Ryanair pilots, who could walk out at 24 hours' notice.
Last week, 96 per cent of the VC union's members voted in favour of industrial action.
The deadline comes three days after Irish Ryanair pilots held a 24-hour strike. It also comes ahead of a strike on 
Friday organized by pilots unions in Sweden, Belgium and Ireland that has prompted Ryanair to cancel 146 of its 
2,400 planned flights that day.
The airline said last week that it had issued notices of possible redundancy to 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew after 
its board approved a plan to cut its Dublin-based fleet from 30 to 24 aircraft over the winter.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Friederike HeineTel: +49 30 2852 31472; <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: August 8, 2018
End of Document
German pilot union prepares to announce Ryanair strike
German pilot union prepares to announce Ryanair strike
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 7, 2018 Tuesday 12:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 175 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - German pilots' union Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) is preparing to announce strike 
action, with a spokesman saying on Tuesday that a midnight deadline passed without the union receiving an 
improved offer for pay and conditions from budget carrier Ryanair.  The spokesman said a strike plan would be 
announced at 11 am (0900 GMT) on Wednesday. The stoppage is expected to include all 400 German Ryanair 
pilots, who could walk out at 24 hours' notice.  Last week, 96 per cent of the VC union's members voted in favour of 
industrial action.  The deadline comes three days after Irish Ryanair pilots held a 24-hour strike. It also comes 
ahead of a strike on Friday organized by pilots unions in Sweden, Belgium and Ireland that has prompted Ryanair 
to cancel 146 of its 2,400 planned flights that day.  The airline said last week that it had issued notices of possible 
redundancy to 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew after its board approved a plan to cut its Dublin-based fleet from 30 to 
24 aircraft over the winter.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 7, 2018
End of Document
Sector Update: Consumer Discretionary Stocks Outpacing Shares of Consumer Staple Companies
Sector Update: Consumer Discretionary Stocks Outpacing Shares of 
Consumer Staple Companies
MT Newswires Live Briefs
August 6, 2018 Monday 1:57 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 250 words
Body
 Top Consumer Stocks
WMT -0.03% 
MCD +0.37% 
DIS +1.67% 
CVS +0.45% 
KO +0.36% 
Consumer stocks were tilting higher Monday, with shares of consumer staples companies in the S&P 500 climbing 
almost 0.4% in afternoon trading while shares of consumer discretionary firms in the S&P 500 were gaining more 
than 0.7%. 
Among consumer stocks moving on news: 
+ Nevada Gold & Casinos Inc. (UWN) raced almost 12% at one point Monday after the mini-casino operator late 
Friday said it was in exclusive discussions to sell the company. The company did not identify the potential buyer 
and did not provide additional details about the ongoing talks while board chairman William Sherlock said the 
company will not provide updates until the talks either produce a deal or otherwise conclude.
In other sector news:
- Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) was narrowly lower Monday after German pilots working for the budget carrier have 
voted to strike and could leave their cockpits with 24 hours notice, adding to Ryanair's labor woes. More than 96% 
Sector Update: Consumer Discretionary Stocks Outpacing Shares of Consumer Staple Companies
of Vereinigung Cockpit member reportedly favored the strike, according to news briefs published Monday. Earlier, 
the airline reported a 4% rise in July traffic over year-aqgo levels. 
- LGI Homes (LGIH) fell nearly 3% on Monday, after the homebuilder closed on fewer homes during July compared 
with July 2017. Also, through the first seven months of the year, the company closed 3,597 home sales, a 25.6% 
increase to the same period last year.
Price: 2.35, Change: +0.20, Percent Change: +9.26
Load-Date: August 7, 2018
End of Document
Sector Update: Consumer Discretionary Stocks Maintain Solid Gains into Close
Sector Update: Consumer Discretionary Stocks Maintain Solid Gains into 
Close
MT Newswires Live Briefs
August 6, 2018 Monday 4:03 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 327 words
Body
 Top Consumer Stocks
WMT +0.08% 
MCD +0.31% 
DIS +1.86% 
CVS +0.19% 
KO +0.04% 
Consumer stocks continue to tilt higher today, with shares of consumer staples companies in the S&P 500 climbing 
less than 0.1% this afternoon while shares of consumer discretionary firms in the S&P 500 were gaining more than 
0.6%. 
Among consumer stocks moving on news: 
+ Lions Gate Entertainment (LGF-A,LGF-B) edged higher Monday after the movie and television studio Monday 
said it has signed a long-term agreement with music publisher Universal Music Publishing Group, which will 
represent Lionsgate's music publishing properties worldwide, including musical compositions and scores. The 
companies also will work together to create in-house opportunities by leveraging Universal Music's global roster of 
songwriters and music catalog for creative use in Lionsgate content. 
In other sector news:
Sector Update: Consumer Discretionary Stocks Maintain Solid Gains into Close
+ Nevada Gold & Casinos Inc. (UWN) raced almost 12% at one point Monday after the mini-casino operator late 
Friday said it was in exclusive discussions to sell the company. The company did not identify the potential buyer 
and did not provide additional details about the ongoing talks while board chairman William Sherlock said the 
company will not provide updates any until the talks either produce a deal or otherwise conclude.
- Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) was narrowly lower Monday after German pilots working for the budget carrier have 
voted to strike and could leave their cockpits with 24 hours notice, adding to Ryanair's labor woes. More than 96% 
of Vereinigung Cockpit members reportedly favored the strike, according to news briefs published Monday. Earlier, 
the airline reported a 4% rise in July traffic over year-aqo levels. 
- LGI Homes (LGIH) fell nearly 3% on Monday, after the homebuilder closed on fewer homes during July compared 
with July 2017. Also, through the first seven months of the year, the company closed 3,597 home sales, a 25.6% 
increase to the same period last year.
Load-Date: August 7, 2018
End of Document
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 6, 2018 Monday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 834 words
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the weekly planner please call or email the dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-
Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 8064 Email: 
international@dpa.com
MONDAY, AUGUST 6
WASHINGTON/TEHRAN: US sanctions against Iran set to come back into effect at 11:59 pm (0359 GMT 
Tuesday) after Trump administration pulled out of nuclear deal
PARIS: Decision expected in French far-right leader Marine Le Pen's appeal against veto of 2-million-euro state 
subsidy payment
LONDON: A former Uruguayan diplomat goes on trial at London's Old Bailey court for allegedly murdering his 
neighbour
BERLIN: Deadline set by German pilots in dispute over pay conditions at Ryanair ends
HIROSHIMA, JAPAN: Japan observes the anniversary of the 1945 US atomic bombing on Hiroshima
NUSA DUA, INDONESIA: Delegates from 45 countries and the UN Refugee Agency meet for the Bali Process to 
tackle people smuggling
BERLIN: The European Athletics Championships take place in the German capital
TOKYO: Japanese telecoms giant SoftBank releases financial results for the April-to-June quarter
_____________________________________________
TUESDAY, AUGUST 7
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
BOGOTA: Colombia's new president Ivan Duque is sworn in, ushering in an era of uncertainty for the country's 
peace deal with FARC rebels
FREIBURG, GERMANY: A court is expected to sentence a mother and her partner who offered up her child on the 
darknet for sex in Germany
TOKYO: UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres visits Japan (until August 9)
LOS ANGELES: Walt Disney reports its third-quarter results
LUXEMBOURG: A top EU court advisor weighs in on the impact of Brexit on EU arrest warrants
WIESBADEN, GERMANY: Germany reports trade figures for June
LUXEMBOURG: A top EU court rules on a copyright challenge over a photo reproduced in a Spanish school 
newspaper
_____________________________________________
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 8
NEW YORK: New York City Council is due to vote on capping Uber and other taxi apps
YANGON: 30 years since the beginning of the student-led uprising that propelled Aung San Suu Kyi to leader of 
Myanmar's democracy movement
* KUALA LUMPUR: Lawyers and judge discuss upcoming trial of Malaysia's former prime minister Najib Razak, 
suspected of misappropriating state funds
KINSHASA: Deadline for candidates in Congo's presidential election to register
BEIJING: China reports trade figures for July
AMIENS, FRANCE: Britain's Prince William attends a ceremony to mark the 100th anniversary of the Battle of 
Amiens
NEW YORK: 21st Century Fox reports fourth-quarter results
_____________________________________________
THURSDAY, AUGUST 9
NAGASAKI, JAPAN: Japan marks the anniversary of the 1945 US atomic bombing on Nagasaki, with UN Secretary 
General Antonio Guterres attending the ceremony
BUENOS AIRES: The International Tango Festival kicks off in Argentina (until August 22)
SINGAPORE: Singapore celebrates its 53rd birthday with a public holiday after gaining independence from 
Malaysia in 1965
TOKYO: Japan reports machinery orders for June
BEIJING: China's National Bureau of Statistics reports inflation rate projection for August
GUCA, SERBIA: Guca's annual trumpet festival is expected to attract tens of thousands with music, brandy and 
barbecue (until August 12)
_____________________________________________
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
LONDON: Plea hearing for Muslim convert accused of planning a van attack on London's Oxford Street attack 
plans.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND: Start of Premier League 2018/19 season with Manchester United v Leicester City
JAKARTA: Deadline for the registration of presidential candidates for Indonesia's 2019 election
TOKYO: Japan to release GDP data for April-June quarter
PETERBOROUGH, ENGLAND: British astronaut Tim Peake visits the English city's cathedral as part of a 
nationwide tour with the descent module that brought him back to Earth
_____________________________________________
SATURDAY, AUGUST 11
CAPE CANAVERAL, FLORIDA: Targeted launch of NASA's Parker Solar Probe, which is set to get closer to the 
sun than ever before
ZURICH: The Zurich Street Parade transforms the Swiss city into one of the world's largest techno partys
_____________________________________________
SUNDAY, AUGUST 12
BELMOPAN: Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen travels to Belize and Paraguay, with US stopovers expected to 
unnerve Beijing (until August 20)
* BAMAKO: A run-off vote is set to take place in Mali's presidential race between incumbent Ibrahim Boubacar 
Keita and Soumaila Cisse
MOSCOW: Moscow's Gorky Park - popular with locals and tourists alike - celebrates its 90th anniversary
BANGKOK: Thailand's Queen Sirikit turns 86, but is not expected to appear in public due to her deteriorating health
AQTAU, KAZAKHSTAN: Leaders from Russia, Azerbaijan, Iran, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan convene for a 
summit in Aqtau
BERLIN: German far-right leader Alexander Gauland gives his summer interview with public broadcaster ZDF
LONDON: The "Glorious 12th" marks the start of Britain's controversial grouse shooting season
Load-Date: August 7, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Receives Average Recommendation of 'Hold' from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives Average Recommendation of 'Hold' 
from Brokerages
Watchlist News
August 6, 2018 Monday 4:07 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 699 words
Body
Aug 06, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) has been given an average rating of "Hold" by the twelve brokerages that are presently 
covering the stock, MarketBeat[1] reports. Four equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, 
five have issued a hold rating and three have given a buy rating to the company.Several brokerages recently 
commented on RYAAY. BidaskClub raised Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a report on Friday, 
May 25th. 
Deutsche Bank lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Zacks 
Investment Research[2] raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $138.00 price objective for 
the company in a report on Wednesday, April 11th. BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, Exane BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th.Shares of RYAAY[3] traded down $0.42 
during trading hours on Friday, hitting $100.00. The stock had a trading volume of 3,434 shares, compared to its 
average volume of 347,098. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.72, a current ratio of 1.12 and a quick ratio 
of 1.12. Ryanair has a 12 month low of $98.27 and a 12 month high of $127.61. The firm has a market capitalization 
of $23.52 billion, a P/E ratio of 14.24 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly 
earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping the 
Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 29.19% and a net 
margin of 18.47%. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of 
$1.56 billion. analysts expect that Ryanair will post 6.72 EPS for the current fiscal year. A number of large investors 
have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the business. Sei Investments Co. grew its holdings in Ryanair by 
40.7% during the second quarter. Sei Investments Co. now owns 83,012 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $9,483,000 after purchasing an additional 24,022 shares during the period. Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS bought a new position in shares of Ryanair in the second quarter 
worth about $23,704,000. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 
14.5% in the second quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,539,197 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $290,053,000 after acquiring an additional 321,859 shares during the period. 
First Mercantile Trust Co. boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 28.8% in the second quarter. First Mercantile 
Trust Co. now owns 6,135 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $701,000 after acquiring an 
additional 1,370 shares during the period. Finally, Baillie Gifford .... boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 2.3% 
in the second quarter. Baillie Gifford .... now owns 5,936,962 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Receives Average Recommendation of 'Hold' from Brokerages
$678,179,000 after acquiring an additional 133,294 shares during the period. 43.88% of the stock is owned by 
institutional investors and hedge funds. About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides 
scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It 
also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and 
markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale 
of beverages, food, and merchandise.Featured Story: Should I follow buy, hold and sell recommendations? [4] [ 1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 3]:       
     https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 4]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/stock-ratings-recommendations-analysts-upgrades-downgrades/ 
Load-Date: August 6, 2018
End of Document
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 6, 2018 Monday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 834 words
Byline: Helen Livingstone, +61 2 9322 8065, <, international@dpa.com, ;
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the weekly planner please call or email the dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-
Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 8064 Email: 
international@dpa.com
MONDAY, AUGUST 6
WASHINGTON/TEHRAN: US sanctions against Iran set to come back into effect at 11:59 pm (0359 GMT 
Tuesday) after Trump administration pulled out of nuclear deal
PARIS: Decision expected in French far-right leader Marine Le Pen's appeal against veto of 2-million-euro state 
subsidy payment
LONDON: A former Uruguayan diplomat goes on trial at London's Old Bailey court for allegedly murdering his 
neighbour
BERLIN: Deadline set by German pilots in dispute over pay conditions at Ryanair ends
HIROSHIMA, JAPAN: Japan observes the anniversary of the 1945 US atomic bombing on Hiroshima
NUSA DUA, INDONESIA: Delegates from 45 countries and the UN Refugee Agency meet for the Bali Process to 
tackle people smuggling
BERLIN: The European Athletics Championships take place in the German capital
TOKYO: Japanese telecoms giant SoftBank releases financial results for the April-to-June quarter
_____________________________________________
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
TUESDAY, AUGUST 7
BOGOTA: Colombia's new president Ivan Duque is sworn in, ushering in an era of uncertainty for the country's 
peace deal with FARC rebels
FREIBURG, GERMANY: A court is expected to sentence a mother and her partner who offered up her child on the 
darknet for sex in Germany
TOKYO: UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres visits Japan (until August 9)
LOS ANGELES: Walt Disney reports its third-quarter results
LUXEMBOURG: A top EU court advisor weighs in on the impact of Brexit on EU arrest warrants
WIESBADEN, GERMANY: Germany reports trade figures for June
LUXEMBOURG: A top EU court rules on a copyright challenge over a photo reproduced in a Spanish school 
newspaper
_____________________________________________
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 8
NEW YORK: New York City Council is due to vote on capping Uber and other taxi apps
YANGON: 30 years since the beginning of the student-led uprising that propelled Aung San Suu Kyi to leader of 
Myanmar's democracy movement
* KUALA LUMPUR: Lawyers and judge discuss upcoming trial of Malaysia's former prime minister Najib Razak, 
suspected of misappropriating state funds
KINSHASA: Deadline for candidates in Congo's presidential election to register
BEIJING: China reports trade figures for July
AMIENS, FRANCE: Britain's Prince William attends a ceremony to mark the 100th anniversary of the Battle of 
Amiens
NEW YORK: 21st Century Fox reports fourth-quarter results
_____________________________________________
THURSDAY, AUGUST 9
NAGASAKI, JAPAN: Japan marks the anniversary of the 1945 US atomic bombing on Nagasaki, with UN Secretary 
General Antonio Guterres attending the ceremony
BUENOS AIRES: The International Tango Festival kicks off in Argentina (until August 22)
SINGAPORE: Singapore celebrates its 53rd birthday with a public holiday after gaining independence from 
Malaysia in 1965
TOKYO: Japan reports machinery orders for June
BEIJING: China's National Bureau of Statistics reports inflation rate projection for August
GUCA, SERBIA: Guca's annual trumpet festival is expected to attract tens of thousands with music, brandy and 
barbecue (until August 12)
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
_____________________________________________
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
LONDON: Plea hearing for Muslim convert accused of planning a van attack on London's Oxford Street attack 
plans.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND: Start of Premier League 2018/19 season with Manchester United v Leicester City
JAKARTA: Deadline for the registration of presidential candidates for Indonesia's 2019 election
TOKYO: Japan to release GDP data for April-June quarter
PETERBOROUGH, ENGLAND: British astronaut Tim Peake visits the English city's cathedral as part of a 
nationwide tour with the descent module that brought him back to Earth
_____________________________________________
SATURDAY, AUGUST 11
CAPE CANAVERAL, FLORIDA: Targeted launch of NASA's Parker Solar Probe, which is set to get closer to the 
sun than ever before
ZURICH: The Zurich Street Parade transforms the Swiss city into one of the world's largest techno partys
_____________________________________________
SUNDAY, AUGUST 12
BELMOPAN: Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen travels to Belize and Paraguay, with US stopovers expected to 
unnerve Beijing (until August 20)
* BAMAKO: A run-off vote is set to take place in Mali's presidential race between incumbent Ibrahim Boubacar 
Keita and Soumaila Cisse
MOSCOW: Moscow's Gorky Park - popular with locals and tourists alike - celebrates its 90th anniversary
BANGKOK: Thailand's Queen Sirikit turns 86, but is not expected to appear in public due to her deteriorating health
AQTAU, KAZAKHSTAN: Leaders from Russia, Azerbaijan, Iran, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan convene for a 
summit in Aqtau
BERLIN: German far-right leader Alexander Gauland gives his summer interview with public broadcaster ZDF
LONDON: The "Glorious 12th" marks the start of Britain's controversial grouse shooting season
Load-Date: August 6, 2018
End of Document
Sector Update: Consumer Stocks Higher Pre-Bell; Ryanair Reports Traffic Up 4% in July
Sector Update: Consumer Stocks Higher Pre-Bell; Ryanair Reports Traffic 
Up 4% in July
MT Newswires Live Briefs
August 6, 2018 Monday 9:05 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 64 words
Body
 Top Consumer Shares: 
WMT: + 0.1%
MCD: flat
DIS: +0.5%
CVS: flat
KO: flat
PG: flat
Consumer shares were higher ahead of the opening bell on Monday. 
Expected movers:
- Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY): reports July traffic up 4%
- Nevada Gold & Casinos (UWN): in talks with potential suitor
- LGI Homes (LGIH): reports lower July home closings vs yr-ago
Price: 100.91, Change: +0.49, Percent Change: +0.49
Sector Update: Consumer Stocks Higher Pre-Bell; Ryanair Reports Traffic Up 4% in July
Load-Date: August 7, 2018
End of Document
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines Airlines. Budget travel ; Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers 
flight of European carriers to Austrian capital
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines; Airlines. Budget travel ; 
Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers flight of European carriers to Austrian 
capital
Financial Times (London, England)
August 6, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 814 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Until last August, Vienna airport had not been used to attention. But then the airport's second-largest customer 
collapsed - and now it has become a battleground for Europe's low-cost carriers. It is the demise of the Air Berlin 
Group, under (EURO)2bn of losses, that has been largely responsible for the airport's new-found popularity as a 
clutch of carriers attempt to fill the void left by its collapse.
Since last summer, Hungary's Wizz Air and Level, IAG's low-cost long-haul airline, have launched out of Vienna, 
while Lufthansa Group's Eurowings and IAG's Vueling have increased their flights from the Austrian capital.
After a tortuous process, Ryanair took over Niki, which was part of the Air Berlin Group based in Vienna. Lufthansa 
then swallowed up the rest of Air Berlin.
With easyJet establishing its European operations in Vienna in the wake of the Brexit vote, all of Europe's major 
low-cost airlines are now operating out of Austria.
But it is not just the fall of Air Berlin that has prompted the rush to Vienna. A new incentive from the airport for 
lowcost carriers, an appealing regulatory environment and Vienna's booming tourist industry have added to its 
appeal.
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines Airlines. Budget travel ; Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers 
flight of European carriers to Austrian capital
David O'Brien, chief commercial officer of Ryanair, said the airport was "finally incentivising the basing of aircraft 
there", although it remains to a certain degree a high-cost capital-city airport dominated by the Lufthansa Group and 
particularly its Austrian Airlines subsidiary.
József Váradi, chief executive of Wizz Air, added that the airport's management was now "far more commercial", 
and thus willing to attract airlines, than earlier incarnations that relied on the Lufthansa Group, which carried 56 per 
cent of Vienna's passengers before the collapse of Air Berlin.
Julian Jäger, the airport's joint chief executive, thinks it is the airport's volume incentive that has impressed the likes 
of Mr O'Brien and Mr Váradi.
This was introduced in January with the intention of attracting low-cost carriers: airlines that base at least three 
aircraft at Vienna and grow to more than 750,000 departing passengers a year receive a rebate of (EURO)540 per 
hundred people, with more favourable tiers of refunds as passenger numbers climb.
Mr Jäger said the arrival of the lowcost carriers would lead to a 5 per cent growth in flights this year and 6 per cent 
in passenger numbers to 25.9m.
Given that the number of flights to and from the airport had been gently dipping since 2010, this is an important 
change in direction.
The booming tourist industry is another big plus for the airport. Tourism in Vienna grew 4.4 per cent to 15.5m 
overnight stays in 2017, according to the government. Vienna also has geographic charms for airlines, according to 
Mr Jäger, who points out that its catchment area contains parts of Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, and 
that it acts as a bridge between the continent's east and west.
However, it was the void left by Air Berlin that has been most significant, paving the way first for the Lufthansa 
Group to step up its operations and then for Wizz Air to establish a base in Vienna. Wizz Air plans to move three 
aircraft to the airport this year, accounting for 69 weekly flights. Last month, Level announced it would start flying 
from Vienna. Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, which also owns British Airways, said its four aircraft there would 
grow to 30.
Ryanair's involvement came through the complex and eventful purchase of Niki, now known as Laudamotion. This 
followed last month's decision from the European Commission, allowing the airline to raise its share of Laudamotion 
from 25 per cent to 75 per cent, securing its ownership and position at Vienna airport.
IAG, which had also been a bidder for Niki, said that despite not winning it had been "overwhelmed by the support 
from the local market", persuading the group to introduce Level there.
However, Vienna has had its problems and controversies. Its rejected application for a third runway, later 
overturned by a higher court, remains contentious in the eyes of some.
Mr O'Brien, for example, is not convinced the third runway is anything more than "an unnecessary expense", given 
that London Gatwick has only one runway and handles 21m more passengers than Vienna.
Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC, also raised the issue of the difficulties in making profits at the airport. "We 
have no doubt that all these carriers will make significant losses in Vienna," he said in a recent note.
But if it is tough for airlines, competition will bring benefits for passengers with lower fares.
A spokesperson for the Lufthansa Group summed up Vienna's paradoxical attraction. "It's good for the consumer 
and it's a bit hard for the airlines. Vienna is a very difficult market, or will be a very difficult market."
'It's good for the consumer and it's a bit hard for the airlines. Vienna is a very difficult market'
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines Airlines. Budget travel ; Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers 
flight of European carriers to Austrian capital
Graphic
 
On the up: the recent influx of low-cost carriers at Vienna airport will lead to 5 per cent growth in flights this year, 
according to the airport's joint chief executive Julian JägerAlex Halada/AFP
Load-Date: August 5, 2018
End of Document
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines; Airlines. Budget travel ; Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers 
flight of European carriers to Austrian capital
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines; Airlines. Budget travel ; 
Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers flight of European carriers to Austrian 
capital
Financial Times (London, England)
August 6, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 814 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Until last August, Vienna airport had not been used to attention. But then the airport's second-largest customer 
collapsed - and now it has become a battleground for Europe's low-cost carriers. It is the demise of the Air Berlin 
Group, under (EURO)2bn of losses, that has been largely responsible for the airport's new-found popularity as a 
clutch of carriers attempt to fill the void left by its collapse.
Since last summer, Hungary's Wizz Air and Level, IAG's low-cost long-haul airline, have launched out of Vienna, 
while Lufthansa Group's Eurowings and IAG's Vueling have increased their flights from the Austrian capital.
After a tortuous process, Ryanair took over Niki, which was part of the Air Berlin Group based in Vienna. Lufthansa 
then swallowed up the rest of Air Berlin.
With easyJet establishing its European operations in Vienna in the wake of the Brexit vote, all of Europe's major 
low-cost airlines are now operating out of Austria.
But it is not just the fall of Air Berlin that has prompted the rush to Vienna. A new incentive from the airport for 
lowcost carriers, an appealing regulatory environment and Vienna's booming tourist industry have added to its 
appeal.
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines; Airlines. Budget travel ; Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers 
flight of European carriers to Austrian capital
David O'Brien, chief commercial officer of Ryanair, said the airport was "finally incentivising the basing of aircraft 
there", although it remains to a certain degree a high-cost capital-city airport dominated by the Lufthansa Group and 
particularly its Austrian Airlines subsidiary.
József Váradi, chief executive of Wizz Air, added that the airport's management was now "far more commercial", 
and thus willing to attract airlines, than earlier incarnations that relied on the Lufthansa Group, which carried 56 per 
cent of Vienna's passengers before the collapse of Air Berlin.
Julian Jäger, the airport's joint chief executive, thinks it is the airport's volume incentive that has impressed the likes 
of Mr O'Brien and Mr Váradi.
This was introduced in January with the intention of attracting low-cost carriers: airlines that base at least three 
aircraft at Vienna and grow to more than 750,000 departing passengers a year receive a rebate of (EURO)540 per 
hundred people, with more favourable tiers of refunds as passenger numbers climb.
Mr Jäger said the arrival of the lowcost carriers would lead to a 5 per cent growth in flights this year and 6 per cent 
in passenger numbers to 25.9m.
Given that the number of flights to and from the airport had been gently dipping since 2010, this is an important 
change in direction.
The booming tourist industry is another big plus for the airport. Tourism in Vienna grew 4.4 per cent to 15.5m 
overnight stays in 2017, according to the government. Vienna also has geographic charms for airlines, according to 
Mr Jäger, who points out that its catchment area contains parts of Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, and 
that it acts as a bridge between the continent's east and west.
However, it was the void left by Air Berlin that has been most significant, paving the way first for the Lufthansa 
Group to step up its operations and then for Wizz Air to establish a base in Vienna. Wizz Air plans to move three 
aircraft to the airport this year, accounting for 69 weekly flights. Last month, Level announced it would start flying 
from Vienna. Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, which also owns British Airways, said its four aircraft there would 
grow to 30.
Ryanair's involvement came through the complex and eventful purchase of Niki, now known as Laudamotion. This 
followed last month's decision from the European Commission, allowing the airline to raise its share of Laudamotion 
from 25 per cent to 75 per cent, securing its ownership and position at Vienna airport.
IAG, which had also been a bidder for Niki, said that despite not winning it had been "overwhelmed by the support 
from the local market", persuading the group to introduce Level there.
However, Vienna has had its problems and controversies. Its rejected application for a third runway, later 
overturned by a higher court, remains contentious in the eyes of some.
Mr O'Brien, for example, is not convinced the third runway is anything more than "an unnecessary expense", given 
that London Gatwick has only one runway and handles 21m more passengers than Vienna.
Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC, also raised the issue of the difficulties in making profits at the airport. "We 
have no doubt that all these carriers will make significant losses in Vienna," he said in a recent note.
But if it is tough for airlines, competition will bring benefits for passengers with lower fares.
A spokesperson for the Lufthansa Group summed up Vienna's paradoxical attraction. "It's good for the consumer 
and it's a bit hard for the airlines. Vienna is a very difficult market, or will be a very difficult market."
'It's good for the consumer and it's a bit hard for the airlines. Vienna is a very difficult market'
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines; Airlines. Budget travel ; Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers 
flight of European carriers to Austrian capital
Graphic
 
On the up: the recent influx of low-cost carriers at Vienna airport will lead to 5 per cent growth in flights this year, 
according to the airport's joint chief executive Julian Jäger Alex Halada/AFP
Load-Date: August 5, 2018
End of Document
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines Airlines. Budget travel ; Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers 
flight of European carriers to Austrian capital
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines; Airlines. Budget travel ; 
Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers flight of European carriers to Austrian 
capital
Financial Times (London, England)
August 6, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 814 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Until last August, Vienna airport had not been used to attention. But then the airport's second-largest customer 
collapsed - and now it has become a battleground for Europe's low-cost carriers. It is the demise of the Air Berlin 
Group, under (EURO)2bn of losses, that has been largely responsible for the airport's new-found popularity as a 
clutch of carriers attempt to fill the void left by its collapse.
Since last summer, Hungary's Wizz Air and Level, IAG's low-cost long-haul airline, have launched out of Vienna, 
while Lufthansa Group's Eurowings and IAG's Vueling have increased their flights from the Austrian capital.
After a tortuous process, Ryanair took over Niki, which was part of the Air Berlin Group based in Vienna. Lufthansa 
then swallowed up the rest of Air Berlin.
With easyJet establishing its European operations in Vienna in the wake of the Brexit vote, all of Europe's major 
low-cost airlines are now operating out of Austria.
But it is not just the fall of Air Berlin that has prompted the rush to Vienna. A new incentive from the airport for 
lowcost carriers, an appealing regulatory environment and Vienna's booming tourist industry have added to its 
appeal.
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines Airlines. Budget travel ; Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers 
flight of European carriers to Austrian capital
David O'Brien, chief commercial officer of Ryanair, said the airport was "finally incentivising the basing of aircraft 
there", although it remains to a certain degree a high-cost capital-city airport dominated by the Lufthansa Group and 
particularly its Austrian Airlines subsidiary.
József Váradi, chief executive of Wizz Air, added that the airport's management was now "far more commercial", 
and thus willing to attract airlines, than earlier incarnations that relied on the Lufthansa Group, which carried 56 per 
cent of Vienna's passengers before the collapse of Air Berlin.
Julian Jäger, the airport's joint chief executive, thinks it is the airport's volume incentive that has impressed the likes 
of Mr O'Brien and Mr Váradi.
This was introduced in January with the intention of attracting low-cost carriers: airlines that base at least three 
aircraft at Vienna and grow to more than 750,000 departing passengers a year receive a rebate of (EURO)540 per 
hundred people, with more favourable tiers of refunds as passenger numbers climb.
Mr Jäger said the arrival of the lowcost carriers would lead to a 5 per cent growth in flights this year and 6 per cent 
in passenger numbers to 25.9m.
Given that the number of flights to and from the airport had been gently dipping since 2010, this is an important 
change in direction.
The booming tourist industry is another big plus for the airport. Tourism in Vienna grew 4.4 per cent to 15.5m 
overnight stays in 2017, according to the government. Vienna also has geographic charms for airlines, according to 
Mr Jäger, who points out that its catchment area contains parts of Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, and 
that it acts as a bridge between the continent's east and west.
However, it was the void left by Air Berlin that has been most significant, paving the way first for the Lufthansa 
Group to step up its operations and then for Wizz Air to establish a base in Vienna. Wizz Air plans to move three 
aircraft to the airport this year, accounting for 69 weekly flights. Last month, Level announced it would start flying 
from Vienna. Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, which also owns British Airways, said its four aircraft there would 
grow to 30.
Ryanair's involvement came through the complex and eventful purchase of Niki, now known as Laudamotion. This 
followed last month's decision from the European Commission, allowing the airline to raise its share of Laudamotion 
from 25 per cent to 75 per cent, securing its ownership and position at Vienna airport.
IAG, which had also been a bidder for Niki, said that despite not winning it had been "overwhelmed by the support 
from the local market", persuading the group to introduce Level there.
However, Vienna has had its problems and controversies. Its rejected application for a third runway, later 
overturned by a higher court, remains contentious in the eyes of some.
Mr O'Brien, for example, is not convinced the third runway is anything more than "an unnecessary expense", given 
that London Gatwick has only one runway and handles 21m more passengers than Vienna.
Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC, also raised the issue of the difficulties in making profits at the airport. "We 
have no doubt that all these carriers will make significant losses in Vienna," he said in a recent note.
But if it is tough for airlines, competition will bring benefits for passengers with lower fares.
A spokesperson for the Lufthansa Group summed up Vienna's paradoxical attraction. "It's good for the consumer 
and it's a bit hard for the airlines. Vienna is a very difficult market, or will be a very difficult market."
'It's good for the consumer and it's a bit hard for the airlines. Vienna is a very difficult market'
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines Airlines. Budget travel ; Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers 
flight of European carriers to Austrian capital
Graphic
 
On the up: the recent influx of low-cost carriers at Vienna airport will lead to 5 per cent growth in flights this year, 
according to the airport's joint chief executive Julian Jäger Alex Halada/AFP
Load-Date: August 5, 2018
End of Document
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines Airlines. Budget travel ; Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers 
flight of European carriers to Austrian capital
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines; Airlines. Budget travel ; 
Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers flight of European carriers to Austrian 
capital
Financial Times (London, England)
August 6, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 18
Length: 814 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Until last August, Vienna airport had not been used to attention. But then the airport's second-largest customer 
collapsed - and now it has become a battleground for Europe's low-cost carriers. It is the demise of the Air Berlin 
Group, under (EURO)2bn of losses, that has been largely responsible for the airport's new-found popularity as a 
clutch of carriers attempt to fill the void left by its collapse.
Since last summer, Hungary's Wizz Air and Level, IAG's low-cost long-haul airline, have launched out of Vienna, 
while Lufthansa Group's Eurowings and IAG's Vueling have increased their flights from the Austrian capital.
After a tortuous process, Ryanair took over Niki, which was part of the Air Berlin Group based in Vienna. Lufthansa 
then swallowed up the rest of Air Berlin.
With easyJet establishing its European operations in Vienna in the wake of the Brexit vote, all of Europe's major 
low-cost airlines are now operating out of Austria.
But it is not just the fall of Air Berlin that has prompted the rush to Vienna. A new incentive from the airport for 
lowcost carriers, an appealing regulatory environment and Vienna's booming tourist industry have added to its 
appeal.
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines Airlines. Budget travel ; Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers 
flight of European carriers to Austrian capital
David O'Brien, chief commercial officer of Ryanair, said the airport was "finally incentivising the basing of aircraft 
there", although it remains to a certain degree a high-cost capital-city airport dominated by the Lufthansa Group and 
particularly its Austrian Airlines subsidiary.
József Váradi, chief executive of Wizz Air, added that the airport's management was now "far more commercial", 
and thus willing to attract airlines, than earlier incarnations that relied on the Lufthansa Group, which carried 56 per 
cent of Vienna's passengers before the collapse of Air Berlin.
Julian Jäger, the airport's joint chief executive, thinks it is the airport's volume incentive that has impressed the likes 
of Mr O'Brien and Mr Váradi.
This was introduced in January with the intention of attracting low-cost carriers: airlines that base at least three 
aircraft at Vienna and grow to more than 750,000 departing passengers a year receive a rebate of (EURO)540 per 
hundred people, with more favourable tiers of refunds as passenger numbers climb.
Mr Jäger said the arrival of the lowcost carriers would lead to a 5 per cent growth in flights this year and 6 per cent 
in passenger numbers to 25.9m.
Given that the number of flights to and from the airport had been gently dipping since 2010, this is an important 
change in direction.
The booming tourist industry is another big plus for the airport. Tourism in Vienna grew 4.4 per cent to 15.5m 
overnight stays in 2017, according to the government. Vienna also has geographic charms for airlines, according to 
Mr Jäger, who points out that its catchment area contains parts of Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, and 
that it acts as a bridge between the continent's east and west.
However, it was the void left by Air Berlin that has been most significant, paving the way first for the Lufthansa 
Group to step up its operations and then for Wizz Air to establish a base in Vienna. Wizz Air plans to move three 
aircraft to the airport this year, accounting for 69 weekly flights. Last month, Level announced it would start flying 
from Vienna. Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, which also owns British Airways, said its four aircraft there would 
grow to 30.
Ryanair's involvement came through the complex and eventful purchase of Niki, now known as Laudamotion. This 
followed last month's decision from the European Commission, allowing the airline to raise its share of Laudamotion 
from 25 per cent to 75 per cent, securing its ownership and position at Vienna airport.
IAG, which had also been a bidder for Niki, said that despite not winning it had been "overwhelmed by the support 
from the local market", persuading the group to introduce Level there.
However, Vienna has had its problems and controversies. Its rejected application for a third runway, later 
overturned by a higher court, remains contentious in the eyes of some.
Mr O'Brien, for example, is not convinced the third runway is anything more than "an unnecessary expense", given 
that London Gatwick has only one runway and handles 21m more passengers than Vienna.
Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC, also raised the issue of the difficulties in making profits at the airport. "We 
have no doubt that all these carriers will make significant losses in Vienna," he said in a recent note.
But if it is tough for airlines, competition will bring benefits for passengers with lower fares.
A spokesperson for the Lufthansa Group summed up Vienna's paradoxical attraction. "It's good for the consumer 
and it's a bit hard for the airlines. Vienna is a very difficult market, or will be a very difficult market."
'It's good for the consumer and it's a bit hard for the airlines. Vienna is a very difficult market'
Vienna becomes magnet for low-cost airlines Airlines. Budget travel ; Demise of Air Berlin last year triggers 
flight of European carriers to Austrian capital
Graphic
 
On the up: the recent influx of low-cost carriers at Vienna airport will lead to 5 per cent growth in flights this year, 
according to the airport's joint chief executive Julian Jäger Alex Halada/AFP
Load-Date: August 5, 2018
End of Document
German pilots' union yet to receive Ryanair offer as deadline looms
German pilots' union yet to receive Ryanair offer as deadline looms
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 6, 2018 Monday 4:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 170 words
Byline: Christian Ebner in Frankfurt
Dateline: Frankfurt (dpa) - 
Body
German pilots' union Vereinigung Cockpit had not received an improved offer for pay and conditions on Monday, 
just hours before a deadline for the low-budget airline to avoid disruption of its services.
A spokesman for the union said in case no offer is made by 2200 GMT, a strike plan will be announced Wednesday 
that is expected to include all 400 German Ryanair pilots. They could walk out at 24 hours' notice.
Last week, 96 per cent of the union's members voted in favour of industrial action.
The deadline comes three days after Irish Ryanair pilots held a 24-hour strike.
Ryanair said the strike had had "no effect" on passengers since it cancelled 24 of Friday's 300 Ryanair flights to 
and from Ireland more than a week ago.
The airline also said it had issued notices of possible redundancy to 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew after its board 
approved a plan to cut its Dublin-based fleet from 30 to 24 aircraft over the winter.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Friederike HeineTel: +49 30 2852 31472; <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: August 7, 2018
End of Document
German pilots' union yet to receive Ryanair offer as deadline looms
German pilots' union yet to receive Ryanair offer as deadline looms
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 6, 2018 Monday 4:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 164 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - German pilots' union Vereinigung Cockpit had not received an improved offer for 
pay and conditions on Monday, just hours before a deadline for the low-budget airline to avoid disruption of its 
services.  A spokesman for the union said in case no offer is made by 2200 GMT, a strike plan will be announced 
Wednesday that is expected to include all 400 German Ryanair pilots. They could walk out at 24 hours' notice.  Last 
week, 96 per cent of the union's members voted in favour of industrial action.  The deadline comes three days after 
Irish Ryanair pilots held a 24-hour strike.  Ryanair said the strike had had 'no effect' on passengers since it 
cancelled 24 of Friday's 300 Ryanair flights to and from Ireland more than a week ago.  The airline also said it had 
issued notices of possible redundancy to 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew after its board approved a plan to cut its 
Dublin-based fleet from 30 to 24 aircraft over the winter.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 6, 2018
End of Document
Airline tickets: up, up and away
Airline tickets: up, up and away
Financial Times (London, England)
August 4, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 16
Length: 254 words
Body
Americans pioneered no-frills airlines but Europe is where they are flying spectacularly high. Since deregulation in 
1992 prices have tumbled, as passengers starting their summer holidays this weekend will appreciate. The 
cheapest ticket from Milan to Paris would have cost 16 times more in real terms 25 years ago.
Tough competition in Europe - along with higher regulatory costs - makes it harder to make money. Airline profits 
average $7.58 per passenger, less than half the US level. The market is fragmented, with more than 200 airlines 
flying. That is more than twice as many as in the US, where foreigners cannot operate domestic flights.
The economics of the US industry were transformed by mergers. The top six airlines in the US now have 90 per 
cent of the market. Might the European industry, where the top six carriers have just 43 per cent of the market, 
follow a similar path? As weak airlines get clobbered by higher fuel costs, takeovers are likely. In May Ryanair boss 
Michael O'Leary said consolidation would make Europe look more like the US, with four or five very large airlines. 
British Airways-owner IAG has been pursuing budget airline Norwegian Air Shuttle, although yesterday it stressed 
that talks had gone nowhere.
Consolidation is a long-term threat to cheap European fares. Shorterterm, higher fuel prices will push up prices. 
Much also rests on airlines' willingness to curb capacity growth. That is expanding at nearly 6 per cent but is set to 
slow this winter. Enjoy cheap journeys while they last.
Load-Date: August 3, 2018
Airline tickets: up, up and away
End of Document
Airline tickets: up, up and away
Airline tickets: up, up and away
Financial Times (London, England)
August 4, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 16
Length: 254 words
Body
Americans pioneered no-frills airlines but Europe is where they are flying spectacularly high. Since deregulation in 
1992 prices have tumbled, as passengers starting their summer holidays this weekend will appreciate. The 
cheapest ticket from Milan to Paris would have cost 16 times more in real terms 25 years ago.
Tough competition in Europe - along with higher regulatory costs - makes it harder to make money. Airline profits 
average $7.58 per passenger, less than half the US level. The market is fragmented, with more than 200 airlines 
flying. That is more than twice as many as in the US, where foreigners cannot operate domestic flights.
The economics of the US industry were transformed by mergers. The top six airlines in the US now have 90 per 
cent of the market. Might the European industry, where the top six carriers have just 43 per cent of the market, 
follow a similar path? As weak airlines get clobbered by higher fuel costs, takeovers are likely. In May Ryanair boss 
Michael O'Leary said consolidation would make Europe look more like the US, with four or five very large airlines. 
British Airways-owner IAG has been pursuing budget airline Norwegian Air Shuttle, although yesterday it stressed 
that talks had gone nowhere.
Consolidation is a long-term threat to cheap European fares. Shorterterm, higher fuel prices will push up prices. 
Much also rests on airlines' willingness to curb capacity growth. That is expanding at nearly 6 per cent but is set to 
slow this winter. Enjoy cheap journeys while they last.
Load-Date: August 3, 2018
Airline tickets: up, up and away
End of Document
Americans pioneered no-frills airlines but [...]
Americans pioneered no-frills airlines but [...]
Financial Times (London, England)
August 4, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 18
Length: 254 words
Body
Americans pioneered no-frills airlines but Europe is where they are flying spectacularly high. Since deregulation in 
1992 prices have tumbled, as passengers starting their summer holidays this weekend will appreciate. The 
cheapest ticket from Milan to Paris would have cost 16 times more in real terms 25 years ago.
Tough competition in Europe - along with higher regulatory costs - makes it harder to make money. Airline profits 
average $7.58 per passenger, less than half the US level. The market is fragmented, with more than 200 airlines 
flying. That is more than twice as many as in the US, where foreigners cannot operate domestic flights.
The economics of the US industry were transformed by mergers. The top six airlines in the US now have 90 per 
cent of the market. Might the European industry, where the top six carriers have just 43 per cent of the market, 
follow a similar path? As weak airlines get clobbered by higher fuel costs, takeovers are likely. In May Ryanair boss 
Michael O'Leary said consolidation would make Europe look more like the US, with four or five very large airlines. 
British Airways-owner IAG has been pursuing budget airline Norwegian Air Shuttle, although yesterday it stressed 
that talks had gone nowhere.
Consolidation is a long-term threat to cheap European fares. Shorterterm, higher fuel prices will push up prices. 
Much also rests on airlines' willingness to curb capacity growth. That is expanding at nearly 6 per cent but is set to 
slow this winter. Enjoy cheap journeys while they last.
Load-Date: August 3, 2018
Americans pioneered no-frills airlines but [...]
End of Document
Airline tickets: up, up and away
Airline tickets: up, up and away
Financial Times (London, England)
August 4, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 20
Length: 254 words
Body
Americans pioneered no-frills airlines but Europe is where they are flying spectacularly high. Since deregulation in 
1992 prices have tumbled, as passengers starting their summer holidays this weekend will appreciate. The 
cheapest ticket from Milan to Paris would have cost 16 times more in real terms 25 years ago.
Tough competition in Europe - along with higher regulatory costs - makes it harder to make money. Airline profits 
average $7.58 per passenger, less than half the US level. The market is fragmented, with more than 200 airlines 
flying. That is more than twice as many as in the US, where foreigners cannot operate domestic flights.
The economics of the US industry were transformed by mergers. The top six airlines in the US now have 90 per 
cent of the market. Might the European industry, where the top six carriers have just 43 per cent of the market, 
follow a similar path? As weak airlines get clobbered by higher fuel costs, takeovers are likely. In May Ryanair boss 
Michael O'Leary said consolidation would make Europe look more like the US, with four or five very large airlines. 
British Airways-owner IAG has been pursuing budget airline Norwegian Air Shuttle, although yesterday it stressed 
that talks had gone nowhere.
Consolidation is a long-term threat to cheap European fares. Shorterterm, higher fuel prices will push up prices. 
Much also rests on airlines' willingness to curb capacity growth. That is expanding at nearly 6 per cent but is set to 
slow this winter. Enjoy cheap journeys while they last.
Load-Date: August 3, 2018
Airline tickets: up, up and away
End of Document
Ryanair's summer of strikes spreads across Europe; Airlines. Industrial action ; Swedish, Dutch and Belgian 
unions join Irish and other flight crews to demand c....
Ryanair's summer of strikes spreads across Europe; Airlines. Industrial 
action ; Swedish, Dutch and Belgian unions join Irish and other flight crews 
to demand change
Financial Times (London, England)
August 4, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 14
Length: 890 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair's summer of strikes has worsened with pilots in Sweden, Belgium and the Netherlands voting for industrial 
action.
They have joined the pilots' union in Ireland, which has had four days of strikes and another planned for August 10, 
and Germany, which has not yet announced the date of its strike. Cabin crew unions in Spain, Portugal and 
Belgium went on strike for two days at the end of July.
Joost van Doesburg of the Association of Dutch Pilots (VNV) which represents 50 Ryanair pilots, said continent-
wide action would send a more powerful message.
"We believe strikes in Europe can give [Ryanair] a wake-up call that they are not on the right track with what they're 
doing now," he said. "They should start to focus on what are the needs and wishes of their own employees. They're 
not interested in this part."
Unlike in some countries, where unions have to give a week's notice of action, the Dutch union only has to give 12 
hours, meaning it will be harder for Ryanair to make alternative arrangements for passengers. The union, which is 
still talking to Ryanair about a collective labour agreement, said it would give a date if talks broke down.
Ryanair's summer of strikes spreads across Europe; Airlines. Industrial action ; Swedish, Dutch and Belgian 
unions join Irish and other flight crews to demand c....
The VNV, in common with other pilots' unions, wants employment under national, not Irish, law; sick pay; and 
changes to self-employed contractors' terms.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive, warned its Irish pilots and cabin crew that if they went on strike again, 
the airline would move 20 per cent of its Dublin-based fleet to Poland. Last week Ryanair followed through with this, 
putting more than 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew at risk of redundancy.
But yesterday the airline agreed to use a third-party moderator in its discussions with its Irish pilots, which the union 
called "an unexpected and positive development".
The Irish union's next strike is set for August 10, when the Belgian Cockpit Association has urged its members to 
join in a sympathy strike. There are 180 Ryanair pilots in Belgium, according to estimates from Bernstein.
Also striking on August 10 will be members of the Swedish Pilots' Association (SPF); Sweden has just under 50 
Ryanair pilots.
Martin Lindgren, chairman of the SPF, said: "We have not seen any tendency for Ryanair to let their pilots be 
represented by unions anywhere in Europe.
"All Ryanair proposals that came to SPF have meant restrictions on the right to organise ourselves and to be 
represented by a union, something that is totally unacceptable for a union."
Ryanair said: "We have written to each of these pilot unions today and invited them to meet us in the coming days 
to make further progress in concluding union recognition and collective labour agreements in each of these 
markets."
The airline added that it had asked for seven days' notice to "notify our customers of cancelled flights in advance 
and offer them alternative flights or refunds".
The airline announced in December that it would start to recognise unions after an autumn rostering crisis, caused 
by a shortage of pilots, forced the airline to cancel thousands of flights.
Given the tight labour market, Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC, said: "I don't think the balance of power has 
materially shifted between pilots and airlines since then."
Philip von Schöppenthau, secretarygeneral of the European Cockpit Association, which has 38,000 members, 
called Ryanair's behaviour "a sad episode of human resources hara-kiri".
Heathrow Rival runway scheme launches review A rival scheme to develop a third runway at Heathrow has 
launched a judicial review to stop the airport owner's project, already approved by Parliament, from going ahead.
Heathrow Hub wants to extend the airport's existing northern runway, whereas Heathrow Airport Limited, the 
airport's owner, plans to build a new runway, known as the north-west runway.
Heathrow Hub said the Department for Transport's process had been "flawed": "As a result, Mr Grayling has 
selected the most expensive, complex, disruptive expansion plan which, among other things, we believe will 
unnecessarily cause a substantial rise in fees for passengers and airlines."
The grounds for the review include that transport secretary Chris Grayling gave HAL a veto over Heathrow Hub's 
proposal and that there was a "factually incorrect assumption" about how many flights Heathrow Hub could 
facilitate.
HAL's £14bn scheme was recommended by the Airports Commission and voted for by MPs earlier this summer. It 
faces another judicial review, put forward by five local councils, on the grounds of air quality, climate change, noise 
pollution and transport access.
Ryanair's summer of strikes spreads across Europe; Airlines. Industrial action ; Swedish, Dutch and Belgian 
unions join Irish and other flight crews to demand c....
Earlier today, Willie Walsh, chief executive of airline group IAG, said he was not convinced HAL was well 
incentivised to manage the expansion well: "Heathrow is a quasi-monopoly that games the economic regulation 
environment to raise the charges that they can levy and has done well in the past to convince the regulator to 
reward them by spending more money.
"My objection is to the fact that they're incentivised to waste money and I'm particularly concerned that the incentive 
remains in place in the context of Heathrow." Josh Spero 12 Hours of notice the Dutch union will have to give 
before a strike 20% Proportion of Dublin fleet moving to Poland in response to strikes
'They should focus on the needs and wishes of their employees. They're not interested in this'
Graphic
 
Grounded: unions involved in the action want employment under national, not Irish, law; sick pay; and changes to 
selfemployed contractors' terms - Danny Lawson/PA
Load-Date: August 3, 2018
End of Document
Airline tickets: up, up and away Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Airline tickets: up, up and away; Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
August 4, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, Middle East Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 18
Length: 272 words
Body
Americans pioneered no-frills airlines but Europe is where they are flying spectacularly high. Since deregulation in 
1992 prices have tumbled, as passengers starting their summer holidays this weekend will appreciate. The 
cheapest ticket from Milan to Paris would have cost 16 times more in real terms 25 years ago.
Tough competition in Europe - along with higher regulatory costs - makes it harder to make money. Airline profits 
average $7.58 per passenger, less than half the US level. The market is fragmented, with more than 200 airlines 
flying. That is more than twice as many as in the US, where foreigners cannot operate domestic flights.
The economics of the US industry were transformed by mergers. The top six airlines in the US now have 90 per 
cent of the market. Might the European industry, where the top six carriers have just 43 per cent of the market, 
follow a similar path? As weak airlines get clobbered by higher fuel costs, takeovers are likely. In May Ryanair boss 
Michael O'Leary said consolidation would make Europe look more like the US, with four or five very large airlines. 
British Airways-owner IAG has been pursuing budget airline Norwegian Air Shuttle, although yesterday it stressed 
that talks had gone nowhere.
Consolidation is a long-term threat to cheap European fares. Shorterterm, higher fuel prices will push up prices. 
Much also rests on airlines' willingness to curb capacity growth. That is expanding at nearly 6 per cent but is set to 
slow this winter. Enjoy cheap journeys while they last.
$ profit per passenger Source: IATA 0 5 10 15 North America Europe Middle East Asia-Pacific Latin America
Airline tickets: up, up and away Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Load-Date: August 3, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Sets New 1-Year Low at $98.27
Ryanair (RYAAY) Sets New 1-Year Low at $98.27
DailyPolitical
August 4, 2018 Saturday 8:09 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 583 words
Body
Aug 04, 2018( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)'s share price hit a new 52-week low during mid-day trading on Thursday . The company traded 
as low as $98.27 and last traded at $101.30, with a volume of 26084 shares. The stock had previously closed at 
$99.16.A number of equities analysts recently issued reports on the company. BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from 
an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. 
Deutsche Bank lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. 
Zacks Investment Research[1] lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "sell" rating in a research note on Friday, 
April 20th. Exane BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note 
on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, BidaskClub raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note 
on Monday, June 25th. Four investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold 
rating and three have issued a buy rating to the stock. The stock presently has an average rating of "Hold" and an 
average target price of $138.00.The company has a quick ratio of 1.12, a current ratio of 1.12 and a debt-to-equity 
ratio of 0.72. The company has a market cap of $23.92 billion, a PE ratio of 14.24 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, beating analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. 
Ryanair had a return on equity of 29.19% and a net margin of 18.47%. The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion during 
the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion. sell-side analysts predict that Ryanair Holdings plc will 
post 6.72 EPS for the current year. Several large investors have recently made changes to their positions in 
RYAAY. Elkfork Partners LLC acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 4th quarter valued at $166,000. 
Private Advisor Group LLC acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 1st quarter valued at $248,000. 
Perigon Wealth Management LLC acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 1st quarter valued at 
$254,000. Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. lifted its position in shares of Ryanair by 35.5% during the 
4th quarter. Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. now owns 2,754 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $287,000 after acquiring an additional 721 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Oppenheimer 
Asset Management Inc. purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair in the first quarter valued at $346,000. 
Institutional investors own 43.76% of the company's stock. Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together 
with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental 
Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and 
Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as 
engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.Further Reading: Average Daily Trade Volume 
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Sets New 1-Year Low at $98.27
Explained[2] 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/average-daily-trade-volume-explained/ 
Load-Date: August 5, 2018
End of Document
Walsh signals end to Norwegian Air takeover move Airlines ; IAG looks to sell stake in low-cost carrier as BA 
owner's profits hit (EURO)1bn
Walsh signals end to Norwegian Air takeover move; Airlines ; IAG looks to 
sell stake in low-cost carrier as BA owner's profits hit (EURO)1bn
Financial Times (London, England)
August 4, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 14
Length: 475 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Willie Walsh, chief executive of the IAG airline group, says it is looking to sell its shares in the low-cost carrier 
Norwegian Air after failing to negotiate a takeover.
IAG, which owns British Airways, bought 4.6 per cent of Norwegian earlier this year as a prelude to discussing a 
takeover, but had two proposals rebuffed. Mr Walsh said: "We're not to keep the shares, we're not an investor. We 
bought that small stake to initiate a conversation and if that conversation is not going anywhere, as it's not, we're 
not going to hold on to those shares."
IAG would stand to make £12m on its 1.795m shares if it acquired them at the start of April at NKr168, soon before 
it announced its intention, and sold them at yesterday price of NKr233.6. The shares were worth £39m yesterday.
Norwegian has said it has received several expressions of interest from "serious players" including rival airlines 
such as the Lufthansa Group.
"We are happy to have IAG as an investor. Needless to say, they are not the only interested party that has 
approached us," said Bjorn Kjos, the carrier's colourful chief executive. Norwegian said it was not perturbed by the 
news or any effect it might have on a takeover offer. "We've never been working towards acquisition, we're working 
towards being an independent, profitable company, and that hasn't changed."
Walsh signals end to Norwegian Air takeover move Airlines ; IAG looks to sell stake in low-cost carrier as BA 
owner's profits hit (EURO)1bn
Mr Walsh's announcement came as IAG reported strong pre-tax profit growth in its first-half results, up almost a 
quarter to (EURO)1bn.
However, IAG, which also owns Iberia and Aer Lingus, missed analysts' congoing sensus for its second-quarter 
operating profit before exceptional items, coming in at (EURO)835m, up 5.7 per cent on last year. Consensus was 
(EURO)848m.
Mr Walsh blamed strikes for disrupting flights and dragging down profit. "Unfortunately, French air traffic control 
strikes continued to challenge our airlines' operations, causing disruption to our customers," he said.
"Vueling was particularly affected and incurred an additional (EURO)20m of disruption costs in the quarter."
He said disruption had cost the whole group (EURO)30m.
IAG has filed a legal complaint to the European Commission, alongside rivals easyJet and Ryanair, saying that the 
strikes breach the EU's fundamental freedom of movement.
Total revenue for the half was up 3.1 per cent to (EURO)11.2bn and basic earnings per share up more than 140 per 
cent to (EURO)0.68.
Revenue per available seat kilometre (ASK), a standard unit of comparison in aviation, fell 1.3 per cent in the first 
half while cost per ASK also fell, by 3.1 per cent.
The fall would have been greater but for increased fuel costs (up 3.8 per cent). The figures were slightly worse for 
the second quarter, when fuel was higher.
'We bought that stake to initiate a conversation and if that conversation is not going anywhere we're not going to 
hold on to those shares'
Graphic
 
Willie Walsh said strikes were to blame for disrupting flights
Load-Date: August 3, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair faces walkouts in up to five countries on Aug 10
Ryanair faces walkouts in up to five countries on Aug 10
Business World (Digest)
August 03, 2018 Friday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 394 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair's directly-employed pilots in Ireland will join colleagues in Sweden and Belgium on strike in an escalating 
day of action on Aug. 10, the fifth one-day walkout in the airline's home market.
Ryanair has suffered strikes in some of its other main markets such as Spain and Portugal as it struggles to reach 
collective labour agreements across Europe, and expects to face action in Germany and the Netherlands as well on 
Aug. 10.
The Irish airline, Europe's largest by passenger numbers, has responded by threatening to move jobs away from 
any bases affected by the stoppages, beginning with Dublin where it cut its winter fleet by 20 percent and put over 
300 employees on preliminary notice.
"The airline's escalation of the dispute last Wednesday – when it threatened to sack 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew, 
or transfer them to Poland – led to a predictable hardening of resolve among its staff," Ireland's Forsa/IALPA trade 
union said in a statement.
The union said it was willing to explore the option of a third-party facilitating talks but Ryanair said its offer to meet 
the union one-on-one on Tuesday to try and solve their differences was pointless after another strike was called.
"This fifth strike notice by FORSA is irresponsible, unwarranted and is disrupting customers and is a way of 
damaging Ryanair's business," Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer Kenny Jacobs said in a statement.
Around a quarter of Ryanair's 350 pilots based in Ireland have taken part in the series of strikes so far, with the 
fourth scheduled for Friday.
Ryanair faces walkouts in up to five countries on Aug 10
Ryanair cancelled around 20 of Friday's 300 Irish flights as a result, mainly on busy routes to and from Ireland and 
Britain, and has said impacted passengers have either been put on another flight or refunded.
It said on Thursday that it would contact another 3,500 passengers to inform them of 20 further cancellations on 
Aug. 10.
Ryanair, which operates from 86 bases in 37 countries and carried 130 million passengers last year, decided to 
recognise unions for the first time in its 32-year history last December to avert widespread strikes before Christmas.
Its shares fell further on Thursday and were down 3.6 percent at 13.02 euros by 1525 GMT, their lowest level since 
November 2016 and 8 percent below the level hit in December when Ryanair shocked the markets by recognising 
unions. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: September 3, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair urges mediation as pilots in Ireland hold fourth strike
Ryanair urges mediation as pilots in Ireland hold fourth strike
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 3, 2018 Friday 3:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 264 words
Byline: Bill Smith in London
Dateline: London (dpa) - 
Body
Budget airline Ryanair urged an Irish pilots' union to agree to mediation of a long-running dispute, as the pilots held 
their fourth 24-hour strike on Friday.
The airline said the strike had "no effect" on passengers since it had cancelled 24 of Friday's 300 Ryanair flights to 
and from Ireland more than a week ago.
It accused the Irish public sector trade union Forsa, which represents the pilots, of refusing to "engage or explain" 
its position on two outstanding issues, saying the two sides had broadly agreed on other points.
"Given the non-engagement by Forsa ... [and] that unsuccessful strikes keep repeating, Ryanair now feels the only 
way to introduce common sense is by way of third-party mediation," said Eddie Wilson, the airline's chief personnel 
officer.
Wilson proposed Kieran Mulvey, a former government labour official, for the role of mediator.
Forsa, which has announced a fifth strike for August 10, said Ryanair's mediation offer was an "unexpected and 
positive development."
It said the union would "consult with its members in the company, and looks forward to talking to Kieran Mulvey 
about when a process could begin."
The pilots are unhappy about Ryanair's plans to change seniority rules and its procedures for annual leave, 
transfers and promotions.
The union accused Ryanair of attempted "union busting" last month after it warned that it could cut 100 pilots and 
200 cabin crew from its staff in Ireland as it reduces its Dublin-based fleet from 30 to 24 aircraft over the winter.
Ryanair urges mediation as pilots in Ireland hold fourth strike
Editorial contactsEditing by: Rachel More, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: August 4, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair urges mediation as pilots in Ireland hold fourth strike
Ryanair urges mediation as pilots in Ireland hold fourth strike
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 3, 2018 Friday 3:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 261 words
Body
       LONDON (dpa-AFX) - Budget airline Ryanair urged an Irish pilots' union to agree to mediation of a long-
running dispute, as the pilots held their fourth 24-hour strike on Friday.  The airline said the strike had 'no effect' on 
passengers since it had cancelled 24 of Friday's 300 Ryanair flights to and from Ireland more than a week ago. 
 It accused the Irish public sector trade union Forsa, which represents the pilots, of refusing to 'engage or explain' 
its position on two outstanding issues, saying the two sides had broadly agreed on other points.  'Given the non-
engagement by Forsa ... [and] that unsuccessful strikes keep repeating, Ryanair now feels the only way to 
introduce common sense is by way of third-party mediation,' said Eddie Wilson, the airline's chief personnel officer.  
Wilson proposed Kieran Mulvey, a former government labour official, for the role of mediator.  Forsa, which has 
announced a fifth strike for August 10, said Ryanair's mediation offer was an 'unexpected and positive 
development.'  It said the union would 'consult with its members in the company, and looks forward to talking to 
Kieran Mulvey about when a process could begin.'  The pilots are unhappy about Ryanair's plans to change 
seniority rules and its procedures for annual leave, transfers and promotions.  The union accused Ryanair of 
attempted 'union busting' last month after it warned that it could cut 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew from its staff in 
Ireland as it reduces its Dublin-based fleet from 30 to 24 aircraft over the winter.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: August 3, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Given Average Recommendation of "Hold" by Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Given Average Recommendation of "Hold" by 
Analysts
American Banking and Market News
August 3, 2018 Friday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 633 words
Body
Ryanair logo Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has earned a consensus recommendation of "Hold" from the 
twelve ratings firms that are presently  covering the stock,            MarketBeat.com  reports. Four research analysts 
have rated the stock with a sell recommendation, five have given a hold recommendation and three have assigned  
a buy recommendation to  the company. 
RYAAY has been the topic of several research analyst reports. ValuEngine  cut Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a 
"sell" rating in a research report on Tuesday, July 24th. BidaskClub cut Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" 
rating in a research report on Monday, May 14th. Deutsche Bank cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in 
a research report on Thursday, June 7th. Exane BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" 
rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally,            Zacks Investment Research  cut Ryanair from a 
"buy" rating to a "sell" rating in a research report on Friday, April 20th. 
Several hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently modified their holdings of the stock. 
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA increased its stake in  Ryanair by 14.5% during the second quarter. 
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,539,197 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $290,053,000 after acquiring an additional 321,859 shares during the period.  First Mercantile Trust Co. 
increased its stake in  Ryanair by 28.8% during the second quarter. First Mercantile Trust Co. now owns 6,135 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $701,000 after acquiring an additional 1,370 shares during 
the period.  Baillie Gifford & Co. grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 2.3% in the 2nd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. 
now owns 5,936,962 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $678,179,000 after purchasing an 
additional 133,294 shares during the period.  Bank of Montreal Can grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 9.1% in 
the 2nd quarter. Bank of Montreal Can now owns 421,083 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$48,101,000 after purchasing an additional 35,003 shares during the period.  Finally, Mount Yale Investment 
Advisors LLC bought a new stake in shares of  Ryanair in the 1st quarter valued at approximately $1,410,000. 
Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.76% of the company's stock.  
Shares of Ryanair opened at $100.47 on Friday, MarketBeat.com  reports. Ryanair has a 1 year low of $98.27 and 
a 1 year high of $127.61. The firm has a market cap of $24.69 billion, a PE ratio of 14.25 and a beta of 0.64. The 
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.72, a quick ratio of 1.12 and a current ratio of 1.12.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, beating the consensus estimate of $0.25 by 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Given Average Recommendation of "Hold" by Analysts
$0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 29.19% and a net margin of 18.47%. The company had revenue of $1.62 
billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion.  research analysts expect that  Ryanair 
will post 6.72 earnings per share for the current year.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Dividend Stocks -  Are They Right For You?  
Analyst Recommendations for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: August 3, 2018
End of Document
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 3, 2018 Friday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 829 words
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the weekly planner please call or email the dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-
Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 8064 Email: 
international@dpa.com
MONDAY, AUGUST 6
WASHINGTON/TEHRAN: US sanctions against Iran set to come back into effect after Trump administration pulled 
out of nuclear deal
PARIS: Decision expected in French far-right leader Marine Le Pen's appeal against veto of 2-million-euro state 
subsidy payment
LONDON: A former Uruguayan diplomat goes on trial at London's Old Bailey court for allegedly murdering his 
neighbour
BERLIN: Deadline set by German pilots in dispute over pay conditions at Ryanair ends
HIROSHIMA, JAPAN: Japan observes the anniversary of the 1945 US atomic bombing on Hiroshima
NUSA DUA, INDONESIA: Delegates from 45 countries and the UN Refugee Agency meet for the Bali Process to 
tackle people smuggling
BERLIN: The European Athletics Championships take place in the German capital
TOKYO: Japanese telecoms giant SoftBank releases financial results for the April-to-June quarter
_____________________________________________
TUESDAY, AUGUST 7
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
BOGOTA: Colombia's new president Ivan Duque is sworn in, ushering in an era of uncertainty for the country's 
peace deal with FARC rebels
FREIBURG, GERMANY: A court is expected to sentence a mother and her partner who offered up her child on the 
darknet for sex in Germany
TOKYO: UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres visits Japan (until August 9)
LOS ANGELES: Walt Disney reports its third-quarter results
LUXEMBOURG: A top EU court advisor weighs in on the impact of Brexit on EU arrest warrants
WIESBADEN, GERMANY: Germany reports trade figures for June
LUXEMBOURG: A top EU court rules on a copyright challenge over a photo reproduced in a Spanish school 
newspaper
_____________________________________________
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 8
NEW YORK: New York City Council is due to vote on capping Uber and other taxi apps
YANGON: 30 years since the beginning of the student-led uprising that propelled Aung San Suu Kyi to leader of 
Myanmar's democracy movement
* KUALA LUMPUR: Lawyers and judge discuss upcoming trial of Malaysia's former prime minister Najib Razak, 
suspected of misappropriating state funds
KINSHASA: Deadline for candidates in Congo's presidential election to register
BEIJING: China reports trade figures for July
AMIENS, FRANCE: Britain's Prince William attends a ceremony to mark the 100th anniversary of the Battle of 
Amiens
NEW YORK: 21st Century Fox reports fourth-quarter results
_____________________________________________
THURSDAY, AUGUST 9
NAGASAKI, JAPAN: Japan marks the anniversary of the 1945 US atomic bombing on Nagasaki, with UN Secretary 
General Antonio Guterres attending the ceremony
BUENOS AIRES: The International Tango Festival kicks off in Argentina (until August 22)
SINGAPORE: Singapore celebrates its 53rd birthday with a public holiday after gaining independence from 
Malaysia in 1965
TOKYO: Japan reports machinery orders for June
BEIJING: China's National Bureau of Statistics reports inflation rate projection for August
GUCA, SERBIA: Guca's annual trumpet festival is expected to attract tens of thousands with music, brandy and 
barbecue (until August 12)
_____________________________________________
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
LONDON: Plea hearing for Muslim convert accused of planning a van attack on London's Oxford Street attack 
plans.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND: Start of Premier League 2018/19 season with Manchester United v Leicester City
JAKARTA: Deadline for the registration of presidential candidates for Indonesia's 2019 election
TOKYO: Japan to release GDP data for April-June quarter
PETERBOROUGH, ENGLAND: British astronaut Tim Peake visits the English city's cathedral as part of a 
nationwide tour with the descent module that brought him back to Earth
_____________________________________________
SATURDAY, AUGUST 11
CAPE CANAVERAL, FLORIDA: Targeted launch of NASA's Parker Solar Probe, which is set to get closer to the 
sun than ever before
ZURICH: The Zurich Street Parade transforms the Swiss city into one of the world's largest techno partys
_____________________________________________
SUNDAY, AUGUST 12
BELMOPAN: Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen travels to Belize and Paraguay, with US stopovers expected to 
unnerve Beijing (until August 20)
* BAMAKO: A run-off vote is set to take place in Mali's presidential race between incumbent Ibrahim Boubacar 
Keita and Soumaila Cisse
MOSCOW: Moscow's Gorky Park - popular with locals and tourists alike - celebrates its 90th anniversary
BANGKOK: Thailand's Queen Sirikit turns 86, but is not expected to appear in public due to her deteriorating health
AQTAU, KAZAKHSTAN: Leaders from Russia, Azerbaijan, Iran, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan convene for a 
summit in Aqtau
BERLIN: German far-right leader Alexander Gauland gives his summer interview with public broadcaster ZDF
LONDON: The "Glorious 12th" marks the start of Britain's controversial grouse shooting season
Load-Date: August 4, 2018
End of Document
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
August 3, 2018 Friday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 782 words
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the weekly planner please call or email the dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-
Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 8064 Email: 
international@dpa.com
MONDAY, AUGUST 6
WASHINGTON/TEHRAN: US sanctions against Iran set to come back into effect after Trump administration pulled 
out of nuclear deal
PARIS: Decision expected in French far-right leader Marine Le Pen's appeal against veto of 2-million-euro state 
subsidy payment
LONDON: A former Uruguayan diplomat goes on trial at London's Old Bailey court for allegedly murdering his 
neighbour
BERLIN: Deadline set by German pilots in dispute over pay conditions at Ryanair ends
HIROSHIMA, JAPAN: Japan observes the anniversary of the 1945 US atomic bombing on Hiroshima
NUSA DUA, INDONESIA: Delegates from 45 countries and the UN Refugee Agency meet for the Bali Process to 
tackle people smuggling
BERLIN: The European Athletics Championships take place in the German capital
TOKYO: Japanese telecoms giant SoftBank releases financial results for the April-to-June quarter
_____________________________________________
TUESDAY, AUGUST 7
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
BOGOTA: Colombia's new president Ivan Duque is sworn in, ushering in an era of uncertainty for the country's 
peace deal with FARC rebels
FREIBURG, GERMANY: A court is expected to sentence a mother and her partner who offered up her child on the 
darknet for sex in Germany
TOKYO: UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres visits Japan (until August 9)
LOS ANGELES: Walt Disney reports its third-quarter results
LUXEMBOURG: A top EU court advisor weighs in on the impact of Brexit on EU arrest warrants
WIESBADEN, GERMANY: Germany reports trade figures for June
LUXEMBOURG: A top EU court rules on a copyright challenge over a photo reproduced in a Spanish school 
newspaper
_____________________________________________
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 8
NEW YORK: New York City Council is due to vote on capping Uber and other taxi apps
YANGON: 30 years since the beginning of the student-led uprising that propelled Aung San Suu Kyi to leader of 
Myanmar's democracy movement
KINSHASA: Deadline for candidates in Congo's presidential election to register
BEIJING: China reports trade figures for July
AMIENS, FRANCE: Britain's Prince William attends a ceremony to mark the 100th anniversary of the Battle of 
Amiens
NEW YORK: 21st Century Fox reports fourth-quarter results
_____________________________________________
THURSDAY, AUGUST 9
NAGASAKI, JAPAN: Japan marks the anniversary of the 1945 US atomic bombing on Nagasaki, with UN Secretary 
General Antonio Guterres attending the ceremony
BUENOS AIRES: The International Tango Festival kicks off in Argentina (until August 22)
SINGAPORE: Singapore celebrates its 53rd birthday with a public holiday after gaining independence from 
Malaysia in 1965
TOKYO: Japan reports machinery orders for June
BEIJING: China's National Bureau of Statistics reports inflation rate projection for August
GUCA, SERBIA: Guca's annual trumpet festival is expected to attract tens of thousands with music, brandy and 
barbecue (until August 12)
_____________________________________________
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for AUGUST 6-12, 2018
LONDON: Plea hearing for Muslim convert accused of planning a van attack on London's Oxford Street attack 
plans.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND: Start of Premier League 2018/19 season with Manchester United v Leicester City
JAKARTA: Deadline for the registration of presidential candidates for Indonesia's 2019 election
TOKYO: Japan to release GDP data for April-June quarter
PETERBOROUGH, ENGLAND: British astronaut Tim Peake visits the English city's cathedral as part of a 
nationwide tour with the descent module that brought him back to Earth
_____________________________________________
SATURDAY, AUGUST 11
CAPE CANAVERAL, FLORIDA: Targeted launch of NASA's Parker Solar Probe, which is set to get closer to the 
sun than ever before
ZURICH: The Zurich Street Parade transforms the Swiss city into one of the world's largest techno partys
_____________________________________________
SUNDAY, AUGUST 12
BELMOPAN: Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen travels to Belize and Paraguay, with US stopovers expected to 
unnerve Beijing (until August 20)
MOSCOW: Moscow's Gorky Park - popular with locals and tourists alike - celebrates its 90th anniversary
BANGKOK: Thailand's Queen Sirikit turns 86, but is not expected to appear in public due to her deteriorating health
AQTAU, KAZAKHSTAN: Leaders from Russia, Azerbaijan, Iran, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan convene for a 
summit in Aqtau
BERLIN: German far-right leader Alexander Gauland gives his summer interview with public broadcaster ZDF
LONDON: The "Glorious 12th" marks the start of Britain's controversial grouse shooting season
Load-Date: August 3, 2018
End of Document
Street Color: Ryanair Reportedly Cancels 146 Flights for Aug. 10 on Pilot Strike Plans From Ireland , Belgium , 
Sweden
Street Color: Ryanair Reportedly Cancels 146 Flights for Aug. 10 on Pilot 
Strike Plans From Ireland, Belgium, Sweden
MT Newswires Live Briefs
August 3, 2018 Friday 11:08 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 46 words
Body
 (Street Color news is derived from real time chats with market professionals subscribed to the Ask Alyce Premium 
Chat service on Bloomberg and ICE IM. This information is believed to be from reliable sources but may include 
rumor and speculation. Accuracy is not guaranteed.)
Load-Date: August 4, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Given Average Recommendation of 'Hold' by Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Given Average Recommendation of 'Hold' by 
Analysts
Transcript Daily
August 3, 2018 Friday 8:10 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 691 words
Body
Aug 03, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) has earned a consensus recommendation of "Hold" from the twelve ratings firms that are 
presently covering the stock, MarketBeat.com[1] reports. Four research analysts have rated the stock with a sell 
recommendation, five have given a hold recommendation and three have assigned a buy recommendation to the 
company.RYAAY has been the topic of several research analyst reports. ValuEngine[2] cut Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "sell" rating in a research report on Tuesday, July 24th. 
BidaskClub cut Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Monday, May 14th. 
Deutsche Bank cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. Exane 
BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 
7th. Finally, Zacks Investment Research[3] cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "sell" rating in a research report on 
Friday, April 20th.Several hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently modified their holdings of the 
stock. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA increased its stake in Ryanair by 14.5% during the second 
quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,539,197 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $290,053,000 after acquiring an additional 321,859 shares during the period. First Mercantile Trust 
Co. increased its stake in Ryanair by 28.8% during the second quarter. First Mercantile Trust Co. now owns 6,135 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $701,000 after acquiring an additional 1,370 shares during 
the period. Baillie Gifford .... grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 2.3% in the 2nd quarter. Baillie Gifford .... now 
owns 5,936,962 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $678,179,000 after purchasing an 
additional 133,294 shares during the period. Bank of Montreal Can grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 9.1% in 
the 2nd quarter. Bank of Montreal Can now owns 421,083 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$48,101,000 after purchasing an additional 35,003 shares during the period. Finally, Mount Yale Investment 
Advisors LLC bought a new stake in shares of Ryanair in the 1st quarter valued at approximately $1,410,000. 
Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.76% of the company's stock. Shares of Ryanair opened at $100.47 
on Friday, MarketBeat.com[4] reports. Ryanair has a 1 year low of $98.27 and a 1 year high of $127.61. The firm 
has a market cap of $24.69 billion, a PE ratio of 14.25 and a beta of 0.64. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 
0.72, a quick ratio of 1.12 and a current ratio of 1.12. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings 
results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, 
beating the consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 29.19% and a net margin of 
18.47%. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 
billion. research analysts expect that Ryanair will post 6.72 earnings per share for the current year. About 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Given Average Recommendation of 'Hold' by Analysts
RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such 
as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel 
insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and 
merchandise.Featured Story: Dividend Stocks - Are They Right For You? [5] [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 2]:       
     http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY [ 3]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 4]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 5]:       
     https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/investing-dividend-stocks/ 
Load-Date: August 3, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Bought by Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Massachusetts Financial 
Services Co. MA
Watchlist News
August 2, 2018 Thursday 6:08 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 713 words
Body
Aug 02, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Massachusetts Financial 
Services Co. MA boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 14.5% during the second 
quarter, according to the company in its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities ...change Commission. The 
fund owned 2,539,197 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 321,859 shares 
during the quarter. 
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA owned 1.08% of Ryanair worth $290,053,000 as of its most recent filing 
with the Securities ...change Commission. A number of other institutional investors and hedge funds have also 
recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. Elkfork Partners LLC bought a new position in Ryanair in the 
fourth quarter valued at $166,000. Private Advisor Group LLC bought a new position in Ryanair in the first quarter 
valued at $248,000. Perigon Wealth Management LLC bought a new position in Ryanair in the first quarter valued 
at $254,000. Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. increased its stake in Ryanair by 35.5% in the fourth 
quarter. Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. now owns 2,754 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $287,000 after acquiring an additional 721 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Oppenheimer Asset 
Management Inc. bought a new position in Ryanair in the first quarter valued at $346,000. 43.76% of the stock is 
currently owned by institutional investors and hedge funds. A number of research analysts have recently issued 
reports on RYAAY shares. ValuEngine[1] cut Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "sell" rating in a research note on 
Tuesday, July 24th. BidaskClub raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Monday, 
June 25th. Exane BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on 
Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on 
Thursday, June 7th. Finally, Deutsche Bank cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on 
Thursday, June 7th. Four investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold rating 
and three have assigned a buy rating to the company. The company presently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and 
a consensus target price of $138.00.Shares of RYAAY[2] opened at $102.12 on Thursday. The company has a 
quick ratio of 1.12, a current ratio of 1.12 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low 
of $101.10 and a one year high of $127.61. The stock has a market capitalization of $24.69 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of 15.55 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings data on 
Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping the Thomson Reuters' 
consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a net margin of 18.47% and a return on equity of 29.19%. The 
business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion. sell-side 
analysts predict that Ryanair Holdings plc will post 6.72 EPS for the current fiscal year. About RyanairRyanair 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Bought by Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA
Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.Further Reading: 
Should I invest in "strong buy" stocks? [3]Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
[ 1]: http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY [ 2]:            
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/stock-ratings-recommendations-analysts-upgrades-downgrades/ 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
Load-Date: August 2, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair July Traffic Rises, Load Factor Flat; Stock Dips
Ryanair July Traffic Rises, Load Factor Flat; Stock Dips
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 2, 2018 Thursday 11:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 222 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported Thursday that its traffic for the 
month of July grew 4% to 13.1 million customers from last year's 12.6 million customers.  The company said its load 
factor remained strong at 97 percent, on the back of lower fares.  ATC staff shortages, adverse weather and 
unnecessary pilot and cabin crew strikes caused over 1,000 flight cancellations in July compared to just 23 
cancellations in July 17.  Rolling annual traffic to July grew 7% to 133.5m customers  Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said, 
'Regrettably almost 200,000 Ryanair customers had their flights cancelled in July because of repeated ATC staff 
shortages in the UK, Germany and France, adverse weather, and unnecessary pilot and cabin crew strikes. 
Ryanair, together with other European airlines, calls for urgent action by the EU Commission and European 
governments to address the effect of these ATC staff shortages which are disrupting the travel plans of millions of 
Europe's consumers this summer.'  On July 30, Ryanair invited FORSA and its Pilot Committee to meet to discuss 
FORSA's requirements, after next Fridays 4th strike by just 25% of Irish pilots, which has disrupted another 3,500 
Irish customers flights.   In London, Ryanair shares were trading at 13.14 euros, down 2.45 percent.      
Load-Date: August 2, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Sold by Bessemer Group Inc.
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Bessemer Group Inc.
American Banking and Market News
August 2, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 732 words
Body
Ryanair logo Bessemer Group Inc. reduced its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
51.3% during the 2nd quarter, according to its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC). The institutional investor  owned 9,265 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 9,762 
shares during the quarter. Bessemer Group Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $1,058,000 at the end of the most 
recent quarter.  
A number of other large investors also recently made changes to their positions in the stock. Comerica Bank 
increased its stake in  Ryanair by 3.4% in the first quarter. Comerica Bank now owns 15,202 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $1,756,000 after purchasing an additional 494 shares during the period.  
Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 35.5% during the fourth quarter. 
Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. now owns 2,754 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$287,000 after buying an additional 721 shares in the last quarter.  W.G. Shaheen & Associates DBA Whitney & Co 
boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 2.5% during the first quarter. W.G. Shaheen & Associates DBA Whitney & Co 
now owns 30,884 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $3,794,000 after buying an additional 744 
shares in the last quarter.  Lester Murray Antman dba SimplyRich boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 10.7% during 
the first quarter. Lester Murray Antman dba SimplyRich now owns 8,601 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $1,057,000 after buying an additional 832 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, Brinker Capital Inc. 
boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 4.1% during the first quarter. Brinker Capital Inc. now owns 22,585 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $2,775,000 after buying an additional 894 shares in the last quarter. Hedge 
funds and other institutional investors own  43.76% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair opened at $102.12 on Thursday, MarketBeat  reports. The company has a quick ratio of 1.12, a current 
ratio of 1.12 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.72. The company has a market capitalization of $24.95 billion, a PE ratio 
of 14.49 and a beta of 0.67. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $101.10 and a 1-year high of $127.61.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, beating analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by 
$0.05. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion. 
Ryanair had a net margin of 18.47% and a return on equity of 29.19%.  research analysts anticipate that  Ryanair 
Holdings plc will post 6.72 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of research analyst reports. Zacks Investment Research  raised shares of 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $138.00 price objective on the stock in a report on 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Sold by Bessemer Group Inc.
Wednesday, April 11th. Deutsche Bank downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a 
report on Thursday, June 7th.            ValuEngine  downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" 
rating in a report on Wednesday, May 9th. BidaskClub raised shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "strong-
buy" rating in a report on Friday, May 25th. Finally, Exane BNP Paribas downgraded shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Four research analysts have rated the 
stock with a sell rating, five have assigned  a hold rating and three have assigned  a buy rating to the company's 
stock. The company presently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and a consensus price target of $138.00. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Price to Earnings Ratio (PE) Basics  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: August 2, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to slash Glasgow flights
Ryanair to slash Glasgow flights
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
August 2, 2018 Thursday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 524 words
Highlight: On 27 February, Ryanair announced that it will cut 20 of its 23 flights from Glasgow Airport in November 
2018.
Body
This will jeopardise around 300 jobs and 500,000 passengers will be affected, according to airline representatives, 
whereas Glasgow Airport estimates around 100 jobs to be lost.Only three routes (Glasgow to Wroclaw, Krakow and 
Dublin) will be saved, whereas 11 routes will be added from Edinburgh Airport, because of the capital's more stable 
inbound and outbound passenger flow.Five routesto Sofia, Berlin, Riga, Derry and Lisbonwill be changed from 
Glasgow to Edinburgh in November.&lt;h2&gt;The impact of Brexit and air passenger duty&lt;/h2&gt;Glasgow 
Airport said through a spokesman that it was "bitterly disappointed at this decision by Ryanair". Furthermore, Derek 
Mackay, the Scottish Finance Secretary, said that all the uncertainties around Brexit are having a "negative impact" 
on Scotland's development, and that the news about Ryanair is "very disappointing".The Irish low-cost carrier 
blamed Air Passenger Duty (APD) and uncertainty caused by Brexit to be the reason for this drastic decision. 
Ryanair's Chief Commercial Officer, David O'Brien, said: "We think Brexit is particularly threatening to Scotland and 
its economy, and particularly to the aviation industry."The weaker Scottish economy is even weaker in Glasgow and 
we simply can't bear the air passenger duty of Â£13. Â£13 is more than a third of Ryanair's average fare."He also 
mentioned that the airline has been putting pressure on the Scottish Government to abolish the air passenger duty, 
but with no success.The Scottish Government planned to replace the APD with a cheaper air departure tax in 
2017by reducing the APD by 50% but this is yet to be implemented, due to unresolved issues and because it also 
needs to be approved by the EU.&lt;h2&gt;Cancelled flights and disruption&lt;/h2&gt;The recent trend of bad press 
seems to be continuing for the low-cost airline. 
In mid-September the company cancelled thousands of flights, blaming pilot shortages, confusion regarding pilots' 
holidays, bad weather and air control strikes. This has caused disruption and infuriated customers.Then, at the end 
of September, the airline announced that from November 2017 it would cancel all flights from Scotland to London, 
affecting around 700,000 passengers. Thus, the new cut which comes just a day after Ryanair pilots demanded the 
airline's Chief Executive Officer, Michael O'Leary, to quit will probably add further frustration, damaging the airline's 
image even more.Negative effects have already started to be noticed. All these flight cuts have caused the Irish 
Ryanair to slash Glasgow flights
carrier to lose its title as the biggest Europe airline, slipping behind Lufthansa AG.However, despite all these 
problems, Ryanair is expecting profits of Â£1.25bn at the end of the fiscal year 2018, proving that the low-cost 
carrier is still strong. It just remains to be seen for how long, as this cannot be maintained without a change in the 
customer service strategy and in how the airline manages its pilots' unions and deals with its staff. Continuous poor 
management does not benefit anyone, and it hurts communities, as in Glasgow's case, where its economy will be 
affected and jobs will be lost.
Load-Date: August 20, 2018
End of Document
Boozy airports: the UK's crackdown on drunken passengers
Boozy airports: the UK's crackdown on drunken passengers
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
August 2, 2018 Thursday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 1320 words
Highlight: Drunk and disorderly passengers have long been a bugbear for UK airports.
Body
Last year, a BBC Panorama investigation found that arrests of passengers suspected of being drunk at UK airports 
and on flights rose by 50% in the period from February 2016 to February 2017.Now, the UK's Home Office has 
claimed that lax regulation of alcohol sales at airports is a key contributor to disruptive behaviour. The government 
is calling for evidence to assess the impact of extending its Licensing Act which regulates alcohol sales in bars and 
retailers across the country to drinking establishments at airports.Under the current rules, airport bars and pubs can 
operate outside current licensing laws, meaning that alcohol can effectively be sold round the clock. According to a 
House of Lords Select Committee report published in April last year, poor practices are allowed to reign after 
passengers pass through customs, as certain offences (e.g. selling drinks to underage drinkers) do not pertain to 
airside premises under the Licensing Act."Most UK air passengers behave responsibly when flying, but any 
disruptive or drunk behaviour is entirely unacceptable," says a spokesperson from the UK Home Office. "The Home 
Office will issue a call for evidence to assess the impact an extension of the Licensing Act to airside premises could 
have on reducing alcohol related disorder at UK airports."The move has reignited a debate about how to deal with 
drunken passengers, who can cause safety and security problems on-board aircraft.&lt;h2&gt;The response of 
airlines&lt;/h2&gt;Airlines that bear the brunt of inebriated passengers on-board have welcomed the potential 
extension of the Licensing Act. 
Low-cost flyer Jet2 dealt with 536 disruptive incidents during the summer of 2016, with more than half reportedly 
fuelled by alcohol."We are encouraged that the Home Office has committed to issuing a call for evidence on this, 
and we look forward to working with them and the rest of industry to find a solution to this growing problem," said 
Jet2 managing director Phil Ward in a statement.&lt;div class="rightpullquote"&gt;"Airlines have been taking positive 
steps by increasingly limiting alcohol sales to inebriated passengers."&lt;/div&gt;Irish airline Ryanair has also 
welcomed the news. Following the Panorama investigation, the company called for significant changes to prohibit 
the sale of alcohol at airports, including the implementation of a two-drink limit per passenger and the prevention of 
alcohol sales before 10am."It's incumbent on the airports to introduce these preventative measures to curb 
excessive drinking and the problems it creates, rather than allowing passengers to drink to excess before their 
Boozy airports: the UK's crackdown on drunken passengers
flights," said a Ryanair spokesperson in January, after a violent passenger forced a Dublin-bound flight to make an 
unscheduled stop in Spain.However, this outlook has been rejected by one of the UK's top pub chains. Last year, 
head of JD Wetherspoon Tim Martin claimed that the company's pubs sold less alcohol in airports compared to the 
high street, indicating that passengers do modify their behaviour before flying. The decision to limit drinking at all 
airports, he argued, would therefore be unjustified."I am surprised that pubs are felt to be the source of the 
problem," Martin told VICE, in response to the Home Office's proposed extension to its Licensing Act. "I would 
favour a more targeted approach aimed at certain bars or certain airports, if problems arise, rather than draconian 
action across the board."&lt;h2&gt;Controlling alcohol consumption&lt;/h2&gt;UK airports have already taken steps 
to try and curb irresponsible drinking. The Airport Operators Association (AOA) and a number of other organisations 
banded together in 2016 to create the UK Aviation Industry Code of Practice on Disruptive Passengers. More than 
20 airports have signed up as voluntary notaries to the code, which contains a number of suggested activities for 
dealing with excessive drinking.Karen Dee, chief executive of the AOA, says that these airports now host regular 
forums and working group meetings to reduce disruptive incidents. For example, some airports have introduced 
intelligence-led and high-visibility patrols at drop-off areas or boarding gates for problematic flights."Staff in bars 
and restaurants are trained to act preventively and tackle behaviour before it becomes an incident," says Dee. "At 
the same time, the handling agent at the gate will be aware that that particular passenger may need to be asked a 
few 
additional 
questions 
to 
check 
their 
suitability 
to 
fly 
before 
allowing 
them 
to 
board."&lt;div 
class="rightpullquote"&gt;"Ryanair called for 
significant 
changes 
to prohibit the sale of alcohol at 
airports."&lt;/div&gt;Dee claims that initial data from the Civil Aviation Authority shows the number of disruptive 
incidents has stayed the same in 2017, despite provisional data for the year showing an increase in passenger 
numbers of over 6%. She argues, therefore, that enforcing the voluntary code at airports is working and will 
ultimately be more effective than new government legislation."In fact, we already have different licensing regimes 
operating in Scotland and Northern Ireland, but that does not seem to have a significant effect on the number of 
incidents, that is why we think the code which focuses action at all points of the passenger journey is the best way 
forward."Dee also notes that airlines have been taking positive steps by increasingly limiting alcohol sales to 
inebriated passengers. Nevertheless, the onus is on the airlines to ensure passengers are aware of the potential 
consequences of their actions."It's important that airlines communicate clearly to their passengers about their duty 
to consume alcohol responsibly and the consequences if they don't, ranging from fines to prison sentences though 
often we find that the risk of losing a holiday by being denied boarding is the most effective one!" says 
Dee.&lt;h2&gt;An international problem&lt;/h2&gt;Although the UK Home Office's tougher stance has shone on a 
spotlight on the UK's alcohol issues, the problem is not an isolated one. For example, the Nordic Alcohol and Drug 
Policy Network (NordAN) argues that although Nordic countries have some of the toughest regulations on alcohol in 
the world, these often don't apply to airports or airlines operating in those regions.In 2012, NordAN called for 
airlines to end giving out free alcohol on board and to rethink their policies. Most airlines do not allow intoxicated 
passengers to board aircraft, but pressure to be service-minded can mean that airlines ignore policies, a problem 
that can also be attested to businesses operating in airports.NordAN general secretary Lauri Beekmann says that 
incidents caused by overconsumption of alcohol should not be attributed to either airports or airlines specifically. 
Rather, the responsibility lies with both to cooperate, and for more to be done by governmental bodies to highlight 
the issue."Both sides should come together and understand that although they are businesses they are still serving 
people and they should put passengers before any economic interests," says Beekmann. "As a civil society 
organisation which is focusing on alcohol policy from the health point of view, we do think restrictive [alcohol] 
policies should be ensured by the airports and the airlines."NordAN is currently hoping to start a project advocating 
for the European Commission to do more to tackle issues caused by alcohol, as well as communicate with airlines 
and airports through events, seminars and conferences. Beekmann claims that the UK's extension to its Licensing 
Act could set an example for other nations to follow."The initiative has to start from somewhere and I think that the 
UK's airports have a positive position to show leadership and to show responsibility, and also show other regions in 
Europe that it's not only about business it's about safety and responsibility."
Load-Date: August 20, 2018
End of Document
The untapped potential of unserved aviation routes
The untapped potential of unserved aviation routes
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
August 2, 2018 Thursday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 1095 words
Highlight: The world may indeed be getting smaller, but flights between its innumerable cities and hubs aren't 
always direct.Take London's Heathrow Airport for example.
Body
As the UK's busiest hub, it is used by 80 airlines, jetting to 180 destinations (not all non-stop) across 90 countries. 
This is clearly no negligible number, but there is always room for new routes to enter the mix.One of the more 
noteworthy names added to Heathrow's departures board is Tehran, which British Airways (BA) re-added to its 
itinerary last year, following the lifting of nuclear sanctions imposed on Iran at the start of 2016.Other destinations, 
however, have fallen by the wayside. It's hard to imagine today, but both Caracas and Kathmandu were once 
serviced by non-stop flights from the west London hub.Naturally, some routes just aren't viable for carriers and 
airports from a demand perspective.Unless there is a drastic U-turn in international relations, the likes of BA and 
KLM aren't going to be taking off for Pyongyang anytime soon. Such a move would be economic suicide.But airlines 
are starting to look into new and diverse routes that make sense for their profit margins.In October 2017, Aer Lingus 
began a thrice-weekly service between Dublin and Miami, which has been welcomed by Irish tourist bodies looking 
to capitalise on an uptick in visitors from North America to the Emerald Isle in recent years.The potential of such 
routes also became a hot topic at the 2017 Global Sustainable Aviation Summit in October, hosted by industry body 
ATAG in Geneva, where the 'race for new routes' was discussed at length as one of the great opportunities in 
aviation.&lt;h2&gt;The "Unserved Route of the Week" story&lt;/h2&gt;While a bold move on Aer Lingus' part, the 
Irish carrier can't take all the credit for the new route.Dublin to Miami was first identified as a potential profit-spinner 
in February 2016, as part of a destination-pairing initiative between airfare comparison website Skyscanner and 
route analysis group Anna.aero.Launched as a weekly feature back in 2015, the "Unserved Route of the Week" 
draws from Skyscanner's data and analytics tool, Travel Insight, to identify demand for routes currently unserved by 
the industry from the site's 60 million-plus visits each month.As of the end of October, 15 routes have been picked 
up out of the 67 pairings suggested by the feature a success rate of roughly 22%.In addition to Aer Lingus' Dublin-
Miami service, successes include: Glasgow to Brussels with Ryanair; Seoul Incheon to Barcelona with Korean Air; 
Vancouver to Boston with AirCanada; and Nadi to Adelaide, now served by Fiji Airways.&lt;div 
class="rightpullquote"&gt;"Dublin to Miami was first identified as a potential profit-spinner in February 
2016."&lt;/div&gt;Adoptees of the routes cover the gamut of airlines, from flag carriers to ultra-low cost carriers 
The untapped potential of unserved aviation routes
(ULCCs). While Ryanair is the only carrier to have picked up more than one new route, legacy carriers account for 
ten of the 15 city pairs."Our Travel Insight data is helping to shape airlines' strategy by shedding light on gaps in the 
market and giving carriers invaluable insight into what consumers really want," explains Hugh Aitken, Skyscanner's 
senior director of strategic partnerships."This access to crucial information on market demand reveals substantial 
and viable commercial opportunities for airlines, the importance of which is illustrated in the significant uptake of 
featured unserved routes over the last couple of years."As the results show, our insights benefit airlines across all 
regions and serving all demographics, and we believe there is so much more untapped potential out there on which 
carriers can capitalise."&lt;h2&gt;Opportunities aplenty for both flag carriers and ULCCs&lt;/h2&gt;Traditionally, no-
frills carriers have led the way in forging new routes. 
In many ways, this still appears to be the case, as exemplified by the recent launch of Norwegian's Gatwick-
Singapore service. Billed as the world's longest low-cost flight, fares currently stand at Â£150 one-way for the 13-
hour journey.But, as indicated by Skyscanner's findings, big flag carriers are now starting to up their game when it 
comes to conceiving of more imaginative routes."Low cost airlines have always been the most dynamic at starting 
new and unserved routes, but we now see the same entrepreneurial approach from other more traditional airlines," 
says John Strickland, one of the UK's leading aviation consultants."Carriers such as British Airways and KLM are 
adopting a much more flexible approach to capacity deployment."&lt;div class="rightpullquote"&gt;"Low cost airlines 
have always been the most dynamic at starting new and unserved routes."&lt;/div&gt;Alexandre de Juniac, CEO of 
the International Air Transport Association (IATA), agrees that the market for unserved routes has become more 
diverse.Ultimately, he believes, airlines whether they are legacy carriers or budget players are subjected to the 
same main factors: distance, availability of aircraft and demand in the market."I really think growth in this space can 
come from both," he says. "There are two factors at play. One is how fuel-efficient and economical the aircraft is. 
The likes of the Airbus A350, irrespective of who it belongs to, is able to serve medium-sized routes between 
medium-sized destinations."Then you have to consider the commercial planning of the airlines. Both budget and 
legacy airlines are able to serve these types of destinations."Everyone always thinks about touristic destinations or 
leisure destinations served by low-cost long-haul carriers. Yes, these are interesting steps, but legacy parties have 
the potential to open up new routes to new cities as well."&lt;h2&gt;Early days: the role of big data in route 
design&lt;/h2&gt;The Skyscanner project also highlights the role big data has to play in helping airlines in deciding 
on their route designs. However, despite its potential, the use of big data in the aviation industry for such purposes 
is still a work in progress."So far we are not seeing big data hires directly for route design," says Strickland. "But it is 
certainly becoming a pivotal factor in changing the planning and analysis of airline networks."2018 will see the 
realisation of more "Unserved Route of the Week" nominations, which include a new Denver-Paris Charles de 
Gaulle service, starting in April courtesy of Norwegian, and Budapest-New York JFK in May, operated by LOT 
Polish Airlines.Aviation has always prided itself on a sense of adventure that defined its earliest beginnings. Airlines 
able to draw up new routes will not only tap into this same vein of exploration, but they will also create a more 
competitive industry.
Load-Date: August 20, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair grows passenger numbers in July despite disruption E Ryanair grew passenger numbers by 4% to 
133.5 million in July despite experiencing over 1,000 fligh....
Ryanair grows passenger numbers in July despite disruption;  E Ryanair 
grew passenger numbers by 4% to 133.5 million in July despite experiencing 
over 1,000 flight cancellations during the month.
Flight International
August 2, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 90 words
Body
Ryanair increased passenger numbers by 4% to 13.1 million in July despite experiencing more than 1,000 flight 
cancellations during the month.
The airline says the rise in traffic was achieved even though 200,000 of its customers had their flights cancelled due 
to adverse weather and "unnecessary" pilot and cabin-crew strikes across Europe.
Load factors held steady at 97%.
Rolling annual traffic to July grew 7% to 133.5 million passengers.
Ryanair’s chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs says the growth was achieved "on the back of lower fares".
Load-Date: August 2, 2018
End of Document
Pilot Union VC Says No Specific Date For Strike At Ryanair
Pilot Union VC Says No Specific Date For Strike At Ryanair
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
August 2, 2018 Thursday 1:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 165 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - The Association Cockpit still said no specific date for a strike at the German bases of the 
budget airline Ryanair. At first, the deadline set for next Monday (6 August) will be given to the company, a 
spokesman for the pilot union said Thursday in Frankfurt. If  Ryanair have not  submitted an improved offer by then, 
they will announce further action on Wednesday (8 August).   The German Ryanair pilots have by ballot one Labor 
dispute in principle agreed. This is coordinated at European level with pilot unions in other countries. So far, only 
the Irish have been on strike, planning their fourth work stoppage this Friday (August 3).   Ryanair expects German 
pilots to join the announced strike in Sweden and  Belgium next Friday (10 August) . Marketing chief Kenny Jacobs 
had also announced  a new offer, which will be received by Wednesday at the Vereinigung Cockpit. 'If they're really 
serious, could they finish by Monday,' the union spokesman said.      
Load-Date: August 2, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair boss O'Leary waives (EURO)1m bonus after flight scheduling fiasco
Ryanair boss O'Leary waives (EURO)1m bonus after flight scheduling fiasco
City A.M.
August 2, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 175 words
Byline: JAMES BOOTH
Body
THE CHIEF executive of budget airline Ryanair has waived a near (EURO)1m (£890,000) bonus after a flight 
cancellation crisis last year.
In 2017 a pilot scheduling mix up led to the cancellation of nearly 20,000 flights affecting more than 700,000 
passengers.
The company's boss Michael O'Leary waived his bonus as a result, its annual report revealed yesterday.
Last year O'Leary received a (EURO)950,000 bonus, while the previous year it was (EURO)850,000.
O'Leary still received a basic salary of (EURO)1.06m and (EURO)1.25m in share-based compensation.
The crisis led to the exit of the airline's chief operations officer Michael Hickey in October.
Ryanair's passengers have also faced disruption this year because of strikes by pilots, cabin crew and ground staff 
over pay and conditions.
The airline said it could cut more than 300 jobs in Ireland as a result of the strikes which it said had hit consumer 
confidence.
Ryanair is cutting its Ireland-based fleet from 30 aircraft to 24 and is instead investing in its Polish fleet to take it up 
to 10 aircraft.
Load-Date: August 2, 2018
Ryanair boss O'Leary waives (EURO)1m bonus after flight scheduling fiasco
End of Document
European ADRs Move Lower in Wednesday Trading
European ADRs Move Lower in Wednesday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
August 1, 2018 Wednesday 11:13 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 232 words
Body
 American Depositary Receipts of European stocks were trading 0.48% lower at 140.03 on the Bank of New York 
Mellon Europe ADR Index on Wednesday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by software company Talend (TLND), and pharmaceutical company 
Grifols (GRFS), which rose 2.5% each, followed by kidney dialysis company Fresenius Medical Care (FMS), and 
biotech firm MorphoSys (MOR), which were up 2.4% and 2.1% respectively.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by marketing company Criteo (CRTO), which tumbled 20.6%, followed 
by pharmaceutical firm Oasmia Pharmaceutical (OASM), and biopharmaceutical company Forward Pharma (FWP), 
which shed 5% and 4.2% respectively. Telecommunications operator Telecom Italia (TI) was down 1.1%.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by biopharmaceutical firm NuCana (NCNA), which surged 6.2%, 
followed by biotech company Shire (SHPG), which was up 1.5%. Lloyds Banking Group (LYG), and 
biopharmaceutical company Adaptimmune Therapeutics (ADAP), which were up 1.4% and 1.3% respectively. 
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by natural gas distributor National Grid (NGG), and airline operator 
Ryanair (RYAAY), which lost 2.9% and 2.8% respectively. They were followed by mining company Rio Tinto (RIO), 
and construction materials supplier CRH (CRH), which were off 2.8% and 2.5%. 
Price: 22.30, Change: +1.19, Percent Change: +5.64
Load-Date: August 2, 2018
End of Document
Contrasting easyJet (EJTTF) and Ryanair (RYAAY)
Contrasting easyJet (EJTTF) and Ryanair (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
August 1, 2018 Wednesday 10:11 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 441 words
Body
Aug 01, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  easyJet (OTCMKTS: EJTTF) 
and Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) are both transportation companies, but which is the better business? We will 
contrast the two companies based on the strength of their dividends, analyst recommendations, earnings, 
institutional ownership, profitability, valuation and risk. 
Risk ...latility easyJet has a beta of 1.39, meaning that its share price is 39% more volatile than the S...00. 
Comparatively, Ryanair has a beta of 0.67, meaning that its share price is 33% less volatile than the S...00. 
ProfitabilityThis table compares easyJet and Ryanair's net margins, return on equity and return on assets. Analyst 
RatingsThis is a breakdown of current ratings and recommmendations for easyJet and Ryanair, as reported by 
MarketBeat.com. Valuation and Earnings This table compares easyJet and Ryanair's revenue, earnings per share 
(EPS) and valuation. Ryanair has higher revenue and earnings than easyJet. Institutional and Insider 
Ownership43.8% of Ryanair shares are owned by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an 
indication that large money managers, hedge funds and endowments believe a stock is poised for long-term 
growth.SummaryRyanair beats easyJet on 8 of the 10 factors compared between the two stocks.easyJet Company 
ProfileeasyJet plc, together with its subsidiaries, operates as an airline carrier primarily in Europe. As of September 
30, 2017, it operated 862 routes and a fleet of 279 aircraft. The company also engages in the trading and leasing of 
aircrafts; and the provision of graphic design services. easyJet plc was founded in 1995 and is based in Luton, the 
United Kingdom.Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-
passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers 
various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets 
accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food, and merchandise. In addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and 
through its Website; and markets car parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its 
Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 
scheduled short-haul flights per day serving approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was 
founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, Ireland. 
Load-Date: August 1, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair 's brand takes hit but customers still like its price
Ryanair's brand takes hit but customers still like its price
City A.M.
August 1, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 353 words
Byline: Stephan Shakespeare
Body
-20 -30 -40 -50 -60 -70 -80 30 AS STRIKES, flight cancellations and news of potential job losses blight the budget 
airline Ryanair, YouGov BrandIndex data indicates how perception of the brand is taking a hit.
YouGov brand tracking data shows that Ryanair's buzz score (whether someone has heard something about a 
brand, and if so, if it was positive or negative) has declined sharply over the last few days. Its score has moved from 
minus 13 to minus 35 since news of cancellations emerged. This score has not bottomed out yet, so we may expect 
it to decline further still, as Ryanair's struggles linger.
That being said, the score has a long way to go to match the low that Ryanair experienced in late September/early 
October 2017, during which time its rating plummeted to minus 70.
The knock-on effect of negative headlines in this case is that Ryanair's impression score has also suffered.
On this metric, Ryanair's rating has already dropped from minus 35 to minus 48. This score places the brand at the 
bottom of the airline sector on this metric by a significant amount. Again though, this is someway short of the low of 
minus 62 that the brand's impression score fell to in autumn 2017.
Despite this, the good news for Ryanair is that so far the negative news has not had a huge impact on whether 
potential customers would consider travelling with the airline. Its purchase consideration score has remained 
around the 22 per cent mark. While this score is consistent with its rating from the last few months, it is not as high 
as the 25 per cent that said they'd consider flying with Ryanair pre-2017 crisis.
Perhaps this suggests that while cancellations and rescheduled flights are infuriating for those impacted, for a large 
part of the public Ryanair remains an option due to its core offering which is, essentially, cheap prices.
Ryanair 's brand takes hit but customers still like its price
That being said, the longer negative news lasts, and the more people that have their holidays compromised, the 
harder it will be for Ryanair to regain positive momentum, and the more people may be put off travelling with the 
brand.
£ Stephan Shakespeare is the chief executive of YouGov
Load-Date: August 1, 2018
End of Document
Financial Analysis: Ryanair ( RYAAY ) and Air France-KLM (AFLYY)
Financial Analysis: Ryanair (RYAAY) and Air France-KLM (AFLYY)
Transcript Daily
August 1, 2018 Wednesday 10:11 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 536 words
Body
Aug 01, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair (NASDAQ: RYAAY) and 
Air France-KLM (OTCMKTS:AFLYY) are both transportation companies, but which is the better stock? We will 
compare the two businesses based on the strength of their institutional ownership, risk, valuation, earnings, analyst 
recommendations, profitability and dividends. 
ProfitabilityThis table compares Ryanair and Air France-KLM's net margins, return on equity and return on assets. 
Risk and Volatility Ryanair has a beta of 0.67, suggesting that its share price is 33% less volatile than the S...00. 
Comparatively, Air France-KLM has a beta of 0.62, suggesting that its share price is 38% less volatile than the 
S...00. Analyst RatingsThis is a summary of current ratings and target prices for Ryanair and Air France-KLM, as 
reported by MarketBeat. Earnings and Valuation This table compares Ryanair and Air France-KLM's top-line 
revenue, earnings per share and valuation. Ryanair has higher earnings, but lower revenue than Air France-KLM. 
Air France-KLM is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more 
affordable of the two stocks. Institutional ...sider Ownership43.8% of Ryanair shares are owned by institutional 
investors. Comparatively, 4.7% of Air France-KLM shares are owned by institutional investors. Strong institutional 
ownership is an indication that hedge funds, large money managers and endowments believe a company will 
outperform the market over the long term.SummaryRyanair beats Air France-KLM on 9 of the 11 factors compared 
between the two stocks.About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-
passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers 
various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets 
accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food, and merchandise. In addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and 
through its Website; and markets car parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its 
Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 
scheduled short-haul flights per day serving approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was 
founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, Ireland.About Air France-KLMAir France-KLM SA, together with 
its subsidiaries, provides passenger transportation services on scheduled flights. The company operates through 
Network, Maintenance, Transavia, and Other segments. It also offers cargo transportation and aeronautics 
maintenance services; and other air-transport-related services. The company operates in France, Benelux, Europe, 
Africa, the Middle East, Gulf, India, the Asia-Pacific, North America, Caribbean, West Indies, French Guyana, Indian 
Ocean, and South America. As of December 31, 2017, it operated fleet of 545 aircraft. Air France-KLM SA was 
founded in 1919 and is headquartered in Paris, France. 
Financial Analysis: Ryanair ( RYAAY ) and Air France-KLM (AFLYY)
Load-Date: August 1, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair pilots in Sweden to strike on August 10
Ryanair pilots in Sweden to strike on August 10
Business World (Digest)
August 01, 2018 Wednesday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: WORLD
Length: 127 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair pilots in Sweden will go on strike on August 10, the Swedish Airline Pilots Association said on Wednesday, 
citing management's failure to meet with union representatives for more than eight months.
Ryanair has experienced recent strikes in its bigger markets of Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Italy andIreland and faces 
planned action in Germany as the budget carrier struggles to reach collective labour agreements across Europe.
"No collective agreements have been agreed anywhere in Europe and Ryanair's hostile relations with its employees 
once again showed on several occasions, lately through intimidation and threats to Irish pilots after they used their 
legal right to strike," the Swedish union said in a statement. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 30, 2018
End of Document
Primera to scrap short-haul flights from Birmingham Primera Air will cancel all of its short-haul flights from the 
UK's Birmingham airport and one route from Lo....
Primera to scrap short-haul flights from Birmingham; Primera Air will cancel 
all of its short-haul flights from the UK's Birmingham airport and one route 
from London Stansted later this year.
Flight International
August 1, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 200 words
Body
Primera Air will end all of its short-haul flights from the UK's Birmingham airport and close one route from London 
Stansted later this year.
The Scandinavian carrier says its services from Birmingham to Alicante, Las Palmas on Gran Canaria, Malaga, 
Reykjavik and Tenerife will be terminated on 3 September. Flights to Palma de Mallorca and Barcelona will cease 
on 20 October.
Primera blames a "capacity reduction" for the decision to halt the services. The airline suspended its long-haul 
flights from Birmingham to New York and Toronto in June, which the UK airport attributed to "ongoing late delivery" 
of an Airbus A321neo.
Additionally, the carrier says it will end its service from Stansted to Alicante on 1 October and reduce the frequency 
of flights from the London airport to Malaga, to five per week.
FlightGlobal schedules data indicates that from Birmingham. Malaga is served by British Airways, Jet2, Ryanair and 
TUI; Alicante by Jet2 and Ryanair; Barcelona by Ryanair and Vueling; Tenerife by Jet2, Ryanair, Thomas Cook and 
TUI; Gran Canaria by Jet2, Ryanair and Thomas Cook; and Palma de Mallorca by BA, Jet2, Ryanair and Thomas 
Cook.
Jet2, Ryanair and Thomas Cook fly to Alicante from Stansted.
Load-Date: August 1, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair reveals Laudamotion fleet plans
Ryanair reveals Laudamotion fleet plans
AirFinance Journal
August 2018
Copyright 2018 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 144 words
Byline: Jack Dutton
Body
Ryanair has confirmed its plans for Laudamotion, the Austrian low-cost carrier, after finalising its acquisition of a 
75% stake in the airline from former Formula 1 driver Niki Lauda.
The Irish airline said Laudamotion would double its Airbus fleet from nine to 18 aircraft in summer 2019.
The airline says it has confirmed delivery dates for nine additional Airbus A320 aircraft.
In early 2016, Niki Lauda took ownership of the airline Niki after Air Berlin, the parent company that acquired it in 
2011, went bankrupt. He then rebranded the airline as Laudamotion.
On 20 March 2018, Ryanair said it would acquire a major stake in Laudamotion for &euro;50 million ($58.35 
million), after offers from IAG and Lufthansa were rejected. While Ryanair will provide financial and management 
support to Laudamotion, Niki Lauda will remain chairman of the board of the airline.
Load-Date: February 12, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair threatens to move more jobs to Poland
Ryanair threatens to move more jobs to Poland
Business World (Digest)
July 31, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 392 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Faced with the prospect of widening strikes by crews in Europe, Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary on 
Tuesday threatened to move more jobs to Poland if walk-outs hurt its business.
Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers pledged in December to recognise unions for the first time but it has 
struggled to reach collective labour agreements with some.
Its pilots in Germany voted overwhelmingly on Monday in favour of striking, adding to Ryanair's recent labour woes 
after strikes last week by Dublin-based pilots and stoppages by cabin crew in Italy, Spain, Portugal and Belgium.
Ryanair, which operates from 86 bases in 37 countries and carried 130 million passengers last year, has already 
said it plans to move crew and planes from Dublin, saying strikes there are harming bookings.
O'Leary on Tuesday said he was prepared to cut jobs "in any market" if necessary.
"We are the ultimate opportunistic airline," O'Leary told a news conference at its Austrian unit Laudamotion's 
offices.
"We have today - in Ryanair - 20 markets that need more aircraft. We're short of aircraft in almost every market in 
which we operate because of the demand for our prices, our services," he said, adding those included Poland, 
which is home to its Ryanair Sun unit.
"If some market is being damaged as the Irish market has been damaged in recent months by these activities, the 
Polish market is growing hugely strongly for us, the Ryanair Sun is very full, profitable, we need more aircraft in the 
Polish market - move aircraft to Poland."
Ryanair threatens to move more jobs to Poland
Pilots are demanding more transparent systems for promotions and transfers to reduce what they say is excessive 
management discretion over their careers, while cabin crew want local contracts and better conditions.
"As long as there's common sense on their side then we'll reach agreements," O'Leary said, speaking of unions and 
pilots in general.
"If we have people who just want to have strikes for the sake of having strikes then they can have strikes and they'll 
find themselves (with) jobs getting moved and aircraft getting moved."
O'Leary also said he wanted to grow Laudamotion and Ryanair Sun more quickly, which would require additional 
planes and crew - a challenge in today's environment. If an airline collapsed, however, that would make crew and 
planes more readily available. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 30, 2018
End of Document
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
City A.M.
July 31, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 2
Length: 420 words
Body
FINANCIAL TIMES CHINA PLANS TIGHTER CONTROLS ON ACQUISITIONS Foreigners seeking "strategic" 
stakes in listed Chinese companies could face broader national security reviews under new rules drafted by China's 
commerce ministry, a sign Beijing is preparing to hit back at western efforts to curb Chinese acquisitions of 
sensitive technologies. The proposed amendments to existing investment rules expand the universe of foreign 
investments covered by China's formal national security review process.
TRUMP WILLING TO MEET IRAN LEADERS President Donald Trump said yesterday he was willing to meet the 
leaders of Iran without any preconditions, opening the door to possible negotiations with the Tehran regime just 
months after he withdrew the US from the 2015 nuclear deal.
THE TIMES HUNT SORRY FOR 'TERRIBLE' WIFE GAFFE Jeremy Hunt yesterday admitted making a "terrible 
mistake" after saying his Chinese wife was Japanese during a diplomatic mission to Beijing.
FLIGHT MH370 WAS TURNED AROUND MANUALLY The controls of the doomed Flight MH370 that disappeared 
four years ago were deliberately "manipulated" before it crashed into the sea, an international investigation has 
concluded. The findings, released yesterday, stated that the Beijing-bound aircraft's sudden change of course 37 
minutes after it took off was "difficult to attribute" to a system failure.
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH RAIL BOSS: OUR TRAINS ARE THE ENVY OF EUROPE A rail boss has been accused 
of "living on another planet" after claiming that Britain's railways are the envy of Western Europe. Robert Nisbet, 
regional director of the Rail Delivery Group which represents train companies, said that other EU nations can "only 
dream" of having the UK's levels of punctuality and efficiency.
RYANAIR FACES FRESH STRIKE THREAT Ryanair is facing fresh strikes after German pilots voted 
overwhelmingly in favour of industrial action. Some 96 per cent of a pilot union yesterday backed a walk-out.
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL GE PUTS DIGITAL ASSETS ON THE BLOCK General Electric is seeking a buyer 
for key parts of its digital business as the beleaguered industrial conglomerate unwinds a signature initiative of 
former chief executive Jeff Immelt amid a broader retrenchment. The Bostonbased company has hired an 
investment bank to run an auction for the operations, according to sources.
HARLEY PLANS SMALLER MOTORCYCLES Harley-Davidson yesterday said it would add smaller, more versatile 
motorcycles to its lineup as it tries to attract the younger riders it needs to grow sales.
Load-Date: July 31, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa 'well prepared' for more competition at Vienna Lufthansa is "well prepared" for the arrival of 
additional competition at Vienna airport, argues the ai....
Lufthansa 'well prepared' for more competition at Vienna; Lufthansa is "well 
prepared" for the arrival of additional competition at Vienna airport, argues 
the airline group's finance chief Ulrik Svensson.
Flight International
July 31, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 240 words
Body
Lufthansa is "well prepared" for the arrival of additional competition at Vienna airport, argues the airline group's 
finance chief Ulrik Svensson.
Briefing analysts today, Svensson acknowledged "a large gathering of many competitors" at the Austrian capital's 
gateway but added that this was "nothing which is new for us". He notes that the German carrier faces increased 
competition at its Frankfurt base.
Svensson says customers appreciate the "very good product" offered by Austrian Airlines. He cites the Lufthansa 
subsidiary's "high frequencies" from Vienna.
Wizz Air and Laudamotion activated new bases at Vienna this summer, while IAG budget carrier subsidiary Level 
began short-haul European flights from there earlier this month.
Earlier this month, Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary warned of "price wars" at Vienna this winter.
Austrian has reported a 68 million ($70 million) operating profit for the second quarter, an increase of 7%. However, 
its first-half operating profit fell to 1 million, from 7 million in the same period of 2017. The carrier attributes the 
decline to increased fuel prices and higher expenses related to "flight irregularities resulting from thunderstorms, 
airspace restrictions as well as works meetings [with labour representatives] in March 2018".
Svensson says that while there had been a "large improvement" in profitability at Austrian, there is still more to be 
done to reduce the carrier's costs.
Load-Date: August 1, 2018
Lufthansa 'well prepared' for more competition at Vienna Lufthansa is "well prepared" for the arrival of 
additional competition at Vienna airport, argues the ai....
End of Document
Ryanair faces further strikes after German pilots' vote; Airlines
Ryanair faces further strikes after German pilots' vote; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 31, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 375 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair's German pilots have voted for industrial action, joining several of the airline's other unions across Europe, 
as a summer of strikes looks set to spread.
The pilots, 96 per cent of whom voted to act in support of their preferred labour contracts, have given the airline 
until next Monday to submit "a workable proposal" before announcing a date for action.
Ingolf Schumacher, chairman of industrial relations at Vereinigung Cockpit (VC), the union, said: "Since the start of 
our negotiations in January, Ryanair has been playing for time. Even if Ryanair is not taking this ballot seriously, 
industrial action like in other European countries seems unavoidable in Germany as well."
Ryanair has 10 bases and 328 pilots in Germany, representing 7.6 per cent of the airline's workforce, according to 
analysts at Bernstein, which estimates that more than half belong to VC. The German pilots also went on strike in 
December 2017.
The airline said: "We have written to the VC today and invited them to another meeting next week. We hope we can 
make further progress in concluding a collective labour agreement with our pilots in Germany."
Ryanair has been plagued by strikes this summer, from its employees and air traffic control staff across Europe.
Ryanair faces further strikes after German pilots' vote; Airlines
Its Irish pilots' union staged three days of strikes in July and, after chief executive Michael O'Leary threatened to 
make some staff redundant, announced another for Friday. Cabin crew in Spain, Portugal and Belgium staged a 
two-day strike last week. All want improved pay and conditions.
Ryanair agreed to recognise its unions in December after it was forced to cancel thousands of flights because of a 
rostering failure that led to a shortage of air crew. Staff were emboldened to push for better terms following the 
crisis.
French air traffic controllers have been staging strikes for months, which Mr O'Leary has criticised.
He has said: "Europe's ATC providers are reaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights being cancelled 
and delayed daily either because of ATC strikes or because Europe's ATC don't have enough staff."
Ryanair has filed a legal complaint with the European Commission claiming that the ATC strikes are breaching EU 
citizens' fundamental right to freedom of movement.
Load-Date: July 30, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair faces further strikes after German pilots' vote Airlines
Ryanair faces further strikes after German pilots' vote; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 31, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 375 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair's German pilots have voted for industrial action, joining several of the airline's other unions across Europe, 
as a summer of strikes looks set to spread.
The pilots, 96 per cent of whom voted to act in support of their preferred labour contracts, have given the airline 
until next Monday to submit "a workable proposal" before announcing a date for action.
Ingolf Schumacher, chairman of industrial relations at Vereinigung Cockpit (VC), the union, said: "Since the start of 
our negotiations in January, Ryanair has been playing for time. Even if Ryanair is not taking this ballot seriously, 
industrial action like in other European countries seems unavoidable in Germany as well."
Ryanair has 10 bases and 328 pilots in Germany, representing 7.6 per cent of the airline's workforce, according to 
analysts at Bernstein, which estimates that more than half belong to VC. The German pilots also went on strike in 
December 2017.
The airline said: "We have written to the VC today and invited them to another meeting next week. We hope we can 
make further progress in concluding a collective labour agreement with our pilots in Germany."
Ryanair has been plagued by strikes this summer, from its employees and air traffic control staff across Europe.
Ryanair faces further strikes after German pilots' vote Airlines
Its Irish pilots' union staged three days of strikes in July and, after chief executive Michael O'Leary threatened to 
make some staff redundant, announced another for Friday. Cabin crew in Spain, Portugal and Belgium staged a 
two-day strike last week. All want improved pay and conditions.
Ryanair agreed to recognise its unions in December after it was forced to cancel thousands of flights because of a 
rostering failure that led to a shortage of air crew. Staff were emboldened to push for better terms following the 
crisis.
French air traffic controllers have been staging strikes for months, which Mr O'Leary has criticised.
He has said: "Europe's ATC providers are reaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights being cancelled 
and delayed daily either because of ATC strikes or because Europe's ATC don't have enough staff."
Ryanair has filed a legal complaint with the European Commission claiming that the ATC strikes are breaching EU 
citizens' fundamental right to freedom of movement.
Load-Date: July 30, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair faces further strikes after German pilots' vote Airlines
Ryanair faces further strikes after German pilots' vote; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 31, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 375 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair's German pilots have voted for industrial action, joining several of the airline's other unions across Europe, 
as a summer of strikes looks set to spread.
The pilots, 96 per cent of whom voted to act in support of their preferred labour contracts, have given the airline 
until next Monday to submit "a workable proposal" before announcing a date for action.
Ingolf Schumacher, chairman of industrial relations at Vereinigung Cockpit (VC), the union, said: "Since the start of 
our negotiations in January, Ryanair has been playing for time. Even if Ryanair is not taking this ballot seriously, 
industrial action like in other European countries seems unavoidable in Germany as well."
Ryanair has 10 bases and 328 pilots in Germany, representing 7.6 per cent of the airline's workforce, according to 
analysts at Bernstein, which estimates that more than half belong to VC. The German pilots also went on strike in 
December 2017.
The airline said: "We have written to the VC today and invited them to another meeting next week. We hope we can 
make further progress in concluding a collective labour agreement with our pilots in Germany."
Ryanair has been plagued by strikes this summer, from its employees and air traffic control staff across Europe.
Ryanair faces further strikes after German pilots' vote Airlines
Its Irish pilots' union staged three days of strikes in July and, after chief executive Michael O'Leary threatened to 
make some staff redundant, announced another for Friday. Cabin crew in Spain, Portugal and Belgium staged a 
two-day strike last week. All want improved pay and conditions.
Ryanair agreed to recognise its unions in December after it was forced to cancel thousands of flights because of a 
rostering failure that led to a shortage of air crew. Staff were emboldened to push for better terms following the 
crisis.
French air traffic controllers have been staging strikes for months, which Mr O'Leary has criticised.
He has said: "Europe's ATC providers are reaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights being cancelled 
and delayed daily either because of ATC strikes or because Europe's ATC don't have enough staff."
Ryanair has filed a legal complaint with the European Commission claiming that the ATC strikes are breaching EU 
citizens' fundamental right to freedom of movement.
Load-Date: July 30, 2018
End of Document
German pilots add to Ryanair 's strikes misery Airlines ; Group receives ultimatum after vote for industrial action 
over contracts
German pilots add to Ryanair's strikes misery; Airlines ; Group receives 
ultimatum after vote for industrial action over contracts
Financial Times (London, England)
July 31, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 17
Length: 431 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
German pilots working for Ryanair have voted for industrial action, joining several of the airline's other unions 
across Europe, as a summer of strikes looks poised to spread.
The pilots, 96 per cent of whom voted to act in support of their preferred labour contracts, have given the airline 
until next Monday to submit "a workable proposal" before announcing a date for action.
Ingolf Schumacher, the chairman of industrial relations at Vereinigung Cockpit (VC), the union, said: "Since the start 
of our negotiations in January, Ryanair has been playing for time. Even if Ryanair is not taking this ballot seriously, 
industrial action like in other European countries seems unavoidable in Germany as well."
Ryanair has 10 bases and 328 pilots in Germany, representing 7.6 per cent of the airline's workforce, according to 
analysts at Bernstein, which estimates that more than half of the pilots belong to the union. The German pilots went 
on strike in December.
The airline said: "We have written to the VC today and invited them to another meeting next week. We hope we can 
make further progress in concluding a collective labour agreement with our pilots in Germany."
Ryanair has been plagued by strikes this summer, from its employees and air traffic control (ATC) staff in Europe.
German pilots add to Ryanair 's strikes misery Airlines ; Group receives ultimatum after vote for industrial action 
over contracts
The Irish pilots' union staged three days of strikes this month and, after the chief executive Michael O'Leary 
threatened to make some staff redundant, announced another for Friday. Cabin crew in Spain, Portugal and 
Belgium staged a two-day strike last week. They want improved pay and conditions.
Ryanair agreed to recognise its unions in December after it was forced to cancel thousands of flights because of a 
rostering failure that led to a shortage of air crew. Staff were emboldened to push for better terms following the 
crisis.
French air traffic controllers have been staging strikes for months, which Mr O'Leary has labelled "unacceptable".
He has said: "Europe's ATC providers are reaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights being cancelled 
and delayed daily either because of ATC strikes or because Europe's ATC don't have enough staff."
Ryanair has filed a legal complaint with the European Commission claiming that the strikes breach the right of EU 
citizens to freedom of movement.
The ATC shortages and strikes have hit Ryanair's pre-tax profit, which fell 22 per cent after it cancelled 2,500 flights 
and paid 40 per cent more in compensation than in the same quarter last year.
'Europe's air traffic control providers are reaching the point of meltdown' Michael O'Leary, Ryanair CEO
Load-Date: July 30, 2018
End of Document
Carriers file formal complaint over French ATC strikes
Carriers file formal complaint over French ATC strikes
Flight International
July 31, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AIR TRANSPORT
Length: 32 words
Body
E
“When Greece and Italy have ATC strikes, overflights continue as normal. Why won’t France do the same?”Michael 
O’LearyChief executive, Ryanair
Iberia
Flights to Spain have been particularly affected
Load-Date: July 31, 2018
End of Document
German Ryanair pilots vote [...] Briefing
German Ryanair pilots vote [...]; Briefing
Financial Times (London, England)
July 31, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 39 words
Body
? German Ryanair pilots vote to strike German pilots working for the Irish low-cost carrier have voted for industrial 
action, joining several of the airline's other unions across Europe as a summer of strikes looks set to spread.- 
PAGE 17
Load-Date: July 30, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair strikes widen as German pilots vote for stoppages
Ryanair strikes widen as German pilots vote for stoppages
Business World (Digest)
July 30, 2018 Monday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 235 words
Byline: Business World
Body
German pilots working for Ryanair have voted to strike as they push for collective labour agreements at Europe's 
largest low-cost carrier, their union said on Monday.
Ryanair management had met with the Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) pilot union in Frankfurt last week. VC said the 
talks ended without the progress they had hoped for.
The union is giving Ryanair until Aug. 6 to make another offer, VC said in a statement, announcing it would host a 
press conference on Aug 8 to discuss its next steps.
Ryanair said in December it would recognise unions for the first time but has been struggling to reach agreements 
with some. It cancelled flights after strikes last week by Dublin-based pilots and stoppages by cabin crew in Italy, 
Spain, Portugal and Belgium.
It also said it planned to shift aircraft and jobs out of Dublin, saying that strikes by Irish pilots had harmed bookings.
VC said 96% of Ryanair pilots in Germany voted in favour of strike action. It will give at least 24 hours' notice of any 
strikes, it said.
"Ryanair has been playing for time in the negotiations since January," VC said. "If the signal given by this vote is 
not taken seriously, then strikes - such as in other European countries - are inevitable."
German pilots were the first to strike at Ryanair last year, but the disruption was limited.
Ryanair did not immediately respond to a request for comment. (Reuters)
Ryanair strikes widen as German pilots vote for stoppages
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 29, 2018
End of Document
IAG CEO Optimistic Over Legal Bid To End Air Traffic Strike Misery
IAG CEO Optimistic Over Legal Bid To End Air Traffic Strike Misery
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 30, 2018 Monday 1:26 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 656 words
Body
 The boss of British Airways-owner International Consolidated Airlines Group SA has said he is "optimistic" over a 
legal challenge to end crippling strikes, but warned over long-term disruptions for fliers if it does not succeed.
IAG Chief Executive Willie Walsh told the Press Association that France's air traffic control strikes risk damaging 
passenger confidence and bookings if they do not end soon.
He said last week's co-ordinated action by IAG, easyJet PLC, Ryanair Holdings PLC and Wizz Air Holdings PLC to 
complain to the European Commission against France's industrial action showed the level of concern among 
carriers.
"This is an example of where fierce rivals come together on a matter of common concern and the interests of our 
industry," he said.
"When you get the likes of IAG, Ryanair, easyJet and Wizz Air coming together saying the same thing and arguing 
for the same thing, people do take notice."
He added he was "optimistic" the complaint will effect change, and said "the fact we are prepared to make a formal 
complaint and pursue legal channels demonstrates the concern".
The four airlines claim France's strikes breach the "fundamental principle of freedom of movement within the EU", 
having already caused tens of thousands of flights to be cancelled this year, impacting millions of passengers.
They allege that France is breaking EU law by not enabling flights over the country during strikes, denying 
passengers their fundamental freedom to travel between member states not affected by strike action.
The air traffic control strikes are costly for airlines and hugely disruptive for passengers, especially in France, as 
many UK flights need to use the country's air space or fly longer routes to avoid it.
Mr Walsh said the industrial action has been particularly disruptive for IAG's Spanish low-cost airline Vueling, which 
was forced to cancel more than 900 flights in June as a result of the strikes, impacting around 150,000 passengers.
IAG CEO Optimistic Over Legal Bid To End Air Traffic Strike Misery
BA has been impacted to a lesser extent, with 45 flights cancelled as a result in June, but the cost to IAG will be 
revealed in its half-year results on Friday.
"It's impacted on business people, families travelling on holidays and people who have had the need to travel for 
urgent requirements, so it's hugely disruptive and could be avoided," said Mr Walsh.
Ryanair and easyJet have also laid bare the impact of the strikes in recent weeks, with around 2,000 flights 
cancelled between them both in June alone as a result of the action.
Luton-based easyJet revealed in July it had taken a GBP25 million hit from the disruption as it was forced to pay 
passengers compensation.
French ATC strikes have increased by 300% so far this year.
More than 16,000 flights were delayed in the first half of 2018 alone due to ATC strikes, affecting more than two 
million passengers, according to Eurocontrol figures.
Mr Walsh said there has been some respite in July, with France suspending its ATC strikes, but warned it will only 
be brief.
"This year has been a very bad year for ATC strike delays, but if we don't do something about it, it's only going to 
get worse," he said.
"This problem will reoccur."
The airlines want the Commission to insist France allows overflights during its strikes so that the disruption is not 
more widespread.
They believe there is legal precedent to this case, dating back to 1997, when the Spanish complained to the 
European Commission after French farmers prevented their fruit and vegetable exports into the EU.
The European Court ruled against France as the French authorities did not address the farmers' actions and failed 
to ensure the free movement of goods.
Mr Walsh admitted the legal avenue they have pursued is "not a quick process", but should prevent future 
disruption on such a devastating scale.
"It's important that we lodge this case and see action being taken," he said.
By Holly Williams, Press Association Deputy City Editor
source: Press Association
Load-Date: July 31, 2018
End of Document
German union says Ryanair pilots vote to strike over pay
German union says Ryanair pilots vote to strike over pay
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 30, 2018 Monday 9:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 125 words
Dateline: BERLIN 
Body
BERLIN (AP) - German pilots at budget airline Ryanair have voted to strike unless a dispute over pay is resolved in 
the coming days.
The Vereinigung Cockpit labor union said Monday that 96 percent of the Ryanair pilots who voted supported the 
work stoppage.
It accused the airline of "playing for time" in talks since January on a collective pay agreement.
The union said it is "offering Ryanair a final deadline to submit a workable proposal by Aug. 6, 2018."
Europe's second-biggest airline by passenger numbers has seen staff in Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Belgium strike 
over pay in recent months.
Ryanair said it has invited union representatives to meet next week.
A strike next week would coincide with the end of summer holidays in parts of Germany.
Load-Date: July 31, 2018
End of Document
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras; Aviation. Growth push ; Services such as car hire and theatre ticket 
sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras; Aviation. Growth push ; Services 
such as car hire and theatre ticket sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
Financial Times (London, England)
July 30, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 779 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Selling theatre tickets for musicals Les Miserables and Wicked is not normally associated with low-cost airlines 
such as Ryanair.
But as the oil price has risen and fares stay competitive, these so-called ancillary revenues are becoming essential 
to the airlines' business model.
"2018 may well be a defining moment in aviation as airlines begin to report more revenue from their retailing than 
the cost of the initial air ticket," said John Grant, partner at consultancy Midas Aviation.
Ancillary revenues have soared in the 10 years to 2017. The top 10 global airlines, ranked by total ancillary 
revenue, increased them from $2.1bn to $29.7bn, according to IdeaWorksCompany and CarTrawler.
United Airlines led with $5.8bn, three-fifths of which came from what IWC called "à la carte" sources, such as 
charges for extra bags, and travel retail commissions. The rest was frequentflyer programmes.
Mr Grant cited ultra-low-cost carriers such as the US's Spirit Airlines, where ticket revenue for 2017 was $328m and 
non-ticket revenue was $329m, as an example of how the emphasis on ancillary revenues was accelerating. As 
part of its effort to increase ancillary revenue, Abu Dhabi-based airline Etihad has announced "a dynamic live 
auction" where passengers can bid to upgrade their cabin class.
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras; Aviation. Growth push ; Services such as car hire and theatre ticket 
sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
At Ryanair, chief executive Michael O'Leary has long talked about turning his low-cost airline into "the Amazon of 
travel".
Last week, Ryanair was one of several low-cost carriers that trumpeted growth in these revenues in their results, 
with its ancillaries up by a quarter.
Ancillaries made up (EURO)2bn, or 28 per cent, of Ryanair's total revenue in 2017-18 and Mr O'Leary wants them 
to grow to 30 per cent. They will also go some way to offsetting losses from recent strikes.
Earlier this year, Ryanair's chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs, said: "I'd describe Ryanair as a travel retailer with 
a low-cost airline at its centre. When it comes to digital, you have to think like a retailer."
In the airline's vision of travel as retail, a customer has a hierarchy of needs, starting with a flight, movingto car hire, 
booking a hotel room and buying tickets for activities such as tour guides. The final level is one day providing the 
customer with the opportunity to use the airline's one-stop shop to purchase (for example) clothes at Asos, food at 
Tesco and even sun cream fromNivea.
In essence, Mr Jacobs said, it was about "using data to cross- and up-sell the products you already have to the 
customers you already have".
To grow their online retailing businesses, airlines have looked to companies such as CarTrawler, which works with 
more than 100 airlines, including Norwegian, Emirates and Vueling (part of IAG), to offer a ready-made 
marketplace. This puts insurers, car hire groups and other retailers in one place.
Whereas initially airlines signed exclusive contracts with groups such as car hire companies, "the overall return to 
the airline is bigger" if it has more competition among suppliers, said Car-Trawler's chief technology officer Bobby 
Healy.
He added that Ryanair, one of its customers, had experienced 15-30 per cent growth in sales by moving to a 
marketplace model.
While CarTrawler offers the readymade market, other companies such as Datalex provide the technology to enable 
airlines' websites to connect customers and retailers.
Ornagh Hoban, Datalex's chief marketing officer, said any company with an Amazon-like ambition needs to ask: 
"How do I provide products and services with exceptional precision in a fastmoving digital marketplace?" In 
easyJet's third-quarter trading statement in July, it posted ancillary revenue of £328m, up 21 per cent on the 
previous year and more than a fifth of total revenue. Ancillary options include adding bags.
To drive this higher, easyJet said it would boost its hotel booking business and chief Johan Lundgren announced a 
new boss for easyJet Holidays. The airline said: "Currently only 500,000 passengers book a hotel with us out of an 
addressable market of 20m."
Eurowings, part of the Lufthansa Group, is another low-cost airlinefocusing on its ancillary operations, launching 
Eurowings Digital by the end of 2018 "to bundle all the airline's customer-relevant digital activities under one roof", 
the company said.
However, despite Ryanair's trumpeting, there is significant work to be done. Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, 
said this evolution was "a slow-burn thing" and that low-cost carriers "require a change in customer perception or a 
'leap of faith' that some of these higher value services are what they say on the packet, rather than akin to the 
'basic' service that they receive from the standard ticket".
Graphic
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras; Aviation. Growth push ; Services such as car hire and theatre ticket 
sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
 
Ryanair wants to be the 'Amazon of travel' - Jose Jordan/AFP/Getty
Load-Date: July 29, 2018
End of Document
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras Aviation. Growth push ; Services such as car hire and theatre ticket 
sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras; Aviation. Growth push ; Services 
such as car hire and theatre ticket sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
Financial Times (London, England)
July 30, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 779 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Selling theatre tickets for musicals Les Miserables and Wicked is not normally associated with low-cost airlines 
such as Ryanair.
But as the oil price has risen and fares stay competitive, these so-called ancillary revenues are becoming essential 
to the airlines' business model.
"2018 may well be a defining moment in aviation as airlines begin to report more revenue from their retailing than 
the cost of the initial air ticket," said John Grant, partner at consultancy Midas Aviation.
Ancillary revenues have soared in the 10 years to 2017. The top 10 global airlines, ranked by total ancillary 
revenue, increased them from $2.1bn to $29.7bn, according to IdeaWorksCompany and CarTrawler.
United Airlines led with $5.8bn, three-fifths of which came from what IWC called "à la carte" sources, such as 
charges for extra bags, and travel retail commissions. The rest was frequentflyer programmes.
Mr Grant cited ultra-low-cost carriers such as the US's Spirit Airlines, where ticket revenue for 2017 was $328m and 
non-ticket revenue was $329m, as an example of how the emphasis on ancillary revenues was accelerating. As 
part of its effort to increase ancillary revenue, Abu Dhabi-based airline Etihad has announced "a dynamic live 
auction" where passengers can bid to upgrade their cabin class.
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras Aviation. Growth push ; Services such as car hire and theatre ticket 
sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
At Ryanair, chief executive Michael O'Leary has long talked about turning his low-cost airline into "the Amazon of 
travel".
Last week, Ryanair was one of several low-cost carriers that trumpeted growth in these revenues in their results, 
with its ancillaries up by a quarter.
Ancillaries made up (EURO)2bn, or 28 per cent, of Ryanair's total revenue in 2017-18 and Mr O'Leary wants them 
to grow to 30 per cent. They will also go some way to offsetting losses from recent strikes.
Earlier this year, Ryanair's chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs, said: "I'd describe Ryanair as a travel retailer with 
a low-cost airline at its centre. When it comes to digital, you have to think like a retailer."
In the airline's vision of travel as retail, a customer has a hierarchy of needs, starting with a flight, movingto car hire, 
booking a hotel room and buying tickets for activities such as tour guides. The final level is one day providing the 
customer with the opportunity to use the airline's one-stop shop to purchase (for example) clothes at Asos, food at 
Tesco and even sun cream fromNivea.
In essence, Mr Jacobs said, it was about "using data to cross- and up-sell the products you already have to the 
customers you already have".
To grow their online retailing businesses, airlines have looked to companies such as CarTrawler, which works with 
more than 100 airlines, including Norwegian, Emirates and Vueling (part of IAG), to offer a ready-made 
marketplace. This puts insurers, car hire groups and other retailers in one place.
Whereas initially airlines signed exclusive contracts with groups such as car hire companies, "the overall return to 
the airline is bigger" if it has more competition among suppliers, said Car-Trawler's chief technology officer Bobby 
Healy.
He added that Ryanair, one of its customers, had experienced 15-30 per cent growth in sales by moving to a 
marketplace model.
While CarTrawler offers the readymade market, other companies such as Datalex provide the technology to enable 
airlines' websites to connect customers and retailers.
Ornagh Hoban, Datalex's chief marketing officer, said any company with an Amazon-like ambition needs to ask: 
"How do I provide products and services with exceptional precision in a fastmoving digital marketplace?" In 
easyJet's third-quarter trading statement in July, it posted ancillary revenue of £328m, up 21 per cent on the 
previous year and more than a fifth of total revenue. Ancillary options include adding bags.
To drive this higher, easyJet said it would boost its hotel booking business and chief Johan Lundgren announced a 
new boss for easyJet Holidays. The airline said: "Currently only 500,000 passengers book a hotel with us out of an 
addressable market of 20m."
Eurowings, part of the Lufthansa Group, is another low-cost airlinefocusing on its ancillary operations, launching 
Eurowings Digital by the end of 2018 "to bundle all the airline's customer-relevant digital activities under one roof", 
the company said.
However, despite Ryanair's trumpeting, there is significant work to be done. Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, 
said this evolution was "a slow-burn thing" and that low-cost carriers "require a change in customer perception or a 
'leap of faith' that some of these higher value services are what they say on the packet, rather than akin to the 
'basic' service that they receive from the standard ticket".
Graphic
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras Aviation. Growth push ; Services such as car hire and theatre ticket 
sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
 
Ryanair wants to be the 'Amazon of travel' - Jose Jordan/AFP/Getty
Load-Date: July 29, 2018
End of Document
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras Aviation. Growth push ; Services such as car hire and theatre ticket 
sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras; Aviation. Growth push ; Services 
such as car hire and theatre ticket sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
Financial Times (London, England)
July 30, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 779 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Selling theatre tickets for musicals Les Miserables and Wicked is not normally associated with low-cost airlines 
such as Ryanair.
But as the oil price has risen and fares stay competitive, these so-called ancillary revenues are becoming essential 
to the airlines' business model.
"2018 may well be a defining moment in aviation as airlines begin to report more revenue from their retailing than 
the cost of the initial air ticket," said John Grant, partner at consultancy Midas Aviation.
Ancillary revenues have soared in the 10 years to 2017. The top 10 global airlines, ranked by total ancillary 
revenue, increased them from $2.1bn to $29.7bn, according to IdeaWorksCompany and CarTrawler.
United Airlines led with $5.8bn, three-fifths of which came from what IWC called "à la carte" sources, such as 
charges for extra bags, and travel retail commissions. The rest was frequentflyer programmes.
Mr Grant cited ultra-low-cost carriers such as the US's Spirit Airlines, where ticket revenue for 2017 was $328m and 
non-ticket revenue was $329m, as an example of how the emphasis on ancillary revenues was accelerating. As 
part of its effort to increase ancillary revenue, Abu Dhabi-based airline Etihad has announced "a dynamic live 
auction" where passengers can bid to upgrade their cabin class.
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras Aviation. Growth push ; Services such as car hire and theatre ticket 
sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
At Ryanair, chief executive Michael O'Leary has long talked about turning his low-cost airline into "the Amazon of 
travel".
Last week, Ryanair was one of several low-cost carriers that trumpeted growth in these revenues in their results, 
with its ancillaries up by a quarter.
Ancillaries made up (EURO)2bn, or 28 per cent, of Ryanair's total revenue in 2017-18 and Mr O'Leary wants them 
to grow to 30 per cent. They will also go some way to offsetting losses from recent strikes.
Earlier this year, Ryanair's chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs, said: "I'd describe Ryanair as a travel retailer with 
a low-cost airline at its centre. When it comes to digital, you have to think like a retailer."
In the airline's vision of travel as retail, a customer has a hierarchy of needs, starting with a flight, movingto car hire, 
booking a hotel room and buying tickets for activities such as tour guides. The final level is one day providing the 
customer with the opportunity to use the airline's one-stop shop to purchase (for example) clothes at Asos, food at 
Tesco and even sun cream fromNivea.
In essence, Mr Jacobs said, it was about "using data to cross- and up-sell the products you already have to the 
customers you already have".
To grow their online retailing businesses, airlines have looked to companies such as CarTrawler, which works with 
more than 100 airlines, including Norwegian, Emirates and Vueling (part of IAG), to offer a ready-made 
marketplace. This puts insurers, car hire groups and other retailers in one place.
Whereas initially airlines signed exclusive contracts with groups such as car hire companies, "the overall return to 
the airline is bigger" if it has more competition among suppliers, said Car-Trawler's chief technology officer Bobby 
Healy.
He added that Ryanair, one of its customers, had experienced 15-30 per cent growth in sales by moving to a 
marketplace model.
While CarTrawler offers the readymade market, other companies such as Datalex provide the technology to enable 
airlines' websites to connect customers and retailers.
Ornagh Hoban, Datalex's chief marketing officer, said any company with an Amazon-like ambition needs to ask: 
"How do I provide products and services with exceptional precision in a fastmoving digital marketplace?" In 
easyJet's third-quarter trading statement in July, it posted ancillary revenue of £328m, up 21 per cent on the 
previous year and more than a fifth of total revenue. Ancillary options include adding bags.
To drive this higher, easyJet said it would boost its hotel booking business and chief Johan Lundgren announced a 
new boss for easyJet Holidays. The airline said: "Currently only 500,000 passengers book a hotel with us out of an 
addressable market of 20m."
Eurowings, part of the Lufthansa Group, is another low-cost airlinefocusing on its ancillary operations, launching 
Eurowings Digital by the end of 2018 "to bundle all the airline's customer-relevant digital activities under one roof", 
the company said.
However, despite Ryanair's trumpeting, there is significant work to be done. Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, 
said this evolution was "a slow-burn thing" and that low-cost carriers "require a change in customer perception or a 
'leap of faith' that some of these higher value services are what they say on the packet, rather than akin to the 
'basic' service that they receive from the standard ticket".
Graphic
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras Aviation. Growth push ; Services such as car hire and theatre ticket 
sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
 
Ryanair wants to be the 'Amazon of travel' - Jose Jordan/AFP/Getty
Load-Date: July 29, 2018
End of Document
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras Aviation. Growth push ; Services such as car hire and theatre ticket 
sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras; Aviation. Growth push ; Services 
such as car hire and theatre ticket sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
Financial Times (London, England)
July 30, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 779 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Selling theatre tickets for musicalsLes Miserables and Wicked is not normally associated with low-cost airlines such 
as Ryanair.
But as the oil price has risen and fares stay competitive, these so-called ancillary revenues are becoming essential 
to the airlines' business model.
"2018 may well be a defining moment in aviation as airlines begin to report more revenue from their retailing than 
the cost of the initial air ticket," said John Grant, partner at consultancy Midas Aviation.
Ancillary revenues have soared in the 10 years to 2017. The top 10 global airlines, ranked by total ancillary 
revenue, increased them from $2.1bn to $29.7bn, according to IdeaWorksCompany and CarTrawler.
United Airlines led with $5.8bn, three-fifths of which came from what IWC called "à la carte" sources, such as 
charges for extra bags, and travel retail commissions. The rest was frequentflyer programmes.
Mr Grant cited ultra-low-cost carriers such as the US's Spirit Airlines, where ticket revenue for 2017 was $328m and 
non-ticket revenue was $329m, as an example of how the emphasis on ancillary revenues was accelerating. As 
part of its effort to increase ancillary revenue, Abu Dhabi-based airline Etihad has announced "a dynamic live 
auction" where passengers can bid to upgrade their cabin class.
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras Aviation. Growth push ; Services such as car hire and theatre ticket 
sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
At Ryanair, chief executive Michael O'Leary has long talked about turning his low-cost airline into "the Amazon of 
travel".
Last week, Ryanair was one of several low-cost carriers that trumpeted growth in these revenues in their results, 
with its ancillaries up by a quarter.
Ancillaries made up (EURO)2bn, or 28 per cent, of Ryanair's total revenue in 2017-18 and Mr O'Leary wants them 
to grow to 30 per cent. They will also go some way to offsetting losses from recent strikes.
Earlier this year, Ryanair's chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs, said: "I'd describe Ryanair as a travel retailer with 
a low-cost airline at its centre. When it comes to digital, you have to think like a retailer."
In the airline's vision of travel as retail, a customer has a hierarchy of needs, starting with a flight, movingto car hire, 
booking a hotel room and buying tickets for activities such as tour guides. The final level is one day providing the 
customer with the opportunity to use the airline's one-stop shop to purchase (for example) clothes at Asos, food at 
Tesco and even sun cream fromNivea.
In essence, Mr Jacobs said, it was about "using data to cross- and up-sell the products you already have to the 
customers you already have".
To grow their online retailing businesses, airlines have looked to companies such as CarTrawler, which works with 
more than 100 airlines, including Norwegian, Emirates and Vueling (part of IAG), to offer a ready-made 
marketplace. This puts insurers, car hire groups and other retailers in one place.
Whereas initially airlines signed exclusive contracts with groups such as car hire companies, "the overall return to 
the airline is bigger" if it has more competition among suppliers, said Car-Trawler's chief technology officer Bobby 
Healy.
He added that Ryanair, one of its customers, had experienced 15-30 per cent growth in sales by moving to a 
marketplace model.
While CarTrawler offers the readymade market, other companies such as Datalex provide the technology to enable 
airlines' websites to connect customers and retailers.
Ornagh Hoban, Datalex's chief marketing officer, said any company with an Amazon-like ambition needs to ask: 
"How do I provide products and services with exceptional precision in a fastmoving digital marketplace?" In 
easyJet's third-quarter trading statement in July, it posted ancillary revenue of £328m, up 21 per cent on the 
previous year and more than a fifth of total revenue. Ancillary options include adding bags.
To drive this higher, easyJet said it would boost its hotel booking business and chief Johan Lundgren announced a 
new boss for easyJet Holidays. The airline said: "Currently only 500,000 passengers book a hotel with us out of an 
addressable market of 20m."
Eurowings, part of the Lufthansa Group, is another low-cost airlinefocusing on its ancillary operations, launching 
Eurowings Digital by the end of 2018 "to bundle all the airline's customer-relevant digital activities under one roof", 
the company said.
However, despite Ryanair's trumpeting, there is significant work to be done. Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, 
said this evolution was "a slow-burn thing" and that low-cost carriers "require a change in customer perception or a 
'leap of faith' that some of these higher value services are what they say on the packet, rather than akin to the 
'basic' service that they receive from the standard ticket".
Graphic
Airline revenues lifted by lucrative extras Aviation. Growth push ; Services such as car hire and theatre ticket 
sales relieve pressure as margins tighten
 
Ryanair wants to be the 'Amazon of travel' - Jose Jordan/AFP/Getty
Load-Date: July 30, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings' German Pilots Vote To Strike
Ryanair Holdings' German Pilots Vote To Strike
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 30, 2018 Monday 1:21 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 110 words
Body
 German pilots working for budget carrier Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) voted to strike  and could walk out from their 
posts within 24 hours of notice, adding to Ryanair's labor woes, according to news briefs published Monday.
The pilots' union, Vereinigung Cockpit, said more than 96% of respondents favored the strike. The group gave 
Ryanair until Aug. 6 to propose labor terms that would kick off negotiations between the parties as the latest round 
of talks failed to yield an agreement.
Reports noted Ryanair was forced to cancel 600 flights last week as it continues to suffer labor actions across its 
operations.
Price: 106.44, Change: -1.56, Percent Change: -1.44
Load-Date: July 31, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Earns Daily Media Impact Score of 0.12
Ryanair (RYAAY) Earns Daily Media Impact Score of 0.12
Watchlist News
July 29, 2018 Sunday 8:07 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 719 words
Body
Jul 29, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Media stories about Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) have trended somewhat positive this week, Accern Sentiment reports. The research group 
scores the sentiment of press coverage by analyzing more than 20 million news and blog sources in real-time. 
Accern ranks coverage of companies on a scale of -1 to 1, with scores nearest to one being the most favorable. 
Ryanair earned a news sentiment score of 0.12 on Accern's scale. Accern also gave media headlines about the 
transportation company an impact score of 47.4062818899683 out of 100, meaning that recent press coverage is 
somewhat unlikely to have an effect on the company's share price in the near future. Here are some of the media 
headlines that may have effected Accern's analysis: [$$] Week in Review, July 28[1] (finance.yahoo.com)Ryanair 
(RYAAY) and easyJet (EJTTF) Head-To-Head Review[2] (americanbankingnews.com)Punch Back, Hard: The 
Ryanair School of Labor Relations[3] (finance.yahoo.com)PRESS DIGEST- Financial Times - July 26[4] 
(finance.yahoo.com)Ryanair's Rivals Are Trying to Poach Its Disgruntled Air Crew[5] (finance.yahoo.com) A number 
of research firms recently issued reports on RYAAY. BidaskClub upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to 
a "strong-buy" rating in a report on Friday, May 25th. Zacks Investment Research[6] upgraded shares of Ryanair 
from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $138.00 target price for the company in a report on Wednesday, April 
11th. BNP Paribas downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on 
Thursday, June 7th. ValuEngine[7] downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report 
on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank restated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on 
Tuesday, May 22nd. Four analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold rating and three 
have issued a buy rating to the company. Ryanair has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average price target of 
$138.00.RYAAY[8] opened at $108.00 on Friday. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a current ratio of 1.12 and 
a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.72. Ryanair has a 52-week low of $101.10 and a 52-week high of $127.61. The company 
has a market cap of $25.00 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 15.32 and a beta of 0.67. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 earnings 
per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping the consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a net margin of 
18.47% and a return on equity of 28.99%. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared 
to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion. research analysts predict that Ryanair will post 6.72 earnings per share 
for the current fiscal year. Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides 
scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It 
also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and 
markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale 
of beverages, food, and merchandise.Featured Article: Book Value Per Share euro;ldquo; BVPS[9] [ 1]: 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Earns Daily Media Impact Score of 0.12
https://finance.yahoo.com/m/67536184-44aa-3698-b227-ed4eeb162702/%5B%24%24%5D-week-in-review%2C-
july-28.html?.tsrc=rss [ 2]:            https://www.americanbankingnews.com/?p=7460806 [ 3]:            
https://finance.yahoo.com/m/54919b65-e980-31ee-bb77-da3902ca9e89/punch-back%2C-hard%3A-the-
ryanair.html?.tsrc=rss [ 4]:            https://finance.yahoo.com/news/press-digest-financial-times-july-
001426316.html?.tsrc=rss [ 5]:            https://finance.yahoo.com/m/1d9b02b2-48c1-3848-bab7-
26d8e65c5daa/ryanair%27s-rivals-are-trying.html?.tsrc=rss 
[ 
6]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
7]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
8]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 9]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/book-value-equity-per-share-bvps/ 
Load-Date: July 29, 2018
End of Document
Reviewing Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) and Ryanair (RYAAY)
Reviewing Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) and Ryanair (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
July 29, 2018 Sunday 10:07 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 739 words
Body
Jul 29, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Deutsche Lufthansa 
(OTCMKTS: DLAKY) and Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) are both large-cap transportation companies, but which is 
the superior investment? We will contrast the two companies based on the strength of their earnings, profitability, 
analyst recommendations, dividends, institutional ownership, valuation and risk. Volatility and Risk Deutsche 
Lufthansa has a beta of 0.62, suggesting that its stock price is 38% less volatile than the S...00. Comparatively, 
Ryanair has a beta of 0.67, suggesting that its stock price is 33% less volatile than the S...00. Analyst RatingsThis 
is a breakdown of recent ratings and price targets for Deutsche Lufthansa and Ryanair, as reported by 
MarketBeat.com. 
Insider ...stitutional Ownership0.2% of Deutsche Lufthansa shares are owned by institutional investors. 
Comparatively, 43.8% of Ryanair shares are owned by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an 
indication that hedge funds, large money managers and endowments believe a stock is poised for long-term 
growth.DividendsDeutsche Lufthansa pays an annual dividend of $0.67 per share and has a dividend yield of 2.6%. 
Ryanair does not pay a dividend. Deutsche Lufthansa pays out 11.8% of its earnings in the form of a dividend. 
Valuation ...rnings This table compares Deutsche Lufthansa and Ryanair's revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and 
valuation. Deutsche Lufthansa has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. Deutsche Lufthansa is trading at a 
lower price-to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. 
ProfitabilityThis table compares Deutsche Lufthansa and Ryanair's net margins, return on equity and return on 
assets. SummaryRyanair beats Deutsche Lufthansa on 9 of the 14 factors compared between the two 
stocks.Deutsche Lufthansa Company ProfileDeutsche Lufthansa AG operates as an aviation company in Germany 
and internationally. It operates through Network Airlines, Point-to-Point Airlines, Logistics, MRO, Catering 
segments. The Network Airlines segment offers passenger services through a route network of 263 destinations in 
86 countries. The Point-to-Point Airlines segment provides passenger services through a route network of 192 
destinations in 62 countries. The Logistics segment offers a range of cargo transport services for various cargos, 
including live animals, valuable cargo, mail, dangerous goods, and temperature-sensitive cargo. This segment 
serves approximately 300 destinations in approximately 100 countries. The MRO segment provides maintenance, 
repair, and overhaul services for civilian commercial aircraft. It serves airlines and aircraft leasing companies, 
operators of VIP jets, and public-sector clients. The Catering segment offers catering, in-flight sales and in-flight 
entertainment, in-flight service equipment, and the associated logistics, as well as consulting services and operating 
airport lounges. The company also provides consulting and IT services for the aviation industry; training courses in 
simulator training, emergency and service drill, and e-learning; business travel management solutions in the area of 
payment and analysis of corporate travel; and aviation and transport insurance products, as well as insurance 
Reviewing Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) and Ryanair (RYAAY)
brokerage, reinsurance, and risk management services. As of December 31, 2017, it had a fleet of 728 aircraft. 
Deutsche Lufthansa AG is headquartered in Cologne, Germany.Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, 
together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled 
services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its 
Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In addition, the company 
sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car parking, attractions, and 
activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 737-800 aircraft and 33 
leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving approximately 200 
airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, Ireland. 
Load-Date: July 29, 2018
End of Document
AlphaValue Lowers Ryanair ( RYA ) to Reduce
AlphaValue Lowers Ryanair (RYA) to Reduce
Transcript Daily
July 29, 2018 Sunday 2:10 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 236 words
Body
Jul 
29, 
2018( 
Transcript 
Daily: 
https://transcriptdaily.com 
Delivered 
by 
Newstex) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.pngAlphaValue lowered shares of Ryanair (LON:RYA) 
to a reduce rating in a report released on Wednesday.Separately, Liberum Capital reduced their price target on 
shares of Ryanair from GBX 21 ($0.28) to GBX 18.50 ($0.24) and set a buy rating on the stock in a research report 
on Wednesday, May 23rd.Shares of Ryanair stock[1] traded up GBX 30.50 ($0.40) during trading hours on 
Wednesday, reaching GBX 1,441.50 ($19.08). The company's stock had a trading volume of 2,128,980 shares, 
compared to its average volume of 2,010,000. Ryanair has a one year low of GBX 13.99 ($0.19) and a one year 
high of GBX 19.78 ($0.26). About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-
passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers 
various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets 
accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food, and merchandise.Further Reading: Relative Strength Index[2] [ 1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/LON/RYA/ [ 2]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/momentum-
indicator-relative-strength-index/ 
Load-Date: July 29, 2018
End of Document
First Mercantile Trust Co. Has $701,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
First Mercantile Trust Co. Has $701,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
Watchlist News
July 28, 2018 Saturday 10:12 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 673 words
Body
Jul 28, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  First Mercantile Trust Co. 
increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 28.8% during the 2nd quarter, 
according to its most recent disclosure with the SEC. The institutional investor owned 6,135 shares of the 
transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 1,370 shares during the period. 
First Mercantile Trust Co.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $701,000 as of its most recent filing with the SEC. Other 
institutional investors and hedge funds also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the company. Elkfork 
Partners LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair in the fourth quarter valued at approximately $166,000. Glenmede 
Trust Co. NA raised its stake in Ryanair by 2,506.9% in the fourth quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $195,000 after buying an additional 1,805 shares during the 
period. Private Advisor Group LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair in the first quarter valued at approximately 
$248,000. Perigon Wealth Management LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair in the first quarter valued at 
approximately $254,000. Finally, Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. raised its stake in Ryanair by 35.5% 
in the fourth quarter. Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. now owns 2,754 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $287,000 after buying an additional 721 shares during the period. Institutional investors 
and hedge funds own 43.76% of the company's stock. Shares of NASDAQ:RYAAY[1] opened at $108.00 on Friday. 
The company has a market cap of $25.00 billion, a P/E ratio of 15.32 and a beta of 0.67. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 
1 year low of $101.10 and a 1 year high of $127.61. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.72, a quick ratio of 
1.23 and a current ratio of 1.12. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, 
May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping the Zacks' 
consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to the 
consensus estimate of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a return on equity of 28.99% and a net margin of 18.47%. analysts 
anticipate that Ryanair Holdings plc will post 6.72 EPS for the current fiscal year. Several research firms have 
issued reports on RYAAY. BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a 
research note on Thursday, June 7th. Deutsche Bank lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a 
research note on Thursday, June 7th. Zacks Investment Research[2] lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "sell" 
rating in a research note on Friday, April 20th. Exane BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, BidaskClub upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating 
to a "buy" rating in a research note on Monday, June 25th. Four equities research analysts have rated the stock 
with a sell rating, five have issued a hold rating and three have issued a buy rating to the company. Ryanair 
currently has an average rating of "Hold" and an average price target of $138.00.About RyanairRyanair Holdings 
First Mercantile Trust Co. Has $701,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled 
services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its 
Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.Recommended Story: 
Understanding Price to Earnings Ratio (PE)[3] [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/price-to-earnings-ratio-pe/ 
Load-Date: July 28, 2018
End of Document
Amazon 's quarterly net income hits a record $2.5bn Technology
Amazon's quarterly net income hits a record $2.5bn; Technology
Financial Times (London, England)
July 28, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 11
Length: 339 words
Byline: SHANNON BOND
Body
It took Amazon 20 years as a public company to reach $1bn in quarterly profit. It took six months to double that.
On Thursday, the Seattle company reported a record $2.5bn in second-quarter net income, up from $197m a year 
ago.
Earnings of $5.07 a share blew past Wall Street's estimate of $2.51. Its top line fell short, however: 39 per cent 
sales growth to $52.9bn undershot analysts' consensus estimate by $500m. Amazon was famously unprofitable for 
years as it ploughed fast-growing revenue into investments from warehouses to electronic devices to servers for its 
network of data centres.
That turned it into the dominant force in online shopping - capturing one in every two dollars spent on ecommerce in 
the US - and cloud computing, where its customers include Netflix, Ryanair and the CIA.
This time, the picture flipped for investors accustomed to meagre margins and outsized sales growth.
Amazon's second-quarter operating margin of 5.6 per cent eclipsed analysts' forecasts of 3.2 per cent and was the 
highest in more than a decade.
Shareholders cheered the news. After sending the stock down 3 per cent as part of Thursday's Facebook-fuelled 
tech pullback, investors reversed those losses in after-hours trading.
Amazon 's quarterly net income hits a record $2.5bn Technology
Amazon expects a similar pattern for the third quarter. It forecast operating income between $1.4bn and $2.4bn on 
net sales of $54bn to $57.5bn, compared with Wall Street's estimate of $1.3bn and $58bn, respectively.
The group credited its strengthening profitability to diversification into highmargin businesses, as well as efficiencies 
from recent investments and a more restrained rate of hiring and capital expenditures.
The cloud division, Amazon Web Services, has been a boon. Its operating margin - 27 per cent in the quarter - has 
provided a cushion to the low-margin retail business that still makes up most of Amazon's revenue.
See The Top Line and Markets Amazon was unprofitable for years as it sank revenue into investments from 
warehouses to electronic devices to servers for its network of data centres
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
Amazon 's quarterly net income hits a record $2.5bn Technology
Amazon's quarterly net income hits a record $2.5bn; Technology
Financial Times (London, England)
July 28, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 313 words
Byline: SHANNON BOND
Body
It took Amazon 20 years as a public company to reach $1bn in quarterly profit. It took six months to double that.
On Thursday, the Seattle company reported a record $2.5bn in second-quarter net income, up from $197m a year 
ago.
Earnings of $5.07 a share blew past Wall Street's estimate of $2.51. Its top line fell short, however: 39 per cent 
sales growth to $52.9bn undershot analysts' consensus estimate by $500m. Amazon was famously unprofitable for 
years as it ploughed fast-growing revenue into investments from warehouses to electronic devices to servers for its 
network of data centres.
That turned it into the dominant force in online shopping - capturing one in every two dollars spent on ecommerce in 
the US - and cloud computing, where its customers include Netflix, Ryanair and the CIA.
This time, the picture flipped for investors accustomed to meagre margins and outsized sales growth.
Amazon's second-quarter operating margin of 5.6 per cent eclipsed analysts' forecasts of 3.2 per cent and was the 
highest in more than a decade.
Shareholders cheered the news. After sending the stock down 3 per cent as part of Thursday's Facebook-fuelled 
tech pullback, investors reversed those losses in after-hours trading.
Amazon 's quarterly net income hits a record $2.5bn Technology
Amazon expects a similar pattern for the third quarter. It forecast operating income between $1.4bn and $2.4bn on 
net sales of $54bn to $57.5bn, compared with Wall Street's estimate of $1.3bn and $58bn, respectively.
The group credited its strengthening profitability to diversification into highmargin businesses, as well as efficiencies 
from recent investments and a more restrained rate of hiring and capital expenditures.
The cloud division, Amazon Web Services, has been a boon. Its operating margin - 27 per cent in the quarter - has 
provided a cushion to the low-margin retail business that still makes up most of Amazon's revenue.
See The Top Line and Markets
Graphic
 
Amazon was unprofitable for years as it sank revenue into investments from warehouses to electronic devices to 
servers for its network of data centres
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
Amazon's quarterly net income hits a record $2.5bn; Technology
Amazon's quarterly net income hits a record $2.5bn; Technology
Financial Times (London, England)
July 28, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 313 words
Byline: SHANNON BOND
Body
It took Amazon 20 years as a public company to reach $1bn in quarterly profit. It took six months to double that.
On Thursday, the Seattle company reported a record $2.5bn in second-quarter net income, up from $197m a year 
ago.
Earnings of $5.07 a share blew past Wall Street's estimate of $2.51. Its top line fell short, however: 39 per cent 
sales growth to $52.9bn undershot analysts' consensus estimate by $500m. Amazon was famously unprofitable for 
years as it ploughed fast-growing revenue into investments from warehouses to electronic devices to servers for its 
network of data centres.
That turned it into the dominant force in online shopping - capturing one in every two dollars spent on ecommerce in 
the US - and cloud computing, where its customers include Netflix, Ryanair and the CIA.
This time, the picture flipped for investors accustomed to meagre margins and outsized sales growth.
Amazon's second-quarter operating margin of 5.6 per cent eclipsed analysts' forecasts of 3.2 per cent and was the 
highest in more than a decade.
Shareholders cheered the news. After sending the stock down 3 per cent as part of Thursday's Facebook-fuelled 
tech pullback, investors reversed those losses in after-hours trading.
Amazon's quarterly net income hits a record $2.5bn; Technology
Amazon expects a similar pattern for the third quarter. It forecast operating income between $1.4bn and $2.4bn on 
net sales of $54bn to $57.5bn, compared with Wall Street's estimate of $1.3bn and $58bn, respectively.
The group credited its strengthening profitability to diversification into highmargin businesses, as well as efficiencies 
from recent investments and a more restrained rate of hiring and capital expenditures.
The cloud division, Amazon Web Services, has been a boon. Its operating margin - 27 per cent in the quarter - has 
provided a cushion to the low-margin retail business that still makes up most of Amazon's revenue.
See The Top Line and Markets
Graphic
 
Amazon was unprofitable for years as it sank revenue into investments from warehouses to electronic devices to 
servers for its network of data centres
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
Amazon 's quarterly net income hits a record $2.5bn Technology
Amazon's quarterly net income hits a record $2.5bn; Technology
Financial Times (London, England)
July 28, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 317 words
Byline: SHANNON BOND
Body
SHANNON BOND - NEW YORK It took Amazon 20 years as a public company to reach $1bn in quarterly profit. It 
took six months to double that.
On Thursday, the Seattle company reported a record $2.5bn in second-quarter net income, up from $197m a year 
ago.
Earnings of $5.07 a share blew past Wall Street's estimate of $2.51. Its top line fell short, however: 39 per cent 
sales growth to $52.9bn undershot analysts' consensus estimate by $500m. Amazon was famously unprofitable for 
years as it ploughed fast-growing revenue into investments from warehouses to electronic devices to servers for its 
network of data centres.
That turned it into the dominant force in online shopping - capturing one in every two dollars spent on ecommerce in 
the US - and cloud computing, where its customers include Netflix, Ryanair and the CIA.
This time, the picture flipped for investors accustomed to meagre margins and outsized sales growth.
Amazon's second-quarter operating margin of 5.6 per cent eclipsed analysts' forecasts of 3.2 per cent and was the 
highest in more than a decade.
Shareholders cheered the news. After sending the stock down 3 per cent as part of Thursday's Facebook-fuelled 
tech pullback, investors reversed those losses in after-hours trading.
Amazon 's quarterly net income hits a record $2.5bn Technology
Amazon expects a similar pattern for the third quarter. It forecast operating income between $1.4bn and $2.4bn on 
net sales of $54bn to $57.5bn, compared with Wall Street's estimate of $1.3bn and $58bn, respectively.
The group credited its strengthening profitability to diversification into highmargin businesses, as well as efficiencies 
from recent investments and a more restrained rate of hiring and capital expenditures.
The cloud division, Amazon Web Services, has been a boon. Its operating margin - 27 per cent in the quarter - has 
provided a cushion to the low-margin retail business that still makes up most of Amazon's revenue.
See The Top Line and Markets
Graphic
 
Amazon was unprofitable for years as it sank revenue into investments from warehouses to electronic devices to 
servers for its network of data centres
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
London airports, trains disrupted by extreme weather
London airports, trains disrupted by extreme weather
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 28, 2018 Saturday 1:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 146 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
LONDON (AP) - Tourists and Britons hoping to go on vacation are enduring another day of travel trouble in Britain 
after severe weather led to flight cancellations and delays on cross-Channel trains.
A week of extreme heat gave way to thunderstorms Friday, touching off travel delays on Saturday.
Budget airline Ryanair says Friday night's thunderstorms, along with air traffic control staff shortages, led to 14 
cancelled flights at Stansted Airport. Other London-area airports - Luton, Gatwick and Heathrow - also warned of 
delays.
Nats, the UK air traffic control service, says the unpredictable nature of the storms means aircraft are not able to fly 
their usual routes. The service says the thunderstorms "effectively block large swathes of airspace because aircraft 
cannot fly through them."
Eurotunnel passengers faced a third day of disruption on the cross-Channel service.
Load-Date: July 29, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair boss blames strikes for sharp drop in profit Airlines
Ryanair boss blames strikes for sharp drop in profit; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 28, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 11
Length: 266 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair's week started badly, with a 22 per cent fall in pre-tax profit in its first quarter. And it got worse.
Announcing the results, chief executive Michael O'Leary blamed strikes by his staff and Europe's air traffic 
controllers for the drop, and warned of cuts to the airline's winter schedule if strikes continued.
Ryanair's Irish pilots went on strike on Wednesday and cabin crews in Spain, Portugal and Belgium on Thursday 
and yesterday. Ryanair said there was "very minimal disruption".
The employees were striking over pay and conditions, and wanted contracts governed by local, not Irish, law. The 
airline, also on Wednesday, followed through on its warning about winter cuts as it announced it intended to move 
six of its 30 aircraft from Ireland to Poland, potentially making redundant or reassigning more than 100 Dublin-
based pilots and 200 cabin crew.
The pilots' union reacted by scheduling another strike.
Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, said: "Antagonising the workforce in the context of labour disputes is a very 
risky strategy, and will likely lead to greater union membership and higher strike participation, effectively increasing 
a union's bargaining power."
Ryanair - with Wizz Air, easyJet and IAG, the BA owner - filed a complaint with the European Commission, saying 
France's failure to stop air traffic controller strikes was a breach of freedom of movement.
Ryanair boss blames strikes for sharp drop in profit Airlines
Ryanair alone had to cancel 2,500 flights in the first quarter.
The plan to shift six aircraft from Ireland to Poland might mean redundancy or reassignment for more than 100 
Dublin-based pilots and 200 cabin crew
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair boss blames strikes for sharp drop in profit Airlines
Ryanair boss blames strikes for sharp drop in profit; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 28, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 242 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair's week started badly, with a 22 per cent fall in pre-tax profit in its first quarter. And it got worse.
Announcing the results, chief executive Michael O'Leary blamed strikes by his staff and Europe's air traffic 
controllers for the drop, and warned of cuts to the airline's winter schedule if strikes continued.
Ryanair's Irish pilots went on strike on Wednesday and cabin crews in Spain, Portugal and Belgium on Thursday 
and yesterday. Ryanair said there was "very minimal disruption".
The employees were striking over pay and conditions, and wanted contracts governed by local, not Irish, law. The 
airline, also on Wednesday, followed through on its warning about winter cuts as it announced it intended to move 
six of its 30 aircraft from Ireland to Poland, potentially making redundant or reassigning more than 100 Dublin-
based pilots and 200 cabin crew.
The pilots' union reacted by scheduling another strike.
Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, said: "Antagonising the workforce in the context of labour disputes is a very 
risky strategy, and will likely lead to greater union membership and higher strike participation, effectively increasing 
a union's bargaining power."
Ryanair - with Wizz Air, easyJet and IAG, the BA owner - filed a complaint with the European Commission, saying 
France's failure to stop air traffic controller strikes was a breach of freedom of movement.
Ryanair boss blames strikes for sharp drop in profit Airlines
Ryanair alone had to cancel 2,500 flights in the first quarter.
Graphic
 
The plan to shift six aircraft from Ireland to Poland might mean redundancy or reassignment for more than 100 
Dublin-based pilots and 200 cabin crew
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair boss blames strikes for sharp drop in profit Airlines
Ryanair boss blames strikes for sharp drop in profit; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 28, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 248 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
JOSH SPERO - TRANSPORT CORRESPONDENT Ryanair's week started badly, with a 22 per cent fall in pre-tax 
profit in its first quarter. And it got worse.
Announcing the results, chief executive Michael O'Leary blamed strikes by his staff and Europe's air traffic 
controllers for the drop, and warned of cuts to the airline's winter schedule if strikes continued.
Ryanair's Irish pilots went on strike on Wednesday and cabin crews in Spain, Portugal and Belgium on Thursday 
and yesterday. Ryanair said there was "very minimal disruption".
The employees were striking over pay and conditions, and wanted contracts governed by local, not Irish, law. The 
airline, also on Wednesday, followed through on its warning about winter cuts as it announced it intended to move 
six of its 30 aircraft from Ireland to Poland, potentially making redundant or reassigning more than 100 Dublin-
based pilots and 200 cabin crew.
The pilots' union reacted by scheduling another strike.
Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, said: "Antagonising the workforce in the context of labour disputes is a very 
risky strategy, and will likely lead to greater union membership and higher strike participation, effectively increasing 
a union's bargaining power."
Ryanair boss blames strikes for sharp drop in profit Airlines
Ryanair - with Wizz Air, easyJet and IAG, the BA owner - filed a complaint with the European Commission, saying 
France's failure to stop air traffic controller strikes was a breach of freedom of movement.
Ryanair alone had to cancel 2,500 flights in the first quarter.
Graphic
 
The plan to shift six aircraft from Ireland to Poland might mean redundancy or reassignment for more than 100 
Dublin-based pilots and 200 cabin crew
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair boss blames strikes for sharp drop in profit Airlines
Ryanair boss blames strikes for sharp drop in profit; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 28, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 242 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair's week started badly, with a 22 per cent fall in pre-tax profit in its first quarter. And it got worse.
Announcing the results, chief executive Michael O'Leary blamed strikes by his staff and Europe's air traffic 
controllers for the drop, and warned of cuts to the airline's winter schedule if strikes continued.
Ryanair's Irish pilots went on strike on Wednesday and cabin crews in Spain, Portugal and Belgium on Thursday 
and yesterday. Ryanair said there was "very minimal disruption".
The employees were striking over pay and conditions, and wanted contracts governed by local, not Irish, law. The 
airline, also on Wednesday, followed through on its warning about winter cuts as it announced it intended to move 
six of its 30 aircraft from Ireland to Poland, potentially making redundant or reassigning more than 100 Dublin-
based pilots and 200 cabin crew.
The pilots' union reacted by scheduling another strike.
Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, said: "Antagonising the workforce in the context of labour disputes is a very 
risky strategy, and will likely lead to greater union membership and higher strike participation, effectively increasing 
a union's bargaining power."
Ryanair - with Wizz Air, easyJet and IAG, the BA owner - filed a complaint with the European Commission, saying 
France's failure to stop air traffic controller strikes was a breach of freedom of movement.
Ryanair boss blames strikes for sharp drop in profit Airlines
Ryanair alone had to cancel 2,500 flights in the first quarter.
Graphic
 
The plan to shift six aircraft from Ireland to Poland might mean redundancy or reassignment for more than 100 
Dublin-based pilots and 200 cabin crew
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Friday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Friday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 27, 2018 Friday 11:02 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 219 words
Body
 American Depositary Receipts of European stocks were trading 0.67% higher at 140.48 on the Bank of New York 
Mellon Europe ADR Index on Friday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by telecommunications provider Telecom Italia (TI), and geophysical 
equipment company CGG (CGG), which rose 5.6% and 3.5% respectively. They were followed by 
telecommunications operator Orange (ORAN), and bank Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA), which climbed 
2.8% and 2.1%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by pharmaceutical company Oasmia Pharmaceutical (OASM), which 
plunged 31.2%, followed by oil and gas company Eni (E), which lost 1.4%. Information and analytics provider RELX 
NV (RENX), and 3D printer maker Materialise (MTLS) were off 1.4% and 1.1% respectively. 
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by telecommunications provider BT Group (BT), and publisher Pearson 
(PSO), which rose 5.8% and 4.7% respectively. They were followed by mining company BHP Billiton (BBL), and 
airline operator Ryanair (RYAAY), which was up 3.3% and 2.2%.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by biopharmaceutical companies Verona Pharma (VRNA), followed by 
Adaptimmune Therapeutics (ADAP), and Amarin (AMRN), which dropped 2.2%, 1.9%, and 1.8% respectively. 
Price: 15.74, Change: +0.93, Percent Change: +6.28
Load-Date: July 28, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) and easyJet ( EJTTF ) Head-To-Head Review
Ryanair (RYAAY) and easyJet (EJTTF) Head-To-Head Review
American Banking and Market News
July 27, 2018 Friday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 492 words
Body
easyJet (OTCMKTS: EJTTF) and Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) are both transportation companies, but which is the 
better investment? We will contrast the two businesses based on the strength of their dividends, earnings, risk, 
institutional ownership, profitability, analyst recommendations and valuation.  
Insider and Institutional Ownership
43.8% of Ryanair shares are held by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that 
hedge funds, large money managers and endowments believe a company will outperform the market over the long 
term. 
Profitability
This table compares easyJet and Ryanair's net margins, return on equity and return on assets.
Net Margins
Return on Equity
Return on Assets
easyJet
N/A
N/A
N/A
Ryanair
18.47%
28.99%
11.26%
Earnings and Valuation This table compares easyJet and Ryanair's top-line revenue, earnings per share and 
valuation.
Gross 
Revenue
Price/Sales 
Ratio
Net Income
Earnings Per 
Share
Price/Earnings Ratio
easyJet
$6.40 billion
1.36
$386.55 million
N/A
N/A
Ryanair
$8.37 billion
3.02
$1.70 billion
$7.05
15.32
Ryanair has higher revenue and earnings than easyJet. 
Volatility and Risk easyJet has a beta of 1.39, suggesting that its stock price is 39% more volatile than the S&P 
500. Comparatively, Ryanair has a beta of 0.67, suggesting that its stock price is 33% less volatile than the S&P 
500. 
Analyst Ratings
This is a summary of current ratings and price targets for easyJet and Ryanair, as provided by MarketBeat. 
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) and easyJet ( EJTTF ) Head-To-Head Review
Sell Ratings
Hold Ratings
Buy Ratings
Strong Buy Ratings
Rating Score
easyJet
0
1
1
0
2.50
Ryanair
1
5
2
0
2.13
Summary
Ryanair beats easyJet on 8 of the 10 factors compared between the two stocks. 
About easyJet
easyJet logo easyJet plc, together with its subsidiaries, operates as an airline carrier primarily in Europe. As of 
September 30, 2017, it operated 862 routes and a fleet of 279 aircraft. The company also engages in the trading 
and leasing of aircrafts; and the provision of graphic design services. easyJet plc was founded in 1995 and is based 
in Luton, the United Kingdom. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair logo Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such 
as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel 
insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In 
addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car 
parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 
737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving 
approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, 
Ireland.    
Load-Date: July 28, 2018
End of Document
Air France-KLM (AFLYY) vs. Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Head to Head Comparison
Air France-KLM (AFLYY) vs. Ryanair (RYAAY) Head to Head Comparison
American Banking and Market News
July 27, 2018 Friday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 591 words
Body
Air France-KLM (OTCMKTS: AFLYY) and Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) are both transportation companies, but 
which is the better stock? We will compare the two businesses based on the strength of their analyst 
recommendations, profitability, earnings, dividends, valuation, risk and institutional ownership.  
Profitability
This table compares Air France-KLM and Ryanair's net margins, return on equity and return on assets.
Net Margins
Return on Equity
Return on Assets
Air France-KLM
-1.42%
32.01%
3.14%
Ryanair
18.47%
28.99%
11.26%
Earnings & Valuation This table compares Air France-KLM and Ryanair's gross revenue, earnings per share and 
valuation.
Gross 
Revenue
Price/Sales 
Ratio
Net Income
Earnings Per 
Share
Price/Earnings 
Ratio
Air France-
KLM
$30.37 billion
0.12
-$309.70 
million
$2.32
3.70
Ryanair
$8.37 billion
3.02
$1.70 billion
$7.05
15.32
Ryanair has lower revenue, but higher earnings than Air France-KLM. Air France-KLM is trading at a lower price-to-
earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. 
Risk & Volatility Air France-KLM has a beta of 0.62, indicating that its share price is 38% less volatile than the 
S&P 500. Comparatively, Ryanair has a beta of 0.67, indicating that its share price is 33% less volatile than the 
S&P 500. 
Institutional and Insider Ownership
4.7% of Air France-KLM shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 43.8% of Ryanair shares are held 
by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that large money managers, hedge funds 
and endowments believe a company is poised for long-term growth. 
Analyst Recommendations
Air France-KLM (AFLYY) vs. Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Head to Head Comparison
This is a breakdown of recent ratings and target prices for Air France-KLM and Ryanair, as reported by MarketBeat. 
Sell Ratings
Hold Ratings
Buy Ratings
Strong Buy Ratings
Rating Score
Air France-
KLM
1
4
0
0
1.80
Ryanair
1
5
2
0
2.13
Summary
Ryanair beats Air France-KLM on 10 of the 12 factors compared between the two stocks. 
About Air France-KLM
Air France-KLM logo Air France-KLM SA, together with its subsidiaries, provides passenger transportation services 
on scheduled flights. The company operates through Network, Maintenance, Transavia, and Other segments. It 
also offers cargo transportation and aeronautics maintenance services; and other air-transport-related services. The 
company operates in France, Benelux, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Gulf, India, the Asia-Pacific, North America, 
Caribbean, West Indies, French Guyana, Indian Ocean, and South America. As of December 31, 2017, it operated 
fleet of 545 aircraft. Air France-KLM SA was founded in 1919 and is headquartered in Paris, France. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair logo Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such 
as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel 
insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In 
addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car 
parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 
737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving 
approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, 
Ireland.    
Load-Date: July 28, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair in tussle over £29m payout bill claims
Ryanair in tussle over £29m payout bill claims
City A.M.
July 27, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 225 words
Byline: ALEXANDRA ROGERS
Body
RYANAIR has insisted it is not liable to foot an estimated (EURO)33m (£29m) compensation bill to passengers 
disrupted by the ongoing strikes by pilots and cabin crew.
The low-cost airline announced it would not be dishing out compensation to the 50,000 passengers affected by staff 
strikes yesterday and on Wednesday in Portugal, Spain and Belgium.
The industrial action over pay and working conditions caused the cancellation of 600 flights over the two days.
Ryanair said those affected have been offered a full refund.
Air Help, a start-up that encourages passengers to claim compensation, estimates that 120,000 passengers could 
be owed around £29m in total, based on eight days of strikes which kicked off at the same time as the summer 
holidays.
Ryanair strongly disputes the £29m figure. "Ryanair fully complies with all EU261 legislation, however as these 
flight cancellations were caused by extraordinary circumstances, no compensation is due," it said.
"Under EU261 legislation, no compensation is payable when the union is acting unreasonably and totally beyond 
the airline's control."
Rory Boland at Which? said passengers should make their claims.
"The arbitration provider Ryanair has chosen to work with has already said it will uphold a previous European ruling 
that crew strikes aren't usually considered 'extraordinary circumstances'," he said.
Ryanair in tussle over £29m payout bill claims
Graphic
 
Ryanair disputed the £29m figure
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
Easyjet seeks more than 1,000 new cabin crew to join its ranks
Easyjet seeks more than 1,000 new cabin crew to join its ranks
City A.M.
July 27, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 74 words
Byline: ALEXANDRA ROGERS
Body
BUDGET airline Easyjet has announced it is on the hunt for more than 1,000 cabin crew members, just days after 
rival Ryanair announced it was cutting hundreds of jobs in Ireland.
Easyjet said half of the positions, which are permanent and fixed term, would be based in the UK and offer a 
number of rewards including training opportunities.
On Wednesday, Ryanair announced plans to reduce its Dublin fleet by 20 per cent, putting 300 jobs at risk.
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair refuses to compensate passengers for 'unreasonable' strikes
Ryanair refuses to compensate passengers for 'unreasonable' strikes
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 26, 2018 Thursday 1:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 271 words
Byline: Bill Smith in London
Dateline: London (dpa) - 
Body
Budget airline Ryanair on Thursday refused to compensate passengers whose flights were cancelled due to strikes 
by Ryanair staff this week, because it deems the action "unreasonable."
The airline cancelled 600 flights scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday due to a strike by cabin crew in Belgium, 
Spain and Portugal, affecting some 50,000 passengers.
Under EU legislation for flight cancellations, an airline should pay 250 euros (293 dollars) to each passenger, 
subject to conditions.
"Ryanair fully complies with all EU ... legislation. However, as these flight cancellations were caused by 
extraordinary circumstances, no compensation is due," the airline said.
It argued that no compensation is payable "when the union is acting unreasonably and totally beyond the airline's 
control."
Ryanair faces another one-day strike next week by Irish-based pilots, as a European pilots' union on Thursday 
accused it of attempted "union busting" by warning that it could cut up to 300 staff in Ireland this winter.
The airline said it issued notices of possible redundancy to 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew after its board approved a 
plan to cut its Dublin-based fleet from 30 to 24 aircraft over the winter.
"This unfortunate and entirely avoidable decision by Ryanair can be interpreted at best as a very immature 
response to legitimate strike action," said Dirk Polloczek, president of the European Cockpit Association.
"At worst as a bold attempt at union busting and an effort to put maximum pressure on pilots to stop industrial 
action," Polloczek added.
Ryanair refuses to compensate passengers for 'unreasonable' strikes
Editorial contactsEditing by: Bill Heaney, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair refuses to compensate passengers for 'unreasonable' strikes
Ryanair refuses to compensate passengers for 'unreasonable' strikes
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 26, 2018 Thursday 1:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 267 words
Body
       LONDON (dpa-AFX) - Budget airline Ryanair on Thursday refused to compensate passengers whose flights 
were cancelled due to strikes by Ryanair staff this week, because it deems the action 'unreasonable.'  The airline 
cancelled 600 flights scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday due to a strike by cabin crew in Belgium, Spain and 
Portugal, affecting some 50,000 passengers. 
 Under EU legislation for flight cancellations, an airline should pay 250 euros (293 dollars) to each passenger, 
subject to conditions.  'Ryanair fully complies with all EU ... legislation. However, as these flight cancellations were 
caused by extraordinary circumstances, no compensation is due,' the airline said.  It argued that no compensation 
is payable 'when the union is acting unreasonably and totally beyond the airline's control.'  Ryanair faces another 
one-day strike next week by Irish-based pilots, as a European pilots' union on Thursday accused it of attempted 
'union busting' by warning that it could cut up to 300 staff in Ireland this winter.  The airline said it issued notices of 
possible redundancy to 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew after its board approved a plan to cut its Dublin-based fleet 
from 30 to 24 aircraft over the winter.  'This unfortunate and entirely avoidable decision by Ryanair can be 
interpreted at best as a very immature response to legitimate strike action,' said Dirk Polloczek, president of the 
European Cockpit Association.  'At worst as a bold attempt at union busting and an effort to put maximum pressure 
on pilots to stop industrial action,' Polloczek added.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: July 26, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair refuses to compensate passengers for 'unreasonable' strikes
Ryanair refuses to compensate passengers for 'unreasonable' strikes
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 26, 2018 Thursday 5:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 423 words
Byline: Bill Smith in London
Dateline: London (dpa) - 
Body
Budget airline Ryanair on Thursday refused to compensate passengers whose flights were cancelled due to strikes 
by Ryanair staff this week because it deems the action "unreasonable."
The airline cancelled 600 flights scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday due to a strike by cabin crew in Belgium, 
Spain and Portugal, affecting some 50,000 passengers.
Under EU legislation for flight cancellations, an airline should pay 250 euros (293 dollars) to each passenger, 
unless they are informed at least two weeks in advance or are offered alternative flights arriving at their destination 
the same day.
An airline can withhold compensation if it can show that the cancellation is "caused by extraordinary circumstances 
which could not have been avoided even if all reasonable measures had been taken," according to the rules.
"Ryanair fully complies with all EU ... legislation. However, as these flight cancellations were caused by 
extraordinary circumstances, no compensation is due," the airline said.
It argued that no compensation is payable "when the union is acting unreasonably and totally beyond the airline's 
control."
Ryanair faces another one-day strike next week by Irish-based pilots, as a European pilots' union on Thursday 
accused it of attempted "union busting" by warning that it could cut up to 300 staff in Ireland this winter.
On Thursday, the airline cancelled 20 of its 300 scheduled flights to and from Ireland on August 3, saying the Irish 
pilots' union had rejected its offer to hold talks.
Ryanair refuses to compensate passengers for 'unreasonable' strikes
The airline said it issued notices of possible redundancy to 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew after its board approved a 
plan to cut its Dublin-based fleet from 30 to 24 aircraft over the winter.
"This unfortunate and entirely avoidable decision by Ryanair can be interpreted at best as a very immature 
response to legitimate strike action," said Dirk Polloczek, president of the European Cockpit Association (ECA).
"At worst as a bold attempt at union busting and an effort to put maximum pressure on pilots to stop industrial 
action," Polloczek added.
Philip von Schoeppenthau, the ECA's secretary general, said the airline's "provocation and unnecessary behaviour 
will only encourage even more pilots to leave Ryanair for competitor airlines."
"The myth of union-friendly Ryanair is falling apart," von Schoeppenthau said, accusing the airline of "reverting to its 
previous anti-union tactics, while claiming publicly to constructively engage with its unions."
Editorial contactsEditing by: Bill Heaney, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair refuses to compensate passengers for 'unreasonable' strikes
Ryanair refuses to compensate passengers for 'unreasonable' strikes
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 26, 2018 Thursday 5:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 424 words
Body
       By Bill Smith, dpa   LONDON (dpa-AFX) - Budget airline Ryanair on Thursday refused to compensate 
passengers whose flights were cancelled due to strikes by Ryanair staff this week because it deems the action 
'unreasonable.'  The airline cancelled 600 flights scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday due to a strike by cabin 
crew in Belgium, Spain and Portugal, affecting some 50,000 passengers.  Under EU legislation for flight 
cancellations, an airline should pay 250 euros (293 dollars) to each passenger, unless they are informed at least 
two weeks in advance or are offered alternative flights arriving at their destination the same day. 
 An airline can withhold compensation if it can show that the cancellation is 'caused by extraordinary circumstances 
which could not have been avoided even if all reasonable measures had been taken,' according to the rules.  
'Ryanair fully complies with all EU ... legislation. However, as these flight cancellations were caused by 
extraordinary circumstances, no compensation is due,' the airline said.  It argued that no compensation is payable 
'when the union is acting unreasonably and totally beyond the airline's control.'  Ryanair faces another one-day 
strike next week by Irish-based pilots, as a European pilots' union on Thursday accused it of attempted 'union 
busting' by warning that it could cut up to 300 staff in Ireland this winter.  On Thursday, the airline cancelled 20 of its 
300 scheduled flights to and from Ireland on August 3, saying the Irish pilots' union had rejected its offer to hold 
talks.  The airline said it issued notices of possible redundancy to 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew after its board 
approved a plan to cut its Dublin-based fleet from 30 to 24 aircraft over the winter.  'This unfortunate and entirely 
avoidable decision by Ryanair can be interpreted at best as a very immature response to legitimate strike action,' 
said Dirk Polloczek, president of the European Cockpit Association (ECA).  'At worst as a bold attempt at union 
busting and an effort to put maximum pressure on pilots to stop industrial action,' Polloczek added.  Philip von 
Schoeppenthau, the ECA's secretary general, said the airline's 'provocation and unnecessary behaviour will only 
encourage even more pilots to leave Ryanair for competitor airlines.'  'The myth of union-friendly Ryanair is falling 
apart,' von Schoeppenthau said, accusing the airline of 'reverting to its previous anti-union tactics, while claiming 
publicly to constructively engage with its unions.'   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: July 26, 2018
Ryanair refuses to compensate passengers for 'unreasonable' strikes
End of Document
Ryanair responds to Irish strikes by diverting 20% of Dublin fleet to Poland
Ryanair responds to Irish strikes by diverting 20% of Dublin fleet to Poland
Financial Times (London, England)
July 26, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 334 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair, the low-cost airline founded in Ireland in 1985, has announced it will cut its Dublin-based fleet by 20 per 
cent this winter, following through on a threat intended to stop its Irish pilots from striking.
More than 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew could be affected by the move, the airline said yesterday.
At least six of Ryanair's 30 aircraft in Dublin will be sent to its Polish charter airline because of "a downturn in 
forward bookings and airfares in Ireland partly as a result of recent rolling strikes by Irish pilots", it said, adding that 
strikes had "disturbed" consumer confidence in its Irish flight schedules.
Irish pilots staged strikes on July 12, 20 and 24 over pay and conditions.
Peter Bellew, Ryanair's chief operating officer, said the move would "result in some aircraft reductions and job cuts 
in country markets where business has weakened or forward bookings are being damaged by rolling strikes by Irish 
pilots". The company will consult on redundancies but will also offer transfers to Poland.
Forsa, the union representing Ryanair's Irish pilots, responded by announcing a fourth strike for August 3, saying 
the airline's "reckless and unnecessary" move had escalated the dispute. Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, 
said: "Antagonising the workforce in the context of labour disputes is a very risky strategy and will likely lead to 
greater union membership and higher strike participation, effectively increasing a union's bargaining power." 
Ryanair's announcement came as cabin crew went on strike in Spain, Portugal and Belgium.
Ryanair responds to Irish strikes by diverting 20% of Dublin fleet to Poland
Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC, said: "It would seem plausible that on a day when we've got cabin crew 
strikes across Europe, sending out redundancy notices is a tactical move to their staff across the system."
In Ryanair's first-quarter results on Monday, Michael O'Leary, chief executive, had warned of cuts to the airline's 
winter schedule if strikes continued, "which may lead to fleet reductions at disrupted bases and job losses".
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair responds to Irish strikes by diverting 20% of Dublin fleet to Poland
Ryanair responds to Irish strikes by diverting 20% of Dublin fleet to Poland
Financial Times (London, England)
July 26, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 334 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair, the low-cost airline founded in Ireland in 1985, has announced it will cut its Dublin-based fleet by 20 per 
cent this winter, following through on a threat intended to stop its Irish pilots from striking.
More than 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew could be affected by the move, the airline said yesterday.
At least six of Ryanair's 30 aircraft in Dublin will be sent to its Polish charter airline because of "a downturn in 
forward bookings and airfares in Ireland partly as a result of recent rolling strikes by Irish pilots", it said, adding that 
strikes had "disturbed" consumer confidence in its Irish flight schedules.
Irish pilots staged strikes on July 12, 20 and 24 over pay and conditions.
Peter Bellew, Ryanair's chief operating officer, said the move would "result in some aircraft reductions and job cuts 
in country markets where business has weakened or forward bookings are being damaged by rolling strikes by Irish 
pilots". The company will consult on redundancies but will also offer transfers to Poland.
Forsa, the union representing Ryanair's Irish pilots, responded by announcing a fourth strike for August 3, saying 
the airline's "reckless and unnecessary" move had escalated the dispute. Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, 
said: "Antagonising the workforce in the context of labour disputes is a very risky strategy and will likely lead to 
greater union membership and higher strike participation, effectively increasing a union's bargaining power." 
Ryanair's announcement came as cabin crew went on strike in Spain, Portugal and Belgium.
Ryanair responds to Irish strikes by diverting 20% of Dublin fleet to Poland
Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC, said: "It would seem plausible that on a day when we've got cabin crew 
strikes across Europe, sending out redundancy notices is a tactical move to their staff across the system."
In Ryanair's first-quarter results on Monday, Michael O'Leary, chief executive, had warned of cuts to the airline's 
winter schedule if strikes continued, "which may lead to fleet reductions at disrupted bases and job losses".
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair responds to Irish strikes by diverting 20% of Dublin fleet to Poland
Ryanair responds to Irish strikes by diverting 20% of Dublin fleet to Poland
Financial Times (London, England)
July 26, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 334 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair, the low-cost airline founded in Ireland in 1985, has announced it will cut its Dublin-based fleet by 20 per 
cent this winter, following through on a threat intended to stop its Irish pilots from striking.
More than 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew could be affected by the move, the airline said yesterday.
At least six of Ryanair's 30 aircraft in Dublin will be sent to its Polish charter airline because of "a downturn in 
forward bookings and airfares in Ireland partly as a result of recent rolling strikes by Irish pilots", it said, adding that 
strikes had "disturbed" consumer confidence in its Irish flight schedules.
Irish pilots staged strikes on July 12, 20 and 24 over pay and conditions.
Peter Bellew, Ryanair's chief operating officer, said the move would "result in some aircraft reductions and job cuts 
in country markets where business has weakened or forward bookings are being damaged by rolling strikes by Irish 
pilots". The company will consult on redundancies but will also offer transfers to Poland.
Forsa, the union representing Ryanair's Irish pilots, responded by announcing a fourth strike for August 3, saying 
the airline's "reckless and unnecessary" move had escalated the dispute. Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, 
said: "Antagonising the workforce in the context of labour disputes is a very risky strategy and will likely lead to 
greater union membership and higher strike participation, effectively increasing a union's bargaining power." 
Ryanair's announcement came as cabin crew went on strike in Spain, Portugal and Belgium.
Ryanair responds to Irish strikes by diverting 20% of Dublin fleet to Poland
Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC, said: "It would seem plausible that on a day when we've got cabin crew 
strikes across Europe, sending out redundancy notices is a tactical move to their staff across the system."
In Ryanair's first-quarter results on Monday, Michael O'Leary, chief executive, had warned of cuts to the airline's 
winter schedule if strikes continued, "which may lead to fleet reductions at disrupted bases and job losses".
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair responds to Irish strikes by diverting 20% of Dublin fleet to Poland
Ryanair responds to Irish strikes by diverting 20% of Dublin fleet to Poland
Financial Times (London, England)
July 26, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 332 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair, the low-cost airline founded in Ireland in 1985, has announced it will cut its Dublin-based fleet by 20 per 
cent this winter, following through on a threat intended to stop its Irish pilots from striking.
More than 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew could be affected by the move, the airline said yesterday.
At least six of Ryanair's 30 aircraft in Dublin will be sent to its Polish charter airline because of "a downturn in 
forward bookings and airfares in Ireland partly as a result of recent rolling strikes by Irish pilots", it said, adding that 
strikes had "disturbed" consumer confidence in its Irish flight schedules. Irish pilots staged strikes on July 12, 20 
and 24 over pay and conditions.
Peter Bellew, chief operating officer, said the move would "result in some aircraft reductions and job cuts in country 
markets where business has weakened or forward bookings are being damaged by rolling strikes by Irish pilots". 
The company will consult on redundancies but will also offer transfers to Poland.
Forsa, the union representing Ryanair's Irish pilots, responded by announcing a fourth strike for August 3, saying 
the airline's "reckless and unnecessary" move had escalated the dispute. Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, 
said: "Antagonising the workforce in the context of labour disputes is a very risky strategy and will likely lead to 
greater union membership and higher strike participation, effectively increasing a union's bargaining power." 
Ryanair's announcement came as cabin crew went on strike in Spain, Portugal and Belgium.
Ryanair responds to Irish strikes by diverting 20% of Dublin fleet to Poland
Andrew Lobbenberg, analyst at HSBC, said: "It would seem plausible that on a day when we've got cabin crew 
strikes across Europe, sending out redundancy notices is a tactical move to their staff across the system."
In Ryanair's first-quarter results on Monday, Michael O'Leary, chief executive, had warned of cuts to the airline's 
winter schedule if strikes continued, "which may lead to fleet reductions at disrupted bases and job losses".
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Airlines complain to EC over French air traffic controller strikes
Airlines complain to EC over French air traffic controller strikes
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
July 26, 2018 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: CIVIL PROJECTS; Automotive, Transport and Logistics
Length: 327 words
Highlight: International Airlines Group (IAG), Ryanair, EasyJet and Wizz Air have complained to the European 
Commission (EC) against France's air traffic controller strikes, claiming they limit EU freedom of movement.
Body
According to the airlines, France has allegedly broken EU law by not allowing flights over the country during 
strikes.Denial to enter France has had an impact on air passengers from other EU member states not affected by 
thestrike action, claim the airlines.The rate of French air traffic controller strikes has increased by 300% so far this 
year compared to 2017.Last month, the French Senate said that the country is responsible for 33% of flight delays 
in Europe.IAG chief executive Willie Walsh said: "The right to strike needs to be balanced against freedom of 
movement."It's not only customers flying in and out of France who are affected during French ATC strikes. 
Passengers on routes that overfly France, especially the large airspace that covers Marseille and the 
Mediterranean, are also subject to delays and massive disruptions."This affects all airlines but has a significant 
negative impact on Spain's tourism and economy."Eurocontrol is the intergovernmental organisation responsible for 
improving air traffic management across the EU. It noted that more than 16,000 flights had been delayed by June 
this year because of ATC strikes, affecting more than two million passengers.Ryanair chief executive Michael 
O'Leary said: "Europe's ATC providers are reaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights being cancelled 
and delayed daily either because of ATC strikes or because Europe's ATC don't have enough staff."When Greece 
and Italy have ATC strikes, overflights continue as normal."Why won't France do the same?
 ATC providers (especially in Germany and the UK) are hiding behind adverse weather and euphemisms such as 
'capacity restrictions' when the truth is they are not rostering enough air traffic controllers to cater for the number of 
flights that are scheduled to operate."Last year, EC said that Europe has witnessed around 357 ATC strikes since 
2005, which works out to roughly one month per year when the EU skies are disrupted.
Load-Date: August 9, 2018
End of Document
Thursday Papers: US strikes deal with EU to prevent trade war
Thursday Papers: US strikes deal with EU to prevent trade war
Citywire
July 26, 2018 Thursday 4:38 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 739 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And Facebook shares dive on revenue miss and slowing growth forecasts.
Body
Top stories
•
The Times: US President Donald Trump last night announced a pact with European Union to avoid a trade 
war, agreeing to work with the bloc on abolishing transatlantic tariffs.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Facebook shares fell as much as 25% in after-hours trade after the technology giant 
posted a rare miss on revenue and user numbers.
•
Financial Times: GloaxoSmithKline has unveiled a major restructuring with the announcement of a wide-
ranging partnership with a Silicon Valley gene testing company 23and Me, including a $300 million equity 
investment.
•
Financial Times: Ford, General Motors and Fiat Chrysker cut profits forecasts in a clear sign the global 
trade war is hurting the world's largest carmakers.
•
The Times: American chipmaker Qualcomm is abandoning its proposed $44 billion takeover of NXP 
Semiconductors after it emerged that Chinese regulators were not likely to give the deal the go-ahead.
Business and economics
•
The Daily Telegraph: Santander’s UK business registered a 15% decline in half-year profits due to 
“challenging” market conditions in Britain; however, the Spanish banking group posted overall solid results.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Retailer Joules reported 29% rise in pre-tax profits to £13 million as it continued to 
diversify the business towards homeware and lifestyle products, defying a meltdown on the high street.
•
The Times: Scottish Power posted a 30% jump in profits in the first half of the year as the long winter 
forced people to use more energy and after the company raised its prices last month.
•
Daily Mail: Vodafone's global sales slipped by nearly 5% in the first quarter of this year, amid sluggish 
trading in India, Italy and Spain.
•
Daily Mail: Wizz Air’s shares plunged more than 5% after the budget airline group suffered a 14% decline 
in profits for the first quarter.
•
The Times: Capital & Counties took a £52 million hit to its Earls Court redevelopment amid the slowdown in 
London’s luxury property market.
Thursday Papers: US strikes deal with EU to prevent trade war
•
The Daily Telegraph: Apple is unlikely to use Qualcomm’s cellular modems in the next iPhones, the chip 
maker’s chief financial officer George Davis has said, cutting the company out of one of the consumer 
electronics industry’s best-selling products.
•
The Guardian: Ryanair has revealed plans to cut its Dublin-based aircraft fleet by 20%, blaming recent pilot 
strike action, which might result into possible job losses for more than 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew.
•
Daily Mail: Passport maker De La Rue has threatened to block one of its biggest shareholders, Crystal 
Amber, from asking awkward questions at today's annual meeting.
•
The Times: John McFarlane, the chairman of Barclays and the main lobby group for financial services, has 
said that London will remain one of the world’s top financial centres and will not suffer any long-term 
damage, playing down the impact of Brexit.
•
The Times: Economists have warned that demand in the housing market remained weak despite the 
number of mortgages approved for house purchases in June reaching a nine-month high.
•
The Daily Telegraph: MPs have warned that the contract taken by Capita to outsource NHS England’s 
administration put patients at risk of serious harm.
•
The Daily Telegraph: The former Royal Mail chairman and Asda chief executive Allan Leighton has 
counted himself out of the running to replace current Stobart chairman Iain Ferguson.
•
The Guardian: The EU’s top court has ruled that gene-edited plants and animals fall under the same 
category as genetically modified and should be regulated as such, in a bitter blow to Europe’s biotech 
industry.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Nestlé has suffered defeat in a long-running legal battle with Cadbury over whether 
the shape of its KitKat chocolate bars can be protected by an EU trade mark.
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): HOLD 3i Group; AVOID Vodafone.
•
The Daily Telegraph (Questor share tips): After Beaufort, is the money you entrust to your stockbroker or 
fund shop really safe?
•
Financial Times: Bloomberg has snatched services of data provider BrokerTec from rival Thomson 
Reuters, signalling its aim to tighten grip over pricing information for issuers in the $8 trillion corporate bond 
market.
•
The Guardian (Comment): GlaxoSmithKline hopes the gene genie can hold the centre.
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): Another surrender on Brexit, but still it won't save the City tax gusher.
•
The Times (Comment): Why the merger of Sainsbury’s and Asda should fuel market concerns.
Load-Date: July 28, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair job role losses ahead as pay row heats up
Ryanair job role losses ahead as pay row heats up
City A.M.
July 26, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 311 words
Byline: ALEXANDRA ROGERS
Body
MORE than 100 Ryanair pilots and 200 cabin crew could lose their jobs after the airline yesterday announced plans 
to cut its Dublin-based fleet for winter 2018.
The budget airline said it was cutting its aircraft from 30 to 24 because of the rapid growth of its Polish charter 
airline, Ryanair Sun, which it said has led to a downturn in forward bookings and airfares in Ireland.
The airline said the affected staff may not be required to work from late October. Redundancy consultations are 
now underway, with the airline offering to transfer some staff to Poland and other bases to minimise job losses.
Ryanair's chief operating officer Peter Bellew said: "We regret these base aircraft reductions at Dublin for winter 
2018, but the board has decided to allocate more aircraft to those markets where we are enjoying strong growth, 
such as Poland, and this will result in some aircraft reductions and job cuts in country markets where business has 
weakened, or forward bookings are being damaged by rolling strikes by Irish pilots."
The news comes as cabin crew began a two-day walkout yesterday, continuing into today - just as the summer 
holidays start.
Ryanair cancelled 300 flights to and from Spain, Portugal and Belgium yesterday and the same number today as its 
bitter dispute with pilots and cabin crew staff over pay shows no signs of abating.
Cabin crew from across Europe published a list of 34 demands earlier this month, including "a fair living wage", 
improved sick pay and employment contracts in their own language based on local rather than Irish law.
Ryanair job role losses ahead as pay row heats up
Ryanair caused controversy yesterday when it published staff payslips, showing that Irish pilots earn up to 
(EURO)200,000 (£177,000) per annum.
It also refused to compensate passengers for the disruption, saying claims would be rejected because the 
cancellations were made in "extraordinary circumstances".
Graphic
 
Ryanair will cut cabin crew roles in Ireland
Load-Date: July 26, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to slash Dublin [...] Briefing
Ryanair to slash Dublin [...]; Briefing
Financial Times (London, England)
July 26, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, Middle East Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 1
Length: 38 words
Body
? Ryanair to slash Dublin fleet by 20% The low-cost airline founded in Ireland in 1985 has announced it will cut its 
Dublin-based fleet this winter, following through on a threat intended to stop its Irish pilots striking.- PAGE 11
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to slash Dublin [...] Briefing
Ryanair to slash Dublin [...]; Briefing
Financial Times (London, England)
July 26, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 38 words
Body
? Ryanair to slash Dublin fleet by 20% The low-cost airline founded in Ireland in 1985 has announced it will cut its 
Dublin-based fleet this winter, following through on a threat intended to stop its Irish pilots striking.- PAGE 11
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to slash Dublin [...] Briefing
Ryanair to slash Dublin [...]; Briefing
Financial Times (London, England)
July 26, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 38 words
Body
? Ryanair to slash Dublin fleet by 20% The low-cost airline founded in Ireland in 1985 has announced it will cut its 
Dublin-based fleet this winter, following through on a threat intended to stop its Irish pilots striking.- PAGE 13
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to slash Dublin [...]; Briefing
Ryanair to slash Dublin [...]; Briefing
Financial Times (London, England)
July 26, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 38 words
Body
? Ryanair to slash Dublin fleet by 20% The low-cost airline founded in Ireland in 1985 has announced it will cut its 
Dublin-based fleet this winter, following through on a threat intended to stop its Irish pilots striking.- PAGE 11
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to slash Dublin [...] Briefing
Ryanair to slash Dublin [...]; Briefing
Financial Times (London, England)
July 26, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 38 words
Body
? Ryanair to slash Dublin fleet by 20% The low-cost airline founded in Ireland in 1985 has announced it will cut its 
Dublin-based fleet this winter, following through on a threat intended to stop its Irish pilots striking.- PAGE 11
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
IAG picks Flybe strategist as first chief of its low-cost airline Level
IAG picks Flybe strategist as first chief of its low-cost airline Level
City A.M.
July 26, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 184 words
Byline: ALEXANDRA ROGERS
Body
BRITISH Airways owner IAG has made Flybe strategist Vincent Hodder the first chief executive of its low-cost 
airline Level.
IAG launched the new budget Austrian subsidiary late last month, in a move that was seen as throwing down the 
gauntlet to Laudamotion, set up by Niki Lauda, in which Ryanair acquired a majority stake in March. Flights on the 
airline started in June 2017, from its base in Barcelona to destinations such as Boston, Buenos Aires, Los Angeles 
and San Francisco.
Earlier this month, flights from Paris Orly to Montreal and Guadeloupe were added to the mix, while flights to New 
York and Martinique will go live in September.
Hodder currently serves as Flybe's chief strategy officer and has also worked with low-cost carriers such as Jetstar 
in Australia and Asia and VivaAerobus in Mexico. He will start his new position in early September.
IAG's director of strategy Robert Boyle said: "Vincent has extensive experience in the aviation industry and an in-
depth understanding of the low-cost business model. I have no doubt that he will continue to build upon Level's 
positive momentum."
Graphic
 
IAG picks Flybe strategist as first chief of its low-cost airline Level
IAG launched Level last year in the wake of stiff competition from budget rivals
Load-Date: July 26, 2018
End of Document
Thousands affected as Ryanair cabin crews go on strike
Thousands affected as Ryanair cabin crews go on strike
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 4:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 628 words
Byline: By ARITZ PARRA, Associated Press
Dateline: MADRID 
Body
MADRID (AP) - Cabin crew workers for low-cost airline Ryanair went on strike Wednesday in four European 
countries over working conditions, forcing tens of thousands of passengers to make last-minute travel adjustments 
at the peak of the summer holiday season.
Ryanair said the 50,000 customers affected by the cancellation of 600 flights over the two days were given 
alternative seats or offered full refunds.
Labour unions in Portugal, Spain, Belgium and Italy claim that employees of Ryanair or its subsidiaries have 
reduced leave allowances and access to state benefits because they were hired under contracts governed by 
countries where they are not based.
In response, the Dublin-based airline published June salary slips on its website. It argued that pilots and cabin crew 
are fairly paid in Portugal, Spain and Belgium, the three countries where strikes initially were called for Wednesday 
and Thursday.
Chiara Luchi, a 21-year-old student who planned to fly back to Pisa, Italy with her father after a weeklong holiday in 
Madrid, said they found their flight was cancelled when they arrived at Madrid airport.
"I have sympathy for the workers, but I don't think this is fair for the customers and those who have to travel 
because they need to work," Luchi said as she stood in a line with dozens of other stranded passengers waiting to 
file complaints.
After some back and forth, Ryanair offered to pay to put the father and daughter on a flight to Rome with another 
airline.
The two main unions representing pilots and cabin crews in Spain said negotiations with Ryanair over the contracts 
of more than 4,000 cabin crew members across Europe had failed.
Thousands affected as Ryanair cabin crews go on strike
Spain had the most planned cancellations ahead of the strike, with nearly one out of four daily Ryanair flights 
suspended. Spain's Ministry of Development said disruptions were minimal Wednesday, and the flight cancellations 
and delays that did take place were caused by walkouts by Italy-based crews.
Earlier, authorities required Ryanair to ensure that all flights serving the Spanish islands operated, and that at least 
35 percent of domestic flights and 59 percent of international ones were to be unaffected.
In Italy, at least 165 flights were cancelled, according to the Italian civil aviation authority. Ryanair didn't immediately 
confirm the number, but said in a statement that cancellations were due to a "strike action by a small number of 
cabin crew in Italy."
Italian unions said they want a collective contract that recognizes workers' rights and alleged that Ryanair has 
refused to negotiate.
A group of cabin crew workers wearing Ryanair uniforms gathered outside the departure terminal at Rome's 
Ciampino airport shouting "Ryanair must change." They had their faces covered, saying they feared retaliation from 
the airline.
At three Portuguese airports, 36 of 45 scheduled Ryanair flights were cancelled, and the airline's check-in areas 
were largely deserted. Ryanair had said before the strike that as many as 50 of 180 scheduled flights from and to 
Portugal could be cancelled during the strike period.
Bruno Fialho, of Portugal's Civil Aviation Cabin Crew Trade Union, urged the government to intervene in the 
dispute, claiming the airline is "trampling on Portuguese laws" by not respecting the labor rights of local staff.
The demands come as Irish pilots held rolling strikes that hit bookings and consumer confidence in Ireland, 
according to Ryanair.
The airline responded Thursday by warning hundreds of pilots and cabin crew members that they could lose their 
jobs as it cuts its Dublin-based aircraft fleet from 30 to 24.
Ryanair operates a fleet of over 450 aircraft from 87 bases.
__
Nicole Winfield in Rome, Danica Kirka in London and Barry Hatton in Lisbon, Portugal contributed to this report.
Load-Date: July 26, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Reduces Dublin-Based Fleet Size By 20%, Puts 300 Employees Under Protective Notice
Ryanair Reduces Dublin-Based Fleet Size By 20%, Puts 300 Employees 
Under Protective Notice
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 5:10 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 204 words
Body
 Ryanair (RYAAY) said pre-market Wednesday that its board approved a plan to reduce its Dublin-based fleet to 24 
aircraft from 30 for the coming winter 2018 season. 
The decision to trim its fleet size was due to the rapid growth of its Polish charter airline. The company said that 
Ryanair Sun will now offer over 10 aircraft to Polish tour operators, more than double the five aircraft offered this 
summer. 
The low-cost airliner also said that recent pilot and cabin crew strikes has hurt forward bookings and impacted 
customer confidence in the reliability of Irish flight schedules. The company said that it expects few route closures 
from Dublin as a result of reducing the fleet in its home base but that some routes may experience frequency 
reductions as it moves its aircraft to Ryanair Sun.
As a result of the Dublin base cuts, the airliner issued letters of protective notice to over 100 pilots and over 200 
cabin crew employees, whose services may not be required from Oct. 28 onward. The company said that it will 
begin consultations with its people on redundancy. It will also offer transfers to Poland for affected employees to 
minimize the need for redundancies.
Price: 105.83, Change: +2.31, Percent Change: +2.23
Load-Date: July 26, 2018
End of Document
European ADRs Move Lower in Wednesday Trading
European ADRs Move Lower in Wednesday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 11:02 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 228 words
Body
 American depositary receipts of European stocks were trading 0.32% lower at 139.31 on the Bank of New York 
Mellon Europe ADR Index on Wednesday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by pharmaceutical firm Oasmia Pharmaceutical (OASM), which surged 
18.8%, followed by telecommunications provider Telecom Italia (TI), 3D printer maker voxeljet (VJET), and bitoech 
company argenx (ARGX), which rose 3.4%, 2.3%, and 1.5% respectively. 
The decliners in continental Europe were led by semiconductor company STMicroelectronics (STM), and cell 
therapy company TiGenix (TIG), which fell 7.3% and 6.1% respectively. They were followed by hotel booking site 
Trivago (TRVG), and online dating site operator Spark Networks (LOV), which dropped 4.2% and 4%.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by biopharmaceutical companies NuCana (NCNA) and Adaptimmune 
Therapeutics (ADAP), which rose 9.5% and 2.9% respectively. They were followed by airline operator Ryanair 
(RYAAY), and publishing company Pearson (PSO), which were up 1.4% and 1%.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by insurance company Prudential (PUK), and biopharmaceutical firm 
Verona Pharma (VRNA), which lost 2.4% and 1.4% respectively. They were followed by communications group 
WPP (WPP), and Trinity Biotech (TRIB), which were off 1.3% and 1.2%.
Price: 2.41, Change: +0.39, Percent Change: +19.31
Load-Date: July 26, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings Cuts Dublin Fleet by 20% as Rolling Pilot Strikes Hit Forward Bookings in Ireland
Ryanair Holdings Cuts Dublin Fleet by 20% as Rolling Pilot Strikes Hit 
Forward Bookings in Ireland
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 7:00 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 322 words
Body
 Europe's biggest airline Ryanair (RYAAY, RYA.L) said early Wednesday that its board approved a plan to cut to its 
Dublin, Ireland-based fleet by 20%, a day after the carrier disclosed that its pre-tax profit plunged by a fifth because 
of surging staff costs.
The carrier, whose low-cost model is under threat from the growing influence of trade unions across its European 
operations following a rostering debacle in late 2017 that led to tens of thousands of flight cancellations, said the 
cuts were due to a downturn in forward bookings and airfares in Ireland partly as a result of recent rolling strikes by 
Irish pilots.
The job losses have also been driven by the rapid growth of the company's Polish charter airline, Ryanair Sun. 
Ryanair Sun will now offer more than 10 aircraft to Polish tour operators, more than double the five offered in the 
summer of 2018, the company said. 
The industrial action "has had a negative effect on high-fare bookings and forward airfares as consumer confidence 
in the reliability of our Irish flight schedules have been disturbed," the company said in a statement. "We expect few 
route closures from Dublin, although some routes may suffer frequency reductions."
In the light of planned cuts, Ryanair said it has issued notices to more than 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew 
employees, whose services might not be required from Oct. 28.
Ryanair said Monday pre-tax profit plunged in the fiscal first quarter that ended June 30 partly because of a 34% 
surge in staff costs, detracting from the increase in revenue on the back of a 7% jump in traffic even as 2,500 flights 
were canceled during the three-month period.
In addition to internal strikes, Ryanair said in its earnings report that the flight cancelations were also due to air 
traffic control shortages in the UK, Germany, and Greece as well as air traffic control industrial action in France.
Price: 107.63, Change: +4.11, Percent Change: +3.97
Ryanair Holdings Cuts Dublin Fleet by 20% as Rolling Pilot Strikes Hit Forward Bookings in Ireland
Load-Date: July 26, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Plans 20% Cut In Dublin Fleet This Winter; Sends Notice To 300 Staff
Ryanair Plans 20% Cut In Dublin Fleet This Winter; Sends Notice To 300 
Staff
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 9:47 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 323 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) wednesday announced that its Board 
approved a plan to cut its Dublin based fleet to at most 24 from 30 aircraft for the winter 2018 season.  The 
company noted that these reductions have been driven by the rapid growth of Ryanair's Polish charter airline, which 
is growing profitably in 2018.  In the light of the Dublin base cuts, Ryanair said it has issued letters of 90 days 
protective notice to over 100 pilots and over 200 cabin crew employees, whose services may not be required from 
October 28 onwards, due to this 20% reduction in the Dublin fleet this winter.  Ryanair will be offering transfers to 
Poland, and possibly some other bases, to these Dublin based pilots and cabin crew employees for Winter 2018 in 
order to minimise any redundancies. 
 Ryanair's Polish airline, Ryanair Sun, will now offer over 10 aircraft to Polish tour operators, more than double the 5 
aircraft offered in Summer 2018. The company expects few route closures from Dublin, although some routes may 
suffer frequency reductions.  Ryanair said it will now begin the consultations with its people on redundancy, which, if 
redundancies are necessary, will be determined by Ryanair's assessment of flight performance, productivity, 
attendances, and base transfer requests.  Ryanair's COO Peter Bellew said, 'We regret these base aircraft 
reductions at Dublin for Winter 2018, but the Board has decided to allocate more aircraft to those markets where we 
are enjoying strong growth (such as Poland), and this will result in some aircraft reductions and job cuts in country 
markets where business has weakened, or forward bookings are being damaged by rolling strikes by Irish pilots.'  
The company said it has invited Forsa and its Pilots Committee to a meeting to brief them on these planned base 
cuts and job losses.  In London, Ryanair shares were trading at 14.24 euros, up 1.86%.      
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
European Shares Mixed At Midday Amid Earnings Deluge
European Shares Mixed At Midday Amid Earnings Deluge
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 5:54 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 452 words
Body
 European stocks were moving in a narrow range on Wednesday at midday, as investors digested a slew of mixed 
earnings reports and looked ahead to a key meeting between US President Donald Trump and European 
Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker on trade for direction.
Weak German business sentiment data also weighed on markets. According to survey results from Ifo Institute, The 
German business confidence index fell to 101.7 in July from 101.8 in June. Analysts expected the score to fall to 
101.5.
Companies were slightly more satisfied with their current business situation, but scaled back their business 
expectations slightly, Ifo President Clemens Fuest, said.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index was virtually unchanged at 388.24, the German DAX was declining 
0.2% and the UK's FTSE 100 was losing 0.6%, while France's CAC 40 index was moving up 0.3%.
Ageas soared 5% after reports that Fosun International is considering an offer for all or parts of the Belgian insurer 
Ageas.
Italian telecom giant Telecom Italia advanced over 1%. The company said it would consider strategic options for its 
subsidiaries and would press ahead with the sale of its stake in broadcasting unit Persidera.
Swiss drug ingredients maker Lonza climbed 6% after reporting a surge in half-year profit on strong sales.
Drug company Indivior plunged as much as 21% in London. The company has warned of a bigger-than-expected 
hit from the launch of a copycat of its opioid addiction treatment.
BHP Billiton lost 1.3% amid potential disruption to production at Chile's Escondida copper mine.
Miner Antofagasta shed 1.2% on reporting an 8.5% fall in copper production for the first six months of the year.
Tullow Oil jumped 2.8% as oil prices rose for a second straight session on data showing a fall in US inventories.
European Shares Mixed At Midday Amid Earnings Deluge
Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings rose 4% after its board approved a plan to cut its Dublin based fleet to at 
most 24 from 30 aircraft for the winter 2018 season.
British broadcaster ITV advanced 1.6% after reporting a rise in first-half profits and revenues.
French metals group Eramet slumped 17%. The company has warned that current favorable markets could be hurt 
by rising tensions and uncertainty in international trade relations.
Luxury goods conglomerate LVMH jumped more than 2% on posting robust first-half results. Gucci owner Kering 
rallied 2.8%.
German lender Deutsche Bank dropped 1.2% after its net income for the second quarter of 2018 fell 14% from last 
year, hit by lower revenues amid weakness in its core businesses.
Sergio Marchionne, the former head of Italian-American carmaker Fiat Chrysler, who stepped down Saturday due 
to ill health, has died aged 66, his former company said Wednesday.
Load-Date: July 26, 2018
End of Document
European Markets Pull Back In Cautious Trade
European Markets Pull Back In Cautious Trade
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 12:12 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 619 words
Body
 The majority of the European markets ended Wednesday's session in the red. Weak German business sentiment 
data and mixed corporate earnings weighed on investor sentiment. 
Traders were also in a cautious mood ahead of a key meeting between US President Donald Trump and European 
Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker on trade.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index weakened by 0.26%. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip 
stocks decreased 0.45%, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major UK companies, lost 0.24%.
The DAX of Germany dropped 0.87% and the CAC of France fell 0.14%. The FTSE 100 of the UK declined 0.66%, 
but the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 0.15%.
In Frankfurt, Deutsche Bank dropped 1.68% after its net income for the second quarter of 2018 fell 14% from last 
year, hit by lower revenues amid weakness in its core businesses.
In Paris, metals group Eramet tumbled 16.08%. The company has warned that current favorable markets could be 
hurt by rising tensions and uncertainty in international trade relations.
Luxury goods conglomerate LVMH jumped 1.81% after posting robust first-half results. Gucci owner Kering rallied 
2.59%.
In London, drug company Indivior plunged 7.74%. The company warned of a bigger-than-expected hit from the 
launch of a copycat of its opioid addiction treatment.
BHP Billiton lost 1.49% amid potential disruption to production at Chile's Escondida copper mine.
Miner Antofagasta gained 0.57% after reporting an 8.5% fall in copper production for the first six months of the year.
Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings advanced 0.72% after its board approved a plan to cut its Dublin based fleet 
to at most 24 from 30 aircraft for the winter 2018 season.
European Markets Pull Back In Cautious Trade
Broadcaster ITV rose 0.91% after reporting a rise in first-half profits and revenues boosted by the football World 
Cup and smash-hit reality TV show Love Island. 
Drug ingredients maker Lonza climbed 6.62% in Zurich after reporting a surge in half-year profit on strong sales.
Telecom Italia advanced 1.48% in Milan. The company said it would consider strategic options for its subsidiaries 
and would press ahead with the sale of its stake in broadcasting unit Persidera.
Ageas surged 3.23% in Brussels after reports that Fosun International is considering an offer for all or parts of the 
Belgian insurer Ageas.
Germany's business sentiment weakened for the second straight month in July as escalating trade tensions with 
the US weighed on firms' expectations, a closely watched survey showed Wednesday.
The business confidence index fell to 101.7 in July from 101.8 in June, survey data from the Munich-based Ifo 
Institute revealed. This was the lowest score since March 2017. The expected level for July was 101.5.
Germany's construction orders increased in May from April, data from Destatis showed Wednesday. The 
seasonally, working-day and price-adjusted orders in construction rose 4.6% month-over-month in May.
French producer prices in the domestic market rose marginally in June, the statistical office Insee reported 
Wednesday. Producer prices edged up 0.1% month-over-month in June, slower than the 0.7% rise in May.
UK mortgage approvals increased to a 9-month high in June, data from UK Finance showed Wednesday. The 
number of mortgages approved for house purchases rose to 40,541 in June from 39,528 in May. This was the 
highest since September 2017.
A report released by the Commerce Department on Wednesday showed a bigger than expected drop in new home 
sales in the US in the month of June.
The report said new home sales plunged by 5.3% to an annual rate of 631,000 in June after jumping by 3.9% to a 
rate of 666,000 in May. Economists had expected new home sales to fall by 2.8%.
Load-Date: July 26, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to cut Dublin based fleet by 20%
Ryanair to cut Dublin based fleet by 20%
Business World (Digest)
July 25, 2018 Wednesday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 394 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair’s Board has today approved a plan to cut its Dublin based fleet from 30 to (at most) 24 aircraft for the 
winter 2018 season.
Ryanair say these reductions have been driven by the rapid growth of Ryanair’s Polish charter airline, which is 
growing profitably in 2018, allied to a down turn in forward bookings and airfares in Ireland partly as a result of 
recent rolling strikes by Irish pilots, which Ryanair say has had a negative effect on (close-in) high fare bookings 
and forward air fares as consumer confidence in the reliability of its Irish flight schedules has been disturbed.   
Ryanair’s Polish airline, Ryanair Sun, will now offer over 10 aircraft to Polish tour operators, more than double the 5 
aircraft offered in Summer 2018. Ryanair say they expect few route closures from Dublin, although some routes 
may suffer frequency reductions.
In the light of these Dublin base cuts, Ryanair has today issued letters of (90 days) protective notice to over 100 
pilots and over 200 cabin crew employees, whose services may not be required from 28 Oct onwards, due to this 
20% reduction in the Dublin fleet this winter.   Ryanair say it will now begin the consultations with its people on 
redundancy, which, if redundancies are necessary, will be determined by Ryanair’s assessment of flight 
performance, productivity, attendances, and base transfer requests.
Ryanair say it will be offering transfers to Poland (and possibly some other bases) to these Dublin based pilots and 
cabin crew employees for Winter 2018 in order to minimise any redundancies.   In a statement today, Ryanair’s 
COO, Peter Bellew said, "We regret these base aircraft reductions at Dublin for Winter 2018, but the Board has 
decided to allocate more aircraft to those markets where we are enjoying strong growth (such as Poland), and this 
will result in some aircraft reductions and job cuts in country markets where business has weakened, or forward 
bookings are being damaged by rolling strikes by Irish pilots."
Ryanair to cut Dublin based fleet by 20%
He added, "Ryanair operates a fleet of over 450 aircraft from 87 bases across Europe. We can only do so if we 
continue to offer low fares, reliable flight services to our customers, and if our reputation for reliability or forward 
bookings is affected, then base and potential job cuts such as these at Dublin are a deeply regretted consequence."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 24, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair warns over Ireland jobs as strikes hit 50,000 passengers
Ryanair warns over Ireland jobs as strikes hit 50,000 passengers
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 12:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 260 words
Byline: Bill Smith in London
Dateline: London (dpa) - 
Body
Budget airline Ryanair warned staff in Ireland that up to 300 jobs could be lost this winter, as strikes by cabin crew 
affected its flights in three other countries on Wednesday.
The airline said it had issued notices of possible redundancy to 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew after its board 
approved a plan to cut its Dublin-based fleet from 30 to 24 aircraft this winter.
If the cut goes ahead, the airline will offer transfers to Poland, and possibly other bases, to "minimize any 
redundancies," Ryanair said.
The airline's chief operating officer, Peter Bellew, suggested the move was partly linked to "forward bookings being 
damaged by rolling strikes by Irish pilots."
Bellew said potential job cuts would be "a deeply regretted consequence" of any damage to Ryanair's "reputation 
for reliability or forward bookings" from its fleet of more than 450 aircraft in 87 European bases.
In a quarterly report on Monday, the airline criticized "unnecessary strikes" by about 25 per cent of Irish-based pilots 
this month.
Ryanair also cancelled 600 flights scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday due to a strike by cabin crew in three 
countries.
"We apologize to the 50,000 Belgium, Spain and Portugal customers whose flights today were cancelled," the 
airline tweeted on Wednesday.
It said all other scheduled Ryanair flights were "operating as normal" on Wednesday, but air-traffic control staff 
shortages in France, Germany and Greece delayed 50 of the airline's 345 early morning flights.
Ryanair warns over Ireland jobs as strikes hit 50,000 passengers
Editorial contactsEditing by: Stephen Lowman, +49 30 285231472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: July 26, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair warns over Ireland jobs as strikes hit 50,000 passengers
Ryanair warns over Ireland jobs as strikes hit 50,000 passengers
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 12:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 256 words
Body
       LONDON (dpa-AFX) - Budget airline Ryanair warned staff in Ireland that up to 300 jobs could be lost this 
winter, as strikes by cabin crew affected its flights in three other countries on Wednesday.  The airline said it had 
issued notices of possible redundancy to 100 pilots and 200 cabin crew after its board approved a plan to cut its 
Dublin-based fleet from 30 to 24 aircraft this winter. 
 If the cut goes ahead, the airline will offer transfers to Poland, and possibly other bases, to 'minimize any 
redundancies,' Ryanair said.  The airline's chief operating officer, Peter Bellew, suggested the move was partly 
linked to 'forward bookings being damaged by rolling strikes by Irish pilots.'  Bellew said potential job cuts would be 
'a deeply regretted consequence' of any damage to Ryanair's 'reputation for reliability or forward bookings' from its 
fleet of more than 450 aircraft in 87 European bases.  In a quarterly report on Monday, the airline criticized 
'unnecessary strikes' by about 25 per cent of Irish-based pilots this month.  Ryanair also cancelled 600 flights 
scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday due to a strike by cabin crew in three countries.  'We apologize to the 
50,000 Belgium, Spain and Portugal customers whose flights today were cancelled,' the airline tweeted on 
Wednesday.  It said all other scheduled Ryanair flights were 'operating as normal' on Wednesday, but air-traffic 
control staff shortages in France, Germany and Greece delayed 50 of the airline's 345 early morning flights.   
Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
FTSE 100 Slides As Indivior Warns Of Bigger Impact From Copycat Drug
FTSE 100 Slides As Indivior Warns Of Bigger Impact From Copycat Drug
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 11:27 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 211 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - U.K. stocks retreated on Wednesday as investors watched for 
more developments on the trade front.   Markets remain very anxious about the outcome of a key meeting between 
U.S. President Donald Trump and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker on trade later in the day.   
The benchmark FTSE 100 was down 45 points or 0.59 percent at 7,663 in late opening deals after gaining 0.7 
percent the previous day.   Drug company Indivior plunged as much as 21 percent. The company has warned of a 
bigger-than-expected hit from the launch of a copycat of its opioid addiction treatment.  BHP Billiton lost 1.3 percent 
amid potential disruption to production at Chile's Escondida copper mine.  Miner Antofagasta shed 1.2 percent on 
reporting an 8.5 percent fall in copper production for the first six months of the year.  Tullow Oil jumped 2.8 percent 
as oil prices rose for a second straight session on data showing a fall in U.S. inventories.   Irish low-cost airline 
Ryanair Holdings soared 4 percent after its board approved a plan to cut its Dublin based fleet to at most 24 from 
30 aircraft for the winter 2018 season.  Broadcaster ITV advanced 1.6 percent after reporting a rise in first-half 
profits and revenues.      
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
European Shares Mixed Amid Earnings Deluge
European Shares Mixed Amid Earnings Deluge
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 11:49 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 456 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - European stocks were moving in a narrow range on Wednesday 
as investors digested a slew of mixed earnings reports and looked ahead to a key meeting between U.S. President 
Donald Trump and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker on trade for direction.  Weak German 
business sentiment data also weighed on markets. According to survey results from Ifo Institute, The German 
business confidence index fell to 101.7 in July from 101.8 in June. 
Analysts expected the score to fall to 101.5.  Companies were slightly more satisfied with their current business 
situation, but scaled back their business expectations slightly, Ifo President Clemens Fuest, said.  The pan-
European Stoxx Europe 600 index was virtually unchanged at 388.24, the German DAX was declining 0.2 percent 
and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 was losing 0.6 percent, while France's CAC 40 index was moving up 0.3 percent.   Ageas 
soared 5 percent after reports that Fosun International is considering an offer for all or parts of the Belgian insurer 
Ageas.  Italian telecom giant Telecom Italia advanced over 1 percent. The company said it would consider strategic 
options for its subsidiaries and would press ahead with the sale of its stake in broadcasting unit Persidera.  Swiss 
drug ingredients maker Lonza climbed 6 percent after reporting a surge in half-year profit on strong sales.   Drug 
company Indivior plunged as much as 21 percent in London. The company has warned of a bigger-than-expected 
hit from the launch of a copycat of its opioid addiction treatment.  BHP Billiton lost 1.3 percent amid potential 
disruption to production at Chile's Escondida copper mine.  Miner Antofagasta shed 1.2 percent on reporting an 8.5 
percent fall in copper production for the first six months of the year.  Tullow Oil jumped 2.8 percent as oil prices rose 
for a second straight session on data showing a fall in U.S. inventories.  Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings 
soared 4 percent after its board approved a plan to cut its Dublin based fleet to at most 24 from 30 aircraft for the 
winter 2018 season.  British broadcaster ITV advanced 1.6 percent after reporting a rise in first-half profits and 
revenues.  French metals group Eramet slumped 17 percent. The company has warned that current favorable 
markets could be hurt by rising tensions and uncertainty in international trade relations.  Luxury goods 
conglomerate LVMH jumped more than 2 percent on posting robust first-half results. Gucci owner Kering rallied 2.8 
percent.   German lender Deutsche Bank dropped 1.2 percent after its net income for the second quarter of 2018 
fell 14 percent from last year, hit by lower revenues amid weakness in its core businesses.      
European Shares Mixed Amid Earnings Deluge
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
European Markets Pulled Back In Cautious Trade
European Markets Pulled Back In Cautious Trade
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 5:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 654 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - The majority of the European markets ended Wednesday's 
session in the red. Weak German business sentiment data and mixed corporate earnings weighed on investor 
sentiment. Traders were also in a cautious mood ahead of a key meeting between U.S. President Donald Trump 
and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker on trade.  The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index 
weakened by 0.26 percent. 
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks decreased 0.45 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, lost 0.24 percent.  The DAX of Germany dropped 0.87 percent and the 
CAC of France fell 0.14 percent. The FTSE 100 of the U.K. declined 0.66 percent, but the SMI of Switzerland 
finished higher by 0.15 percent.  In Frankfurt, Deutsche Bank dropped 1.68 percent after its net income for the 
second quarter of 2018 fell 14 percent from last year, hit by lower revenues amid weakness in its core businesses.  
In Paris, metals group Eramet tumbled 16.08 percent. The company has warned that current favorable markets 
could be hurt by rising tensions and uncertainty in international trade relations.  Luxury goods conglomerate LVMH 
jumped 1.81 percent after posting robust first-half results. Gucci owner Kering rallied 2.59 percent.  In London, drug 
company Indivior plunged 7.74 percent. The company warned of a bigger-than-expected hit from the launch of a 
copycat of its opioid addiction treatment.  BHP Billiton lost 1.49 percent amid potential disruption to production at 
Chile's Escondida copper mine.  Miner Antofagasta gained 0.57 percent after reporting an 8.5 percent fall in copper 
production for the first six months of the year.  Irish low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings advanced 0.72 percent after 
its board approved a plan to cut its Dublin based fleet to at most 24 from 30 aircraft for the winter 2018 season.  
Broadcaster ITV rose 0.91 percent after reporting a rise in first-half profits and revenues.  Drug ingredients maker 
Lonza climbed 6.62 percent in Zurich after reporting a surge in half-year profit on strong sales.  Telecom Italia 
advanced 1.48 percent in Milan. The company said it would consider strategic options for its subsidiaries and would 
press ahead with the sale of its stake in broadcasting unit Persidera.  Ageas surged 3.23 percent in Brussels after 
reports that Fosun International is considering an offer for all or parts of the Belgian insurer Ageas.  Germany's 
business sentiment weakened for the second straight month in July as escalating trade tensions with the U.S. 
weighed on firms' expectations, a closely watched survey showed Wednesday.   The business confidence index fell 
to 101.7 in July from 101.8 in June, survey data from the Munich-based Ifo Institute revealed. This was the lowest 
European Markets Pulled Back In Cautious Trade
score since March 2017. The expected level for July was 101.5.  Germany's construction orders increased in May 
from April, data from Destatis showed Wednesday. The seasonally, working-day and price-adjusted orders in 
construction rose 4.6 percent month-over-month in May.  French producer prices in the domestic market rose 
marginally in June, the statistical office Insee reported Wednesday. Producer prices edged up 0.1 percent month-
over-month in June, slower than the 0.7 percent rise in May.  UK mortgage approvals increased to a 9-month high 
in June, data from UK Finance showed Wednesday. The number of mortgages approved for house purchases rose 
to 40,541 in June from 39,528 in May. This was the highest since September 2017.  A report released by the 
Commerce Department on Wednesday showed a bigger than expected drop in new home sales in the U.S. in the 
month of June.  The report said new home sales plunged by 5.3 percent to an annual rate of 631,000 in June after 
jumping by 3.9 percent to a rate of 666,000 in May. Economists had expected new home sales to fall by 2.8 
percent.      
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair warns of Ireland job cuts as pilots plan new one-day strike
Ryanair warns of Ireland job cuts as pilots plan new one-day strike
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 6:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Body
       By dpa correspondents   LONDON (dpa-AFX) - Budget airline Ryanair warned staff in Ireland on Wednesday 
that up to 300 jobs could be cut this winter, as Irish-based pilots announced a new one-day strike and action by 
cabin crew affected flights in three other countries.  The airline said it had issued notices of possible redundancy to 
100 pilots and 200 cabin crew after its board approved a plan to cut its Dublin-based fleet from 30 to 24 aircraft this 
winter.  Irish and British pilots' unions reacted angrily to the announcement, with the Irish union calling Ryanair's 
move 'reckless, unnecessary and designed to intimidate our members.' 
 Forsa, an Irish public sector union representing pilots, announced another one-day strike by pilots on August 3.  It 
said more strike days would follow 'unless the airline's management changed tack and negotiated in good faith on 
the issue of base transfers and related matters.'  The British union, BALPA, said Ryanair's action was 'extremely 
regrettable.'  'The accompanying job losses could look to Irish pilots and other people like a punishment for 
participation in strike action,' it said, adding that the move was likely to 'inflame the situation.'  Ryanair cancelled 
600 flights scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday due to a strike by cabin crew in three countries.  'We apologize 
to the 50,000 Belgium, Spain and Portugal customers whose flights today were cancelled,' the airline tweeted on 
Wednesday.  Eighteen Ryanair flights were cancelled on Wednesday at Brussels airport, impacting 3,500 
passengers, airport spokeswoman Nathalie Pierard told dpa.  At Charleroi airport 50 kilometres south of Brussels, 
which is used predominantly by budget airlines, 36 of the 57 planned flights were cancelled, according to the 
Belgian trade union CNE.  In Italy, 190 flights were cancelled, a spokeswoman for the Union Uiltrasporti told dpa, 
adding that airports in Bergamo, Pisa, Catania, Rome Ciampino and Naples were among the worst affected.  
Another union, CGIL, said there were only 156 flights cancelled in Italy but said that number could still increase as 
the unions had called for a 24-hour walkout.  Many passengers were not informed of cancellations by Ryanair and 
still travelled to airports, a CGIL spokesman said.  In Germany, 16 flights were expected to be cancelled at 
Cologne-Bonn Airport on Wednesday and Thursday, with Berlin-Schoenefeld also expecting seven cancellations.  
Ryanair promised to offer transfers to Poland, and possibly other bases, to 'minimize any redundancies' if the job 
cuts in Ireland go ahead.  The airline's chief operations officer, Peter Bellew, suggested the move was partly linked 
to 'forward bookings being damaged by rolling strikes by Irish pilots.'  Bellew said potential job cuts would be 'a 
deeply regretted consequence' of any damage to Ryanair's 'reputation for reliability or forward bookings' from its 
Ryanair warns of Ireland job cuts as pilots plan new one-day strike
fleet of more than 450 aircraft in 87 European bases.  In a quarterly report on Monday, the airline criticized 
'unnecessary strikes' by about 25 per cent of Irish-based pilots this month.  Ryanair's former chief operations officer 
resigned last summer after widespread criticism of the cancellation of tens of thousands of flights because of 
problems over pilot rostering and a backlog of holidays.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 25.07.2018 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 25.07.2018 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 8:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 645 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - The following investment banks issued recommendations this morning as follows:  
Analyst recommendations in the dpa-AFX International ProFeed on 25.07.2018 - 08.50 am  - BERENBERG 
RAISES ADIDAS PRICE TARGET TO 207 (202) EUR - 'HOLD' - DEUTSCHE BANK CUTS KLOECKNER & CO 
PRICE TARGET TO 10.50 (11.00) EUR - 'HOLD' - LAMPE CUTS SYMRISE TO 'SELL' (HOLD) - MAINFIRST 
CUTS SARTORIUS TO 'NEUTRAL' (OUTPERFORM) - PRICE TARGET 150 EUR - MORGAN STANLEY CUTS 
HENKEL TO 'UNDERWEIGHT' (EQUAL-WEIGHT) - RPT/LBBW RAISES SARTORIUS PRICE TARGET TO 146 
(125) EUR - 'HOLD' - UBS CUTS TELEFONICA DEUTSCHLAND PRICE TARGET TO 4.55 (4.70) EUR - 'BUY' - 
UBS CUTS TUI PRICE TARGET TO 1600 (1720) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL'  - BERENBERG CUTS ELI LILLY TO 
'HOLD' (BUY) - PRICE TARGET 99 (100) USD - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES VERIZON PRICE TARGET TO 59 
(56) USD - 'BUY' - GOLDMAN RAISES ELI LILLY PRICE TARGET TO 100 (95) USD - 'NEUTRAL' - GOLDMAN 
RAISES TEXAS INSTRUMENTS PRICE TARGET TO 107 (104) USD - 'SELL' - UBS RAISES TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS PRICE TARGET TO 93 (89) USD - 'SELL'  - BARCLAYS CUTS SPECTRIS PRICE TARGET TO 
2700 (2980) PENCE - 'EQUAL WEIGHT' - BARCLAYS RAISES IG GROUP PRICE TARGET TO 1040 (990) 
PENCE - 'OVERWEIGHT' - BARCLAYS STARTS ADYEN WITH 'UNDERWEIGHT' - PRICE TARGET 470 EUR - 
BERENBERG CUTS HASTINGS GROUP PRICE TARGET TO 310 (334) PENCE - 'BUY' - BERENBERG CUTS 
YARA PRICE TARGET TO 420 (430) NOK - 'BUY' - BERENBERG INITIATES BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS WITH 
'BUY' - TARGET 670 PENCE - BERENBERG INITIATES BELLWAY WITH 'BUY' - TARGET 3760 PENCE - 
BERENBERG INITIATES BERKELEY GROUP WITH 'HOLD' - TARGET 3360 PENCE - BERENBERG INITIATES 
BOVIS HOMES WITH 'BUY' - TARGET 1340 PENCE - BERENBERG INITIATES CREST NICHOLSON WITH 
'HOLD' - TARGET 440 PENCE - BERENBERG INITIATES MCCARTHY & STONE WITH 'HOLD' - TARGET 110 
PENCE - BERENBERG INITIATES REDROW WITH 'BUY' - TARGET 650 PENCE - BERENBERG INITIATES 
TAYLOR WIMPEY WITH 'BUY' - TARGET 210 PENCE - BERENBERG RAISES COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES 
PRICE TARGET TO 430 (335) PENCE - 'BUY' - BERENBERG RAISES GLEESON (M.J.) PRICE TARGET TO 890 
(820) PENCE - 'BUY' - BERNSTEIN CUTS RYANAIR PRICE TARGET TO 15.00 (15.40) EUR - 'MARKET-
PERFORM' - CITIGROUP CUTS BOOHOO TO 'NEUTRAL' ('BUY') - CITIGROUP RAISES KINGFISHER TO 
'NEUTRAL' ('SELL') - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES LVMH PRICE TARGET TO 295 (278) EUR - 'HOLD' - 
DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES PSA PRICE TARGET TO 28 (24) EUR - 'BUY' - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES SAFRAN 
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 25.07.2018 - 08.50 am
PRICE TARGET TO 108 (95) EUR - 'HOLD' - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES UBS PRICE TARGET TO 18.00 (17.50) 
SFR - 'HOLD' - GOLDMAN CUTS ANGLO AMERICAN PRICE TARGET TO 2050 (2100) P - 'CONVICTION BUY' - 
GOLDMAN CUTS MICRO FOCUS PRICE TARGET TO 1300 (1400) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - GOLDMAN CUTS 
SPECTRIS PRICE TARGET TO 2620 (3000) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - GOLDMAN RAISES LVMH PRICE TARGET 
TO 326 (312) EUR - 'BUY' - JPMORGAN RAISES PHILIPS PRICE TARGET TO 40 (39.8) EUR - 'NEUTRAL' - 
JPMORGAN RESUMES INMARSAT WITH 'NEUTRAL'  - TARGET 650 PENCE - RBC CUTS ANGLO AMERICAN 
PRICE TARGET TO 1750 (1850) PENCE - 'OUTPERFORM' - RBC CUTS BHP BILLITON PRICE TARGET TO 
1425 (1475) PENCE - 'SECTOR PERFORM' - RBC CUTS BT GROUP TO 'SECTOR PERFORM' 
('OUTPERFORM') - TARGET 275 (385) PENCE - RBC CUTS GLENCORE PRICE TARGET TO 400 (410) PENCE 
- 'OUTPERFORM' - RBC CUTS RIO TINTO TO 'UNDERPERFORM' (SECTOR PERF) - PRICE TARGET 3400 
(3900) PENCE - RBC RAISES ANTOFAGASTA PRICE TARGET TO 970 (940) PENCE - 'SECTOR PERFORM' - 
RBC RAISES FEVERTREE DRINKS PRICE TARGET TO 4000 (3200) PENCE - 'OUTPERFORM' - RPT/CREDIT 
SUISSE RAISES LVMH PRICE TARGET TO 350 (290) EUR - 'OUTPERFORM' - RPT/JPMORGAN RAISES LVMH 
PRICE TARGET TO 335 (325) EUR - 'OVERWEIGHT' - UBS INITIATES THOMAS COOK WITH 'SELL' - TARGET 
85 PENCE - UBS RAISES LVMH PRICE TARGET TO 335 (320) EUR - 'BUY'   dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten 
GmbH assumes no liability for the  correctness of this information./rob    
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Carriers protest to EU over air traffic control strikes Airlines
Carriers protest to EU over air traffic control strikes; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 25, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 513 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Four of Europe's biggest airlines have filed complaints with the European Commission over air traffic controllers' 
strikes and shortages, saying they breach "the fundamental principle of free movement within the EU".
British Airways owner IAG and low-cost carriers easyJet, Ryanair and Wizz Air have taken co-ordinated action after 
cancelling thousands of flights this year because of the strikes.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair chief executive, said the disruptions were "unacceptable", adding: "Europe's ATC 
providers are reaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights being cancelled and delayed daily either 
because of ATC strikes or because Europe's ATC don't have enough staff."
On Monday, Ryanair's first-quarter results showed that the shortages and strikes had forced the airline to cancel 
more than 2,500 flights, affecting 450,000 passengers, and to pay out 40 per cent more in compensation than the 
same quarter last year.
According to Eurocontrol, which coordinates national air traffic control agencies, ATC strikes had delayed more than 
16,000 flights by June this year, hitting more than 2m passengers. Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, said: "The 
right to strike needs to be balanced against freedom of movement. It's not only customers flying in and out of 
France who are affected during French ATC strikes. Passengers on routes that overfly France, especially the large 
airspace that covers Marseille and the Mediterranean, are also subject to delays and massive disruptions."
Carriers protest to EU over air traffic control strikes Airlines
The airlines said their case was supported by a 1997 European Court of Justice ruling that French farmers had 
prevented Spanish farmers from exporting their goods into the EU.
Ryanair's complaint said the right to industrial action was fundamental, but "it is not an absolute right and if the 
industrial action restricts the freedom of movement, it has to be proportionate to the aims pursued. Ryanair 
considers the strikes to be disproportionate.
"France also hampers European airlines' fundamental right of freedom to conduct a business in other member 
states ... since, despite the fact that the industrial action in question takes place in France, the airlines cannot 
operate to and from the adjacent member states."
The commission declined to comment on the specific complaints until they had been analysed, but said: "The right 
of strike is a fundamental right of workers. We nonetheless recognise that delays or cancellation of flights have a 
negative impact for passengers and the entire EU economy. This is why in June 2017 we proposed non-binding 
good practices aiming to maintain the continuity of air traffic management in the event of disruption such as strikes."
France's Directorate General for Civil Aviation said: "The French constitution guarantees the right to strike. The 
French authorities are aware of the potential adverse impact on air traffic, and implement mechanisms to mitigate 
the consequences on passengers and airlines."
Additional reporting by Alex Barker in Brussels
'Europe's ATC providers are reaching the point of meltdown' Michael O'Leary, Ryanair CEO
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Carriers protest to EU over air traffic control strikes Airlines
Carriers protest to EU over air traffic control strikes; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 25, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 17
Length: 513 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Four of Europe's biggest airlines have filed complaints with the European Commission over air traffic controllers' 
strikes and shortages, saying they breach "the fundamental principle of free movement within the EU".
British Airways owner IAG and low-cost carriers easyJet, Ryanair and Wizz Air have taken co-ordinated action after 
cancellinthousands of flights this year because of the strikes.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair chief executive, said the disruptions were "unacceptable", adding: "Europe's ATC 
providers are reaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights being cancelled and delayed daily either 
because of ATC strikes or because Europe's ATC don't have enough staff."
On Monday, Ryanair's first-quarter results showed that the shortages and strikes had forced the airline to cancel 
more than 2,500 flights, affecting 450,000 passengers, and to pay out 40 per cent more in compensation than the 
same quarter last year.
According to Eurocontrol, which coordinates national air traffic control agencies, ATC strikes had delayed more than 
16,000 flights by June this year, hitting more than 2m passengers. Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, said: "The 
right to strike needs to be balanced against freedom of movement. It's not only customers flying in and out of 
France who are affected during French ATC strikes. Passengers on routes that overfly France, especially the large 
airspace that covers Marseille and the Mediterranean, are also subject to delays and massive disruptions."
Carriers protest to EU over air traffic control strikes Airlines
The airlines said their case was supported by a 1997 European Court of Justice ruling that French farmers had 
prevented Spanish farmers from exporting their goods into the EU.
Ryanair's complaint said the right to industrial action was fundamental, but "it is not an absolute right and if the 
industrial action restricts the freedom of movement, it has to be proportionate to the aims pursued. Ryanair 
considers the strikes to be disproportionate.
"France also hampers European airlines' fundamental right of freedom to conduct a business in other member 
states ... since, despite the fact that the industrial action in question takes place in France, the airlines cannot 
operate to and from the adjacent member states."
The commission declined to comment on the specific complaints until they had been analysed, but said: "The right 
of strike is a fundamental right of workers. We nonetheless recognise that delays or cancellation of flights have a 
negative impact for passengers and the entire EU economy. This is why in June 2017 we proposed non-binding 
good practices aiming to maintain the continuity of air traffic management in the event of disruption such as strikes."
France's Directorate General for Civil Aviation said: "The French constitution guarantees the right to strike. The 
French authorities are aware of the potential adverse impact on air traffic, and implement mechanisms to mitigate 
the consequences on passengers and airlines."
Additional reporting by Alex Barker in Brussels
'Europe's ATC providers are reaching the point of meltdown' Michael O'Leary, Ryanair CEO
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Carriers protest to EU over air traffic control strikes Airlines
Carriers protest to EU over air traffic control strikes; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 25, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 15
Length: 513 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Four of Europe's biggest airlines have filed complaints with the European Commission over air traffic controllers' 
strikes and shortages, saying they breach "the fundamental principle of free movement within the EU".
British Airways owner IAG and low-cost carriers easyJet, Ryanair and Wizz Air have taken co-ordinated action after 
cancelling thousands of flights this year because of the strikes.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair chief executive, said the disruptions were "unacceptable", adding: "Europe's ATC 
providers are reaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights being cancelled and delayed daily either 
because of ATC strikes or because Europe's ATC don't have enough staff."
On Monday, Ryanair's first-quarter results showed that the shortages and strikes had forced the airline to cancel 
more than 2,500 flights, affecting 450,000 passengers, and to pay out 40 per cent more in compensation than the 
same quarter last year.
According to Eurocontrol, which coordinates national air traffic control agencies, ATC strikes had delayed more than 
16,000 flights by June this year, hitting more than 2m passengers. Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, said: "The 
right to strike needs to be balanced against freedom of movement. It's not only customers flying in and out of 
France who are affected during French ATC strikes. Passengers on routes that overfly France, especially the large 
airspace that covers Marseille and the Mediterranean, are also subject to delays and massive disruptions."
Carriers protest to EU over air traffic control strikes Airlines
The airlines said their case was supported by a 1997 European Court of Justice ruling that French farmers had 
prevented Spanish farmers from exporting their goods into the EU.
Ryanair's complaint said the right to industrial action was fundamental, but "it is not an absolute right and if the 
industrial action restricts the freedom of movement, it has to be proportionate to the aims pursued. Ryanair 
considers the strikes to be disproportionate.
"France also hampers European airlines' fundamental right of freedom to conduct a business in other member 
states ... since, despite the fact that the industrial action in question takes place in France, the airlines cannot 
operate to and from the adjacent member states."
The commission declined to comment on the specific complaints until they had been analysed, but said: "The right 
of strike is a fundamental right of workers. We nonetheless recognise that delays or cancellation of flights have a 
negative impact for passengers and the entire EU economy. This is why in June 2017 we proposed non-binding 
good practices aiming to maintain the continuity of air traffic management in the event of disruption such as strikes."
France's Directorate General for Civil Aviation said: "The French constitution guarantees the right to strike. The 
French authorities are aware of the potential adverse impact on air traffic, and implement mechanisms to mitigate 
the consequences on passengers and airlines."
Additional reporting by Alex Barker in Brussels
'Europe's ATC providers are reaching the point of meltdown' Michael O'Leary, Ryanair CEO
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Carriers protest to EU over air traffic control strikes Airlines
Carriers protest to EU over air traffic control strikes; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 25, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 15
Length: 513 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Four of Europe's biggest airlines have filed complaints with the European Commission over air traffic controllers' 
strikes and shortages, saying they breach "the fundamental principle of free movement within the EU".
British Airways owner IAG and low-cost carriers easyJet, Ryanair and Wizz Air have taken co-ordinated action after 
cancelling thousands of flights this year because of the strikes.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair chief executive, said the disruptions were "unacceptable", adding: "Europe's ATC 
providers are reaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights being cancelled and delayed daily either 
because of ATC strikes or because Europe's ATC don't have enough staff."
On Monday, Ryanair's first-quarter results showed that the shortages and strikes had forced the airline to cancel 
more than 2,500 flights, affecting 450,000 passengers, and to pay out 40 per cent more in compensation than the 
same quarter last year.
According to Eurocontrol, which coordinates national air traffic control agencies, ATC strikes had delayed more than 
16,000 flights by June this year, hitting more than 2m passengers. Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, said: "The 
right to strike needs to be balanced against freedom of movement. It's not only customers flying in and out of 
France who are affected during French ATC strikes. Passengers on routes that overfly France, especially the large 
airspace that covers Marseille and the Mediterranean, are also subject to delays and massive disruptions."
Carriers protest to EU over air traffic control strikes Airlines
The airlines said their case was supported by a 1997 European Court of Justice ruling that French farmers had 
prevented Spanish farmers from exporting their goods into the EU.
Ryanair's complaint said the right to industrial action was fundamental, but "it is not an absolute right and if the 
industrial action restricts the freedom of movement, it has to be proportionate to the aims pursued. Ryanair 
considers the strikes to be disproportionate.
"France also hampers European airlines' fundamental right of freedom to conduct a business in other member 
states ... since, despite the fact that the industrial action in question takes place in France, the airlines cannot 
operate to and from the adjacent member states."
The commission declined to comment on the specific complaints until they had been analysed, but said: "The right 
of strike is a fundamental right of workers. We nonetheless recognise that delays or cancellation of flights have a 
negative impact for passengers and the entire EU economy. This is why in June 2017 we proposed non-binding 
good practices aiming to maintain the continuity of air traffic management in the event of disruption such as strikes."
France's Directorate General for Civil Aviation said: "The French constitution guarantees the right to strike. The 
French authorities are aware of the potential adverse impact on air traffic, and implement mechanisms to mitigate 
the consequences on passengers and airlines."
Additional reporting by Alex Barker in Brussels
'Europe's ATC providers are reaching the point of meltdown' Michael O'Leary, Ryanair CEO
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Street Color: Ryanair Holdings Cabin Crews Reportedly Go on Strike in 4 European Countries
Street Color: Ryanair Holdings Cabin Crews Reportedly Go on Strike in 4 
European Countries
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 25, 2018 Wednesday 12:08 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 54 words
Body
 (Street Color news is derived from real time chats with market professionals subscribed to the Ask Alyce Premium 
Chat service on Bloomberg and ICE IM. This information is believed to be from reliable sources but may include 
rumor and speculation. Accuracy is not guaranteed.)
Price: 105.12, Change: +1.60, Percent Change: +1.54
Load-Date: July 26, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYA ) Lowered to Reduce at AlphaValue
Ryanair (RYA) Lowered to Reduce at AlphaValue
American Banking and Market News
July 25, 2018 Wednesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 173 words
Body
Ryanair logo Ryanair (LON:RYA) was downgraded by stock analysts at AlphaValue to a "reduce" rating in a 
research note issued to investors on Wednesday. 
Separately, Liberum Capital lowered their price target on shares of Ryanair from GBX 21 ($0.28) to GBX 18.50 
($0.24) and set a "buy" rating on the stock in a research report on Wednesday, May 23rd. 
Ryanair opened at GBX 14.55 ($0.19) on Wednesday, according to Marketbeat.com . Ryanair has a twelve month 
low of GBX 13.99 ($0.19) and a twelve month high of GBX 19.78 ($0.26).  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: Should I invest in "strong buy" stocks?  
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Tuesday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Tuesday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 24, 2018 Tuesday 10:56 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 235 words
Body
 American Depository Receipts of European stocks were trading 1.10% higher at 140.17 on the Bank of New York 
Mellon Europe ADR Index on Tuesday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by pharmaceutical company Oasmia Pharmaceutical (OASM), and 
biotech firm Zealand Pharma (ZEAL), which rose 5.4% and 3% respectively. They were followed by semiconductor 
company STMicroelectronics (STM), and Koninklijke Philips Electronics (PHG), which were up 2.8% and 2.5%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by online dating site operator Spark Networks (LOV), and 
pharmaceutical firm Ascendis Pharma (ASND), which fell 5.9% and 1.6% respectively. They were followed by 
marketing firm Criteo (CRTO), and ASML (ASML), a manufacturer of chip-making equipment, which were down 
0.7% and 0.5%.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by Trinity Biotech (TRIB), and mining company BHP Billiton (BBL), 
which climbed 6%, followed by mining company Rio Tinto (RIO), and Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), which rose  
5.8% and 3.4% respectively. 
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by biopharmaceutical company Verona Pharma (VRNA), and airline 
operator Ryanair (RYAAY), which dropped 3.8% and 1.6% respectively. They were followed by biopharmaceutical 
firm Adaptimmune Therapeutics (ADAP), and natural gas distributor National Grid (NGG), which were off 1.4% and 
1.3%.
Price: 4.80, Change: +0.10, Percent Change: +2.13
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
European ADRs Move Higher in Tuesday Trading
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) vs. Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) Head to Head Analysis
Ryanair (RYAAY) vs. Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) Head to Head Analysis
American Banking and Market News
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 794 words
Body
Ryanair (NASDAQ: RYAAY) and Deutsche Lufthansa (OTCMKTS:DLAKY) are both large-cap transportation 
companies, but which is the better business? We will compare the two companies based on the strength of their 
institutional ownership, risk, earnings, profitability, analyst recommendations, dividends and valuation.  
Earnings & Valuation This table compares Ryanair and Deutsche Lufthansa's gross revenue, earnings per share 
and valuation.
Gross 
Revenue
Price/Sales 
Ratio
Net Income
Earnings Per 
Share
Price/Earnings 
Ratio
Ryanair
$8.37 billion
2.90
$1.70 billion
$7.05
14.68
Deutsche 
Lufthansa
$40.19 billion
0.29
$2.67 billion
$5.68
4.32
Deutsche Lufthansa has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. Deutsche Lufthansa is trading at a lower price-
to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. 
Volatility & Risk Ryanair has a beta of 0.67, suggesting that its share price is 33% less volatile than the S&P 500. 
Comparatively, Deutsche Lufthansa has a beta of 0.62, suggesting that its share price is 38% less volatile than the 
S&P 500. 
Insider & Institutional Ownership
43.8% of Ryanair shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 0.2% of Deutsche Lufthansa shares are 
held by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that large money managers, hedge 
funds and endowments believe a stock will outperform the market over the long term. 
Profitability
This table compares Ryanair and Deutsche Lufthansa's net margins, return on equity and return on assets.
Net Margins
Return on Equity
Return on Assets
Ryanair
20.13%
31.73%
12.17%
Deutsche Lufthansa
6.59%
27.63%
6.25%
Analyst Recommendations
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) vs. Deutsche Lufthansa (DLAKY) Head to Head Analysis
This is a summary of recent ratings for Ryanair and Deutsche Lufthansa, as provided by MarketBeat.com. 
Sell Ratings
Hold Ratings
Buy Ratings
Strong Buy 
Ratings
Rating Score
Ryanair
1
5
2
0
2.13
Deutsche 
Lufthansa
1
3
3
0
2.29
Dividends
Deutsche Lufthansa pays an annual dividend of $0.67 per share and has a dividend yield of 2.7%. Ryanair does not 
pay a dividend. Deutsche Lufthansa pays out 11.8% of its earnings in the form of a dividend.  
Summary
Ryanair beats Deutsche Lufthansa on 9 of the 14 factors compared between the two stocks. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair logo Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such 
as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel 
insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In 
addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car 
parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 
737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving 
approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, 
Ireland. 
About Deutsche Lufthansa
Deutsche Lufthansa logo Deutsche Lufthansa AG operates as an aviation company in Germany and internationally. 
It operates through Network Airlines, Point-to-Point Airlines, Logistics, MRO, Catering segments. The Network 
Airlines segment offers passenger services through a route network of 263 destinations in 86 countries. The Point-
to-Point Airlines segment provides passenger services through a route network of 192 destinations in 62 countries. 
The Logistics segment offers a range of cargo transport services for various cargos, including live animals, valuable 
cargo, mail, dangerous goods, and temperature-sensitive cargo. This segment serves approximately 300 
destinations in approximately 100 countries. The MRO segment provides maintenance, repair, and overhaul 
services for civilian commercial aircraft. It serves airlines and aircraft leasing companies, operators of VIP jets, and 
public-sector clients. The Catering segment offers catering, in-flight sales and in-flight entertainment, in-flight 
service equipment, and the associated logistics, as well as consulting services and operating airport lounges. The 
company also provides consulting and IT services for the aviation industry; training courses in simulator training, 
emergency and service drill, and e-learning; business travel management solutions in the area of payment and 
analysis of corporate travel; and aviation and transport insurance products, as well as insurance brokerage, 
reinsurance, and risk management services. As of December 31, 2017, it had a fleet of 728 aircraft. Deutsche 
Lufthansa AG is headquartered in Cologne, Germany.    
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
Tuesday Papers: Alphabet shrugs off EU’s record €4.3bn fine
Tuesday Papers: Alphabet shrugs off EU’s record €4.3bn fine
Citywire
July 24, 2018 Tuesday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 778 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And US banks have urged UK to cut corporate taxes to stop Brexit exodus.
Body
Top stories
•
The Times: Google’s owner Alphabet smashed Wall Street’s forecasts with its second-quarter results 
despite a record fine from the European Commission wiping out nearly two thirds of its profit.
•
Financial Times: US banks are urging the British government to cut corporate taxes and red tape to stop 
financial assets and jobs pouring out of the UK after Brexit.
•
Financial Times: Fears of global trade war scared markets with European investors pulling cash from 
mutual funds at the fastest rates in almost five years in June, withdrawing €38.3 billion.
•
The Daily Telegraph: British businesses with foreign owners are up to three-times as productive as those 
with only UK investors, according to official figures.
•
Financial Times: Ryanair has threatened striking workers that they might lose their jobs as the budget 
airlines registered a 22% plunge in pre-tax profits in its first quarter.
Business and economics
•
Financial Times: British government is preparing plans for an increased scrutiny of foreign takeovers in the 
UK industries that present national security concerns.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Shares in McColl’s dropped 14% after it reported a 49% slump in pre-tax profits to 
£2.3 million for the 26 weeks to 27 May, as sales at its 700 stores suffered when the wholesaler Palmer & 
Harvey plunged into administration last November.
•
The Guardian: Telsa stocks fell almost 5% after the electric automaker was reported to have asked some 
US suppliers to return payments to the money-losing company.
•
Financial Times: Shares in Julius Baer registered a sharp drop after the bank said global trade tensions 
were worrying clients, despite reporting 18% rise in pre-tax profits in the first half.
•
The Guardian: British electric car drivers face increased costs for charging their vehicles during peak 
hours, in a move designed to lessen their burden on the electricity network.
•
Financial Times: Volkswagen board does not want to fire Audi's CEO Ruper Stadler after his arrest over 
the emission cheating scandal.
Tuesday Papers: Alphabet shrugs off EU’s record €4.3bn fine
•
Financial Times: On of Fiat Chrysler’s most seasoned executive Alfresi Altavilla is leaving the company 
after being passed over for the chief executive’s role.
•
The Times: Serco has filed a legal challenge to Capita’s deal to operate British military fire stations, stalling 
the biggest placing of a public sector contract in the hands of a private sector operator since the collapse of 
Carillion.
•
Daily Mail: Barclays is creating 2,500 jobs in Glasgow at a new technology hub – doubling its Scottish 
workforce.
•
Financial Times: KPMG has appointed risk management chief to oversee both its risk and legal operations 
in the UK, as the Big Four auditor grapples with a string of accounting scandals.
•
Financial Times: AngloGold Ashanti has appointed Kelvin Dushnisky, a senior director from rival Barrick 
Gold, as its new CEO.
•
The Guardian: Offshore owners of British property will be required to reveal their true identities or face 
imprisonment and unlimited fines under draft laws that aim to end the UK’s reputation as a high-risk 
jurisdiction for money laundering.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Facebook is investing in two new buildings in King's Cross to double its UK office 
capacity.
•
The Daily Telegraph: The UK government is expected to announce more than half a billion pounds worth of 
financial support over the next decade under energy plans to ensure nearly a third of Britain’s power is 
generated by offshore wind turbines by 2030.
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): SELL WPP; BUT Sthree.
•
The Times: Prime Opportunities Investment Group, based in Los Angeles, has withdrawn its bid for IWG, 
leaving Starwood, TDR Capital and Terra Firma in the running.
•
The Times: Hammerson, which owns or has assets in some of the largest shopping centres in Britain, has 
sold Imperial Retail Park in Bristol and the Fife Central Retail Park in Kirkcaldy for £164 million.
•
The Times: Stonegate Pub Company announced separate deals to acquire Be At One, the cocktail bar 
operator, for an estimated £50 million, and 15 bars in London from Novus Leisure for about £30 million.
•
Financial Times: China Tower Corporation, the world’s largest telecommunications tower group by 
revenue, is seeking to raise up to $8.68 billion from Hong Kong IPO.
•
Financial Times: Dan Loeb’s activist hedge fund Third Point has taken a stake in Paypal and is projecting 
that the shares will surge 40% within 18 months.
•
Daily Mail (Comment): Collateral damage from Lehman collapse suggests bailouts aren't so bad.
•
The Times (Comment): The drift away from capitalism should be a cause for concern.
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): Tesco could pay the price with its attempt to take on no-frills rivals.
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
KPMG 's chief risk officer must become an expectation manager
KPMG's chief risk officer must become an expectation manager
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 17
Length: 497 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
KPMG Careers Job title: Chief Risk Officer. Role: As part of a long-term plan to invest in our risk management 
processes - and not in any way a reaction to seven regulatory probes into our UK audits, a sudden loss of clients 
following a South African corruption scandal, recent Bank of England concerns over our financial strength, or calls 
for our break up - we are seeking a Chief Risk Officer, to oversee our legal and risk management function. Skills 
and experience: Experience in delivering difficult messages to C-suite executives; ability to work under pressure. 
'Our deal': Real responsibilities and opportunities to grow professionally.
Tempted? Given the series of risks KPMG has failed to manage of late - from signing off Carillion's accounts to 
doing work linked to South Africa's Gupta family - this job looks about as attractive as Ryanair Customer Services 
Manager, Thames Water Leak Inspector, or WH Smith Interior Designer. But Mary O'Connor, a lawyer and former 
regulator in both the UK and US, evidently does not think so. Or really does want to grow professionally. Because 
she is to become the first person to run both KPMG's UK risk and legal functions, from next month.
KPMG insists her appointment is unrelated to recent professional and financial worries, which led the accounting 
watchdog to warn of "an unacceptable deterioration" in the firm's audit work, and the Bank of England to ask other 
institutions about its strength. But if it is not a reaction to past problems, then it is clearly a reaction to the likely 
solutions - as UK chairman, Bill Michael, hinted. "We are operating in a period of significant change, and the risks 
we are facing are evolving," he said. "Societal expectations of large businesses are also shifting." That suggests Ms 
O'Connor's role may shift, too.
KPMG 's chief risk officer must become an expectation manager
Risk management now includes the risk of KPMG being broken up. After a parliamentary report called on the UK 
competition authority to consider breaking up the Big Four accountants, KMPG and others admitted they had 
contingency plans for this. As a former regulator, Ms O'Connor will doubtless be expected to focus her risk 
assessments on this.
Risk management may also include preparing for financial stress. While Mr Michael says KPMG is "in robust 
financial health", the FT Lex column has suggested BoE attention could force it to address systemic risk, as banks 
now do through "living wills".
Risk management for auditors might even become something very different in a few years' time: ensuring the 
accuracy of views on the risk of corporate failures. KPMG has admitted that criticism of its audits of HBOS and 
other failed companies "highlighted a gap between what society expects of an audit and what an audit has been 
designed to do". Mr Michael's use of the phrase "societal expectations" to explain Ms O'Connor's appointment is 
surely no coincidence. This is a management role that will be all about expectation management. KMPG must hope 
it is a long-term contract.
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair trading hits turbulence in first quarter
Ryanair trading hits turbulence in first quarter
City A.M.
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 327 words
Byline: JOSH MINES
Body
RYANAIR yesterday said trading hit turbulence in the first quarter as lower fares and higher operating costs sent 
profits into decline.
Profits fell 20 per cent in quarter one to (EURO)319m (£284.7m) as lower fares, higher oil prices and rising pilot 
costs hit the business.
This is in spite of revenue rising nine per cent to  2.1bn, as traffic grew seven per cent in the period, up to 37.6m 
passengers. The company's full-year guidance remains unchanged at (EURO)1.25bn to (EURO)1.35bn. Ryanair 
was hit by numerous issues in the first few months of the year.
Strikes by its staff have impacted business, as two were carried out by Irish pilots in July.
Cabin crew in Spain, Portugal and Belgium are threatening to walk out later on this week, and Ryanair said this 
could have a detrimental impact on trading through damaging customer confidence.
The firm also said it is concerned of the impact a hard "no-deal" Brexit could have on its business.
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary said: "As previously guided, quarter one profit after tax fell by 20 per cent to 
(EURO)319m due to lower fares, the absence of half of Easter in the quarter, higher oil prices and pilot costs.
"Traffic grew seven per cent to 37.6m, despite over 2,500 flight cancellations caused by staff shortages and strikes. 
Ryanair's lower fares delivered an industry leading 96 per cent load factor."
Earlier this month, Ryanair hit out over French air traffic control strikes once again, saying they proved particularly 
turbulent in June.
Ryanair trading hits turbulence in first quarter
Ryanair's marketing boss reiterated the airline's calls for the European Commission to take "urgent action" to help 
tackle disruption from strikes.
Ryanair shares are almost 25 percent below an all-time high of (EURO)19.38 hit last August, before a rostering 
problem forced the airline to cancel 20,000 flights. In the aftermath, Ryanair narrowly averted widespread strikes 
before Christmas by deciding to recognise trade unions for the first time in its 32-year history.
Graphic
 
Higher costs, lower fares and strike action all affected the budget airline
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair warns strikers of job losses as rising costs cause profits to nosedive
Ryanair warns strikers of job losses as rising costs cause profits to 
nosedive
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 13
Length: 331 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair threatened striking workers with job losses as the budget airline reported a 22 per cent fall in pre-tax profit 
in its first quarter.
The European carrier has been hit by a spate of strikes across continental Europe since it agreed to recognise and 
negotiate with unions in December. Irish pilots are due to strike today and cabin crew in Belgium, Portugal and 
Spain tomorrow and on Thursday.
Michael O'Leary, chief executive, warned of cuts to the airline's winter schedule if strikes continued, "which may 
lead to fleet reductions at disrupted bases and job losses".
Pre-tax profit fell to (EURO)345m, in part because staff costs rose a third to (EURO)245m as Ryanair offered pay 
increases to pilots and other staff. Unit cost, a standard measurement for the industry, rose 10 per cent in the 
quarter - Ryanair had guided 9 per cent for the year.
Despite the increased costs, revenue edged up 9 per cent to (EURO)2.1bn, driven by growth in ancillary charges 
such as reserved seating and priority boarding. Passenger numbers increased 7 per cent to 37.6m. Ryanair left 
guidance for fullyear profit unchanged at (EURO)1.25bn-(EURO)1.35bn. Rival easyJet last week raised its 
guidance from £530m-£580m to £550m-£590m. Ryanair's shares closed down 6 per cent.
Ryanair warns strikers of job losses as rising costs cause profits to nosedive
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said he was a "surprised" by the negative reaction since the data were 
showing "continued good trading in short haul over the next six months". He added that it was likely Ryanair would 
face strikes for a couple of years.
Shortages of, and strikes by, air traffic controllers forced the airline to cancel more than 2,500 flights, affecting 
450,000 passengers, and to pay 40 per cent more in compensation. Punctuality fell from 89 per cent to 75 per cent.
Ryanair's fuel bill rose 23 per cent to (EURO)631m, despite being 90 per cent hedged. Jet fuel had risen 47 per 
cent to $88 a barrel in the past year and the airline forecast a full-year increase of (EURO)430m in its fuel bill.
Lex page 12
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Market drags as cyclicals and airlines slide LONDON REPORT
Market drags as cyclicals and airlines slide; LONDON REPORT
City A.M.
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 18
Length: 350 words
Body
THE UK'S top share index fell yesterday as trade tensions weighed on cyclical stocks while results from Ryanair 
weighed on the broader sector.
With attention also focused on the unfolding earnings season, the bluechip FTSE 100 index was down 0.3 per cent 
at 7,655.79 points at the close, in line with a broadly negative European market.
A stronger pound earlier in the session weighed on the FTSE's dollar-earning exporters, with large consumer 
staples including British American Tobacco, Diageo and Reckitt Benckiser taking the most points off the index. 
However, the pound gave up early gains to trade lower.
Cyclical stocks were also on the back foot, with financials and miners broadly lower.
These stocks, which tend to experience relatively bigger price swings, have come under pressure as risk appetite 
has been dented by uncertainty over the outlook for global trade.
A US threat to slap tariffs on all $500bn (£382bn) of imported goods from China rattled markets on Friday.
Equity strategists at JP Morgan said that they were sticking with their "underweight" view on UK stocks.
"The political situation will likely remain challenging, with a rather high probability of market-adverse scenarios 
materialising... which in turn could hurt corporate sentiment," they said in a note.
Corporate results in the secondquarter earnings season also dampened the mood. Ireland's Ryanair said that 
average fares would be lower than expected during the summer because of intense competition and uncertainty 
caused by strikes.
Market drags as cyclicals and airlines slide LONDON REPORT
Ryanair's shares tumbled 6.7 per cent while British peers Easyjet and International Consolidated Airlines Group, 
which owns British Airways, both fell more than 1.5 per cent.
McColl's Retail Group dropped 13.8 per cent to the bottom of the smallcaps index after the convenience retailer 
gave a muted forecast and reported a drop in first-half like-forlike sales.
TOP RISERS 7,700 1. Ocado up 5.54 per cent 2. WPP up 3.12 per cent 3. DCC up 2.14 per cent 7,650 7,600 TOP 
FALLERS 7,550 1. Taylor Wimpey down 3.95 per cent 2. Fresnillo down 2.98 per cent 3. Barratt Dev. down 2.97 
per cent 17
Graphic
 
British Airways owner IAG lost steam on the FTSE as rival Ryanair fell
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair : better to bitter Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Ryanair: better to bitter; Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 313 words
Body
Loyalty has a price, as Ryanair has been finding out. Low prices alone could not guarantee customers would keep 
coming back. The Irish airline launched its Always Getting Better programme to improve its muchcriticised service 
standards a few years ago. Extra costs became apparent yesterday in higher pay for pilots and crew helping deliver 
service upgrades. Fuel costs had also risen.
That combination hit home in firstquarter results yesterday. Lower fares, higher labour bills and growing fuel costs 
contributed to a poor set of figures. Post-tax profits dropped a fifth to (EURO)319m, not including the small impact 
of a loss from associate airline Laudamotion.
Ryanair had warned of the hit to profits and managed to beat analysts' estimates. The shares declined 6 per cent 
anyway.
Revenues per "guest", as Ryanair now terms bums on seats, actually rose. This is because more flyers are opting 
to pay up to guarantee seats or to board early. At 13 times earnings, the market will happily pay for these boosts 
too - more than it will shell out for most of Ryanair's peers.
But hang on. Nicer to their customers and negotiating with unions? Shareholders might be forgiven for double-
checking their shares to see if they have the right company. The impact of pay rises on profitability remains minor. 
Labour only accounts for about 12 per cent of Ryanair's costs. But if dealing with unionised labour forces becomes 
the norm - and that looks the case - then there is risk to efficiency longer term. In a tight labour market, where 
experienced pilots can earn (EURO)300,000 a year working in China, Ryanair has little choice but to play nicely.
Ryanair : better to bitter Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
This could mean throttling back on expansion. Seat growth is forecast at 7 per cent annually to 2020 by Bernstein. 
Always Demanding More might be the slogan if it describes the workforce. In that case, shareholders are right to 
feel nervous.
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair : better to bitter Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Ryanair: better to bitter; Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, Middle East Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 313 words
Body
Loyalty has a price, as Ryanair has been finding out. Low prices alone could not guarantee customers would keep 
coming back. The Irish airline launched its Always Getting Better programme to improve its muchcriticised service 
standards a few years ago. Extra costs became apparent yesterday in higher pay for pilots and crew helping deliver 
service upgrades. Fuel costs had also risen.
That combination hit home in firstquarter results yesterday. Lower fares, higher labour bills and growing fuel costs 
contributed to a poor set of figures. Post-tax profits dropped a fifth to (EURO)319m, not including the small impact 
of a loss from associate airline Laudamotion.
Ryanair had warned of the hit to profits and managed to beat analysts' estimates. The shares declined 6 per cent 
anyway.
Revenues per "guest", as Ryanair now terms bums on seats, actually rose. This is because more flyers are opting 
to pay up to guarantee seats or to board early. At 13 times earnings, the market will happily pay for these boosts 
too - more than it will shell out for most of Ryanair's peers.
But hang on. Nicer to their customers and negotiating with unions? Shareholders might be forgiven for double-
checking their shares to see if they have the right company. The impact of pay rises on profitability remains minor. 
Labour only accounts for about 12 per cent of Ryanair's costs. But if dealing with unionised labour forces becomes 
the norm - and that looks the case - then there is risk to efficiency longer term. In a tight labour market, where 
experienced pilots can earn (EURO)300,000 a year working in China, Ryanair has little choice but to play nicely.
Ryanair : better to bitter Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
This could mean throttling back on expansion. Seat growth is forecast at 7 per cent annually to 2020 by Bernstein. 
Always Demanding More might be the slogan if it describes the workforce. In that case, shareholders are right to 
feel nervous.
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair : better to bitter Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Ryanair: better to bitter; Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; OPINION COLUMN; Pg. 10
Length: 313 words
Body
Loyalty has a price, as Ryanair has been finding out. Low prices alone could not guarantee customers would keep 
coming back. The Irish airline launched its Always Getting Better programme to improve its muchcriticised service 
standards a few years ago. Extra costs became apparent yesterday in higher pay for pilots and crew helping deliver 
service upgrades. Fuel costs had also risen.
That combination hit home in firstquarter results yesterday. Lower fares, higher labour bills and growing fuel costs 
contributed to a poor set of figures. Post-tax profits dropped a fifth to (EURO)319m, not including the small impact 
of a loss from associate airline Laudamotion.
Ryanair had warned of the hit to profits and managed to beat analysts' estimates. The shares declined 6 per cent 
anyway.
Revenues per "guest", as Ryanair now terms bums on seats, actually rose. This is because more flyers are opting 
to pay up to guarantee seats or to board early. At 13 times earnings, the market will happily pay for these boosts 
too - more than it will shell out for most of Ryanair's peers.
But hang on. Nicer to their customers and negotiating with unions? Shareholders might be forgiven for double-
checking their shares to see if they have the right company. The impact of pay rises on profitability remains minor. 
Labour only accounts for about 12 per cent of Ryanair's costs. But if dealing with unionised labour forces becomes 
the norm - and that looks the case - then there is risk to efficiency longer term. In a tight labour market, where 
experienced pilots can earn (EURO)300,000 a year working in China, Ryanair has little choice but to play nicely.
Ryanair : better to bitter Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
This could mean throttling back on expansion. Seat growth is forecast at 7 per cent annually to 2020 by Bernstein. 
Always Demanding More might be the slogan if it describes the workforce. In that case, shareholders are right to 
feel nervous.
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair : better to bitter Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Ryanair: better to bitter; Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; OPINION COLUMN; Pg. 12
Length: 313 words
Body
Loyalty has a price, as Ryanair has been finding out. Low prices alone could not guarantee customers would keep 
coming back. The Irish airline launched its Always Getting Better programme to improve its muchcriticised service 
standards a few years ago. Extra costs became apparent yesterday in higher pay for pilots and crew helping deliver 
service upgrades. Fuel costs had also risen.
That combination hit home in firstquarter results yesterday. Lower fares, higher labour bills and growing fuel costs 
contributed to a poor set of figures. Post-tax profits dropped a fifth to (EURO)319m, not including the small impact 
of a loss from associate airline Laudamotion.
Ryanair had warned of the hit to profits and managed to beat analysts' estimates. The shares declined 6 per cent 
anyway.
Revenues per "guest", as Ryanair now terms bums on seats, actually rose. This is because more flyers are opting 
to pay up to guarantee seats or to board early. At 13 times earnings, the market will happily pay for these boosts 
too - more than it will shell out for most of Ryanair's peers.
But hang on. Nicer to their customers and negotiating with unions? Shareholders might be forgiven for double-
checking their shares to see if they have the right company. The impact of pay rises on profitability remains minor. 
Labour only accounts for about 12 per cent of Ryanair's costs. But if dealing with unionised labour forces becomes 
the norm - and that looks the case - then there is risk to efficiency longer term. In a tight labour market, where 
experienced pilots can earn (EURO)300,000 a year working in China, Ryanair has little choice but to play nicely.
Ryanair : better to bitter Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
This could mean throttling back on expansion. Seat growth is forecast at 7 per cent annually to 2020 by Bernstein. 
Always Demanding More might be the slogan if it describes the workforce. In that case, shareholders are right to 
feel nervous.
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair : better to bitter Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Ryanair: better to bitter; Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; OPINION COLUMN; Pg. 10
Length: 313 words
Body
Loyalty has a price, as Ryanair has been finding out. Low prices alone could not guarantee customers would keep 
coming back. The Irish airline launched its Always Getting Better programme to improve its muchcriticised service 
standards a few years ago. Extra costs became apparent yesterday in higher pay for pilots and crew helping deliver 
service upgrades. Fuel costs had also risen.
That combination hit home in firstquarter results yesterday. Lower fares, higher labour bills and growing fuel costs 
contributed to a poor set of figures. Post-tax profits dropped a fifth to (EURO)319m, not including the small impact 
of a loss from associate airline Laudamotion.
Ryanair had warned of the hit to profits and managed to beat analysts' estimates. The shares declined 6 per cent 
anyway.
Revenues per "guest", as Ryanair now terms bums on seats, actually rose. This is because more flyers are opting 
to pay up to guarantee seats or to board early. At 13 times earnings, the market will happily pay for these boosts 
too - more than it will shell out for most of Ryanair's peers.
But hang on. Nicer to their customers and negotiating with unions? Shareholders might be forgiven for double-
checking their shares to see if they have the right company. The impact of pay rises on profitability remains minor. 
Labour only accounts for about 12 per cent of Ryanair's costs. But if dealing with unionised labour forces becomes 
the norm - and that looks the case - then there is risk to efficiency longer term. In a tight labour market, where 
experienced pilots can earn (EURO)300,000 a year working in China, Ryanair has little choice but to play nicely.
Ryanair : better to bitter Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
This could mean throttling back on expansion. Seat growth is forecast at 7 per cent annually to 2020 by Bernstein. 
Always Demanding More might be the slogan if it describes the workforce. In that case, shareholders are right to 
feel nervous.
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair warns striking staff of job losses Airlines ; Risk of further industrial action as quarterly pre-tax profit 
suffers 22% drop
Ryanair warns striking staff of job losses; Airlines ; Risk of further industrial 
action as quarterly pre-tax profit suffers 22% drop
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 14
Length: 493 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair threatened striking workers with job losses as the budget airline reported a 22 per cent fall in pre-tax profit 
in its first quarter.
The European carrier has been hit by a spate of strikes across continental Europe since it agreed to recognise 
unions in December and entered negotiations with them. Irish pilots are due to strike today and cabin crew in 
Belgium, Portugal and Spain tomorrow and on Thursday.
Michael O'Leary, chief executive, warned of cuts to the airline's winter schedule if strikes continued, "which may 
lead to fleet reductions at disrupted bases and job losses".
Pre-tax profit fell to (EURO)345m, in part because staff costs rose a third to (EURO)245m as Ryanair offered pay 
increases to pilots and other staff. Unit cost, a standard measurement for the industry, rose 10 per cent in the 
quarter - previously Ryanair had guided 9 per cent for the whole year.
Despite the increased costs, revenue edged up 9 per cent to (EURO)2.1bn, driven by growth in ancillary revenues 
such as reserved seating and priority boarding. Passenger numbers increased 7 per cent to 37.6m.
Ryanair left guidance for full-year profit unchanged at (EURO)1.25bn-(EURO)1.35bn. This contrasts with rival 
easyJet, which last week raised its full-year pre-tax profit guidance from £530m-£580m to £550m-£590m.
Ryanair warns striking staff of job losses Airlines ; Risk of further industrial action as quarterly pre-tax profit 
suffers 22% drop
Ryanair shares were down 4.4 per cent in mid-morning trading, recovering slightly from an initial 6 per cent fall. 
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said he was a "little bit surprised" by the market's negative reaction since the 
data were showing "continued good trading in short haul over the next six months". But he also said it was likely 
Ryanair would face strikes for a couple of years.
Shortages of and strikes by air traffic controllers forced the airline to cancel more than 2,500 flights, affecting 
450,000 passengers, and to pay 40 per cent more in compensation than the same quarter last year. Punctuality 
was down from 89 per cent to 75 per cent.
Mr O'Leary said ATC shortages and strikes were causing "widespread damage to airline schedules this summer" 
and he called the French ATCs the "worst offenders", having been on strike for nine weekends during the quarter. 
He restated his commitment to file a legal complaint with the European Commission over ATC strikes.
Ryanair's fuel bill rose 23 per cent to (EURO)631m, despite being 90 per cent hedged. Jet fuel had risen 47 per 
cent to $88 a barrel in the past year and the airline forecast a full-year increase of (EURO)430m in its fuel bill.
The airline faced challenges on the revenue side, as its average fare price fell 4 per cent to below (EURO)39 
because of the "World Cup, the northern European heatwave, and customer uncertainty about pilot strikes", said Mr 
O'Leary.
Ryanair, which is in a legal battle with Lufthansa on its takeover of LaudaMotion, said the Austria carrier would lose 
"approximately (EURO)150m in its first very difficult year". It had guided (EURO)100m. See Lex
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair warns striking staff of job losses Airlines ; Risk of further industrial action as quarterly pre-tax profit 
suffers 22% drop
Ryanair warns striking staff of job losses; Airlines ; Risk of further industrial 
action as quarterly pre-tax profit suffers 22% drop
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 14
Length: 493 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair threatened striking workers with job losses as the budget airline reported a 22 per cent fall in pre-tax profit 
in its first quarter.
The European carrier has been hit by a spate of strikes across continental Europe since it agreed to recognise 
unions in December and entered negotiations with them. Irish pilots are due to strike today and cabin crew in 
Belgium, Portugal and Spain tomorrow and on Thursday.
Michael O'Leary, chief executive, warned of cuts to the airline's winter schedule if strikes continued, "which may 
lead to fleet reductions at disrupted bases and job losses".
Pre-tax profit fell to (EURO)345m, in part because staff costs rose a third to (EURO)245m as Ryanair offered pay 
increases to pilots and other staff. Unit cost, a standard measurement for the industry, rose 10 per cent in the 
quarter - previously Ryanair had guided 9 per cent for the whole year.
Despite the increased costs, revenue edged up 9 per cent to (EURO)2.1bn, driven by growth in ancillary revenues 
such as reserved seating and priority boarding. Passenger numbers increased 7 per cent to 37.6m.
Ryanair left guidance for full-year profit unchanged at (EURO)1.25bn-(EURO)1.35bn. This contrasts with rival 
easyJet, which last week raised its full-year pre-tax profit guidance from £530m-£580m to £550m-£590m.
Ryanair warns striking staff of job losses Airlines ; Risk of further industrial action as quarterly pre-tax profit 
suffers 22% drop
Ryanair shares were down 4.4 per cent in mid-morning trading, recovering slightly from an initial 6 per cent fall. 
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said he was a "little bit surprised" by the market's negative reaction since the 
data were showing "continued good trading in short haul over the next six months". But he also said it was likely 
Ryanair would face strikes for a couple of years.
Shortages of and strikes by air traffic controllers forced the airline to cancel more than 2,500 flights, affecting 
450,000 passengers, and to pay 40 per cent more in compensation than the same quarter last year. Punctuality 
was down from 89 per cent to 75 per cent.
Mr O'Leary said ATC shortages and strikes were causing "widespread damage to airline schedules this summer" 
and he called the French ATCs the "worst offenders", having been on strike for nine weekends during the quarter. 
He restated his commitment to file a legal complaint with the European Commission over ATC strikes.
Ryanair's fuel bill rose 23 per cent to (EURO)631m, despite being 90 per cent hedged. Jet fuel had risen 47 per 
cent to $88 a barrel in the past year and the airline forecast a full-year increase of (EURO)430m in its fuel bill.
The airline faced challenges on the revenue side, as its average fare price fell 4 per cent to below (EURO)39 
because of the "World Cup, the northern European heatwave, and customer uncertainty about pilot strikes", said Mr 
O'Leary.
Ryanair, which is in a legal battle with Lufthansa on its takeover of LaudaMotion, said the Austria carrier would lose 
"approximately (EURO)150m in its first very difficult year". It had guided (EURO)100m. See Lex
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair warns striking staff of job losses Airlines ; Risk of further industrial action as quarterly pre-tax profit 
suffers 22% drop
Ryanair warns striking staff of job losses; Airlines ; Risk of further industrial 
action as quarterly pre-tax profit suffers 22% drop
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 14
Length: 493 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair threatened striking workers with job losses as the budget airline reported a 22 per cent fall in pre-tax profit 
in its first quarter.
The European carrier has been hit by a spate of strikes across continental Europe since it agreed to recognise 
unions in December and entered negotiations with them. Irish pilots are due to strike today and cabin crew in 
Belgium, Portugal and Spain tomorrow and on Thursday.
Michael O'Leary, chief executive, warned of cuts to the airline's winter schedule if strikes continued, "which may 
lead to fleet reductions at disrupted bases and job losses".
Pre-tax profit fell to (EURO)345m, in part because staff costs rose a third to (EURO)245m as Ryanair offered pay 
increases to pilots and other staff. Unit cost, a standard measurement for the industry, rose 10 per cent in the 
quarter - previously Ryanair had guided 9 per cent for the whole year.
Despite the increased costs, revenue edged up 9 per cent to (EURO)2.1bn, driven by growth in ancillary revenues 
such as reserved seating and priority boarding. Passenger numbers increased 7 per cent to 37.6m.
Ryanair left guidance for full-year profit unchanged at (EURO)1.25bn-(EURO)1.35bn. This contrasts with rival 
easyJet, which last week raised its full-year pre-tax profit guidance from £530m-£580m to £550m-£590m.
Ryanair warns striking staff of job losses Airlines ; Risk of further industrial action as quarterly pre-tax profit 
suffers 22% drop
Ryanair shares were down 4.4 per cent in mid-morning trading, recovering slightly from an initial 6 per cent fall. 
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said he was a "little bit surprised" by the market's negative reaction since the 
data were showing "continued good trading in short haul over the next six months". But he also said it was likely 
Ryanair would face strikes for a couple of years.
Shortages of and strikes by air traffic controllers forced the airline to cancel more than 2,500 flights, affecting 
450,000 passengers, and to pay 40 per cent more in compensation than the same quarter last year. Punctuality 
was down from 89 per cent to 75 per cent.
Mr O'Leary said ATC shortages and strikes were causing "widespread damage to airline schedules this summer" 
and he called the French ATCs the "worst offenders", having been on strike for nine weekends during the quarter. 
He restated his commitment to file a legal complaint with the European Commission over ATC strikes.
Ryanair's fuel bill rose 23 per cent to (EURO)631m, despite being 90 per cent hedged. Jet fuel had risen 47 per 
cent to $88 a barrel in the past year and the airline forecast a full-year increase of (EURO)430m in its fuel bill.
The airline faced challenges on the revenue side, as its average fare price fell 4 per cent to below (EURO)39 
because of the "World Cup, the northern European heatwave, and customer uncertainty about pilot strikes", said Mr 
O'Leary.
Ryanair, which is in a legal battle with Lufthansa on its takeover of LaudaMotion, said the Austria carrier would lose 
"approximately (EURO)150m in its first very difficult year". It had guided (EURO)100m. See Lex
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Shares Down 8.6% Following Weak Earnings
Ryanair (RYAAY) Shares Down 8.6% Following Weak Earnings
DailyPolitical
July 24, 2018 Tuesday 6:11 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 619 words
Body
Jul 23, 2018( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) were down 8.6% during mid-day trading on Monday after the company announced weaker than 
expected quarterly earnings. The stock traded as low as $105.35 and last traded at $106.70. Approximately 
781,689 shares traded hands during mid-day trading, an increase of 154% from the average daily volume of 
307,827 shares. The stock had previously closed at $116.70. The transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for 
the quarter, beating analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion 
during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. 
Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. Several equities analysts recently issued 
reports on the company. Zacks Investment Research[1] upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and 
set a $137.00 price objective for the company in a research report on Thursday, March 29th. BidaskClub upgraded 
Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a research report on Friday, May 25th. Deutsche Bank 
lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas 
lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, 
Exane BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on 
Thursday, June 7th. Three equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have issued a hold 
rating and three have given a buy rating to the company. The stock has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an 
average target price of $138.00.A number of large investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in 
RYAAY. Elkfork Partners LLC acquired a new position in Ryanair during the 4th quarter worth approximately 
$166,000. Glenmede Trust Co. NA boosted its position in Ryanair by 2,506.9% during the 4th quarter. Glenmede 
Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $195,000 after acquiring an 
additional 1,805 shares during the last quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC acquired a new position in Ryanair 
during the 1st quarter worth approximately $248,000. Perigon Wealth Management LLC acquired a new position in 
Ryanair during the 1st quarter worth approximately $254,000. Finally, Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. 
boosted its position in Ryanair by 35.5% during the 4th quarter. Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. now 
owns 2,754 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $287,000 after acquiring an additional 721 shares 
during the last quarter. 43.76% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors. The company 
has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23. The stock has a market 
capitalization of $27.33 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 15.13 and a beta of 0.67. Ryanair Company 
ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, 
the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-
flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Shares Down 8.6% Following Weak Earnings
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.Recommended 
Story: 
Short 
Selling 
Stocks 
and 
Day 
Traders 
[2] 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/short-selling-stocks-explanation/ 
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair chief in threat [...] Briefing
Ryanair chief in threat [...]; Briefing
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 40 words
Body
? Ryanair chief in threat to strikers' jobs Michael O'Leary has threatened striking workers with job losses as the 
budget airline reported a 22 per cent fall in pre-tax profit, warning that its winter schedule was at risk.- PAGE 13; 
LEX, PAGE 12
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
London Leading the FTSE 100 [...]
London Leading the FTSE 100 [...]
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 18
Length: 197 words
Body
London Leading the FTSE 100 risers, Ocado hit a new record high after management of the grocery delivery 
specialist met US investors. The meetings were said to have eased concerns about how much Ocado would need 
to fund start-up costs on its landmark deal with Kroger with management highlighting that the US retailer would 
have a tax incentive to own new distribution centres outright.
News that WPP was in talks to sell a minority stake in its China division to Alibaba, Tencent and China Media 
helped the shares rally from a near three-month low. "WPP and agencies have struggled of late in China due partly 
to the clout of Alibaba and Tencent in the market," said analysts at Merrill Lynch. "A stronger partnership with these 
two players may lead to better local trends."
Ryanair led the airlines lower after reducing its fare-growth guidance for the current quarter.
BT Group gained in response to the UK government's Future of Telecoms Infrastructure Review, which put the 
short-term onus on network investment rather than cutting retail prices.
Hargreaves Lansdown, the investment platform provider, slipped after Jefferies moved to "underperform" on 
valuation grounds. Bryce Elder
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
London Leading the FTSE 100 [...]
End of Document
London Leading the FTSE 100 [...]
London Leading the FTSE 100 [...]
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 18
Length: 197 words
Body
London Leading the FTSE 100 risers, Ocado hit a new record high after management of the grocery delivery 
specialist met US investors. The meetings were said to have eased concerns about how much Ocado would need 
to fund start-up costs on its landmark deal with Kroger with management highlighting that the US retailer would 
have a tax incentive to own new distribution centres outright.
News that WPP was in talks to sell a minority stake in its China division to Alibaba, Tencent and China Media 
helped the shares rally from a near three-month low. "WPP and agencies have struggled of late in China due partly 
to the clout of Alibaba and Tencent in the market," said analysts at Merrill Lynch. "A stronger partnership with these 
two players may lead to better local trends."
Ryanair led the airlines lower after reducing its fare-growth guidance for the current quarter.
BT Group gained in response to the UK government's Future of Telecoms Infrastructure Review, which put the 
short-term onus on network investment rather than cutting retail prices.
Hargreaves Lansdown, the investment platform provider, slipped after Jefferies moved to "underperform" on 
valuation grounds. Bryce Elder
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
London Leading the FTSE 100 [...]
End of Document
London
London
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 24
Length: 197 words
Body
London Leading the FTSE 100 risers, Ocado hit a new record high after management of the grocery delivery 
specialist met US investors. The meetings were said to have eased concerns about how much Ocado would need 
to fund start-up costs on its landmark deal with Kroger with management highlighting that the US retailer would 
have a tax incentive to own new distribution centres outright.
News that WPP was in talks to sell a minority stake in its China division to Alibaba, Tencent and China Media 
helped the shares rally from a near three-month low. "WPP and agencies have struggled of late in China due partly 
to the clout of Alibaba and Tencent in the market," said analysts at Merrill Lynch. "A stronger partnership with these 
two players may lead to better local trends."
Ryanair led the airlines lower after reducing its fare-growth guidance for the current quarter.
BT Group gained in response to the UK government's Future of Telecoms Infrastructure Review, which put the 
short-term onus on network investment rather than cutting retail prices.
Hargreaves Lansdown, the investment platform provider, slipped after Jefferies moved to "underperform" on 
valuation grounds. Bryce Elder
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
London
End of Document
London
London
Financial Times (London, England)
July 24, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 20
Length: 196 words
Body
Leading the FTSE 100 risers, Ocado hit a new record high after management of the grocery delivery specialist met 
US investors. The meetings were said to have eased concerns about how much Ocado would need to fund start-up 
costs on its landmark deal with Kroger with management highlighting that the US retailer would have a tax incentive 
to own new distribution centres outright.
News that WPP was in talks to sell a minority stake in its China division to Alibaba, Tencent and China Media 
helped the shares rally from a near three-month low. "WPP and agencies have struggled of late in China due partly 
to the clout of Alibaba and Tencent in the market," said analysts at Merrill Lynch. "A stronger partnership with these 
two players may lead to better local trends."
Ryanair led the airlines lower after reducing its fare-growth guidance for the current quarter.
BT Group gained in response to the UK government's Future of Telecoms Infrastructure Review, which put the 
short-term onus on network investment rather than cutting retail prices.
Hargreaves Lansdown, the investment platform provider, slipped after Jefferies moved to "underperform" on 
valuation grounds. Bryce Elder
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
London
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYA ) Reaches New 1-Year Low at $13.88
Ryanair (RYA) Reaches New 1-Year Low at $13.88
Transcript Daily
July 24, 2018 Tuesday 6:14 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 195 words
Body
Jul 24, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(LON:RYA) hit a new 52-week low during mid-day trading on Tuesday . The company traded as low as GBX 13.88 
($0.18) and last traded at GBX 13.98 ($0.19), with a volume of 3619617 shares trading hands. The stock had 
previously closed at GBX 1,451 ($19.21).Separately, Liberum Capital dropped their price target on shares of 
Ryanair from GBX 21 ($0.28) to GBX 18.50 ($0.24) and set a "buy" rating on the stock in a report on Wednesday, 
May 23rd.Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-
passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers 
various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets 
accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food, and merchandise.Further Reading: Price to Earnings Ratio (PE), For Valuing Stocks[1] [ 1]:            
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/price-to-earnings-ratio-pe/ 
Load-Date: July 25, 2018
End of Document
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Weak Earnings From Ryanair Send Airlines Lower
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Weak Earnings From Ryanair Send Airlines Lower
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 23, 2018 Monday 3:48 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 689 words
Body
 Stocks in London opened lower on Monday as concerns over trade tensions returned to the fore, while a drop in 
first quarter profit at Ryanair sent airline stocks lower. 
The FTSE 100 index was down 0.4%, or 31.90 points, at 7,646.89 at the open. The mid-cap FTSE 250 index was 
down 0.3% at 20,864.45. The AIM All-Share index was down 0.1% at 1,093.44.
The Cboe UK 100 was down 0.6% at 12,936.51, the Cboe UK 250 was down 0.4% at 18,975.88, and the Cboe UK 
Small Companies was down 0.1% at 12,464.43.
In mainland Europe, the CAC 40 in Paris and the DAX 30 in Frankfurt were both down 0.5% early Monday.
Worries about trade wars weighed on investor sentiment as G20 finance ministers issued a warning on Sunday that 
"heightened trade and geopolitical tensions" posed an increased risk to global growth.
Moreover, the International Monetary Fund warned Saturday that the growing trade war between the US, China and 
the EU could significantly harm the global economy.
"The impact that it could have on GDP, which in the worst case scenario under current measures...is in the range of 
0.5% of GDP on a global basis," IMF chief Christine Lagarde said at a meeting of G20 finance ministers and central 
bank governors in Buenos Aires.
On Friday, Trump spoke of more tariffs on China and continued his attack on the Federal Reserve for raising 
interest rates, saying tightening penalizes the US for doing well.
On the London Stock Exchange, GlaxoSmithKline was among a handful of blue-chip risers, up 0.3% after the 
chairman of the pharmaceutical giant said the board is considering spinning off its consumer division, the Financial 
Times reported late Friday.
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Weak Earnings From Ryanair Send Airlines Lower
At the other end of the large cap index budget airline easyJet and British Airways-parent International Consolidated 
Airlines Group were the worst performers down 3.0% and 2.0%, respectively, following weak first quarter results 
from peer Ryanair Holdings.
Midcap Wizz Air Holdings was down 3.3%.
The Irish carrier said lower fares, the earlier timing of Easter, and higher fuel and pilot costs resulted in a 20% drop 
in first quarter profit.
Ryanair shares were down 5.9%.
For the three months ended June 30, the airline recorded profit after tax of EUR319 million, down from EUR397 
million in the comparative year ago period, on a revenue of EUR2.08 billion and EUR1.91 billion, respectively.
Ryanair also said it remains "concerned by the danger of a hard ('no-deal') Brexit in March 2019".
"We believe that the risk of a hard Brexit is being underestimated. It is likely that in the event of a hard Brexit our UK 
shareholders will be treated as non-EU. We may be forced to restrict the voting rights of all non-EU shareholders in 
the event of a hard Brexit, to ensure that Ryanair remains majority owned and controlled by EU shareholders," the 
company added. 
Sterling was firm against the dollar quoted at USD1.3135 early Monday, against USD1.3107 at the London equities 
close on Friday.
UK households' finance outlook turned positive for the first time since March 2016, while their financial pressures 
softened in July, results of a survey by IHS Markit and financial information provider Ipsos Mori revealed.
The seasonally adjusted Household Finance Index rose to 44.6 in July from 43.6 in June. However, a score below 
50 suggests pessimism regrading finances among the UK households.
The euro was firm against the dollar quoted at USD1.1730, versus USD1.1707 at the European equities close 
Friday.
On Thursday, European Central Bank will review its monetary policy, although many investors expect the meeting 
to be a quiet affair. The central bank is set to leave its deposit rate and benchmark interest rate unchanged. 
Still to come in the economic events calendar in Monday there are US existing home sales figures and eurozone 
consumer confidence data at 1500 BST.
The Japanese Nikkei 225 index closed down 1.3%. In China, the Shanghai Composite closed up 1.1%, while the 
Hang Seng index in Hong Kong was marginally lower. 
Asian stocks were broadly lower as bond yields rose and the yen strengthened following reports the Bank of Japan 
could announce changes to its ultra-loose monetary policy.
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Midday Update: Financial Sector Props Up Wall Street
Midday Update: Financial Sector Props Up Wall Street
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
July 23, 2018 Monday 12:53 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 586 words
Body
 U.S. stock averages erased early losses and were trading marginally higher at midday on Monday as gains in the 
financial sector resulting from higher Treasury yields compensated for geopolitical pressures and warnings from the 
G-20 on trade restrictions and global growth. 
The acceleration in government bond yields was triggered by reports overnight the Bank of Japan will initiate 
measures to tighten monetary policy. Japan's Nikkei fell by 1.33%, spreading contagion across Europe and then the 
U.S., while pushing up the 10-year yield by more than 6 basis points to a five-week high of 2.96%.
U.S. President Donald Trump's combative tweet to Iranian president Hassan Rouhani threatening "consequences 
the likes of which few throughout history have ever suffered" chased oil futures higher before sellers emerged at 
$74 for Brent crude and just below $69 for West Texas intermediate. Both have sacrificed their early gains and are 
lower. 
Data released Monday morning included a better-than-expected jump in the Chicago Fed national activity index to 
up 0.43 from a downward revised negative 0.45 in May and versus the up 0.23 estimates.
Burdened by record high prices, existing home sales dropped 0.6% in June to a seasonally-adjusted annual rate of 
5.38 million, below the estimated 5.450 million and the first three-month consecutive drop in sales since 2014.
Europe's bourses were all in the red with trade tensions taking a toll on cyclical stocks and the transportation sector 
undermined by Ryanair (RYAAY) after the Irish airline missed Q1 profit estimates. 
Crude oil was down $0.39 to $67.87 per barrel. Natural gas was down $0.04 to $2.72 per 1 million BTU. Gold was 
down $7.90 to $1,223.30 an ounce, while silver was down $0.16 to $15.39 an ounce. Copper was down $0.007 to 
$2.74 per pound.
Among energy ETFs, the United States Oil Fund was down 0.42% to $14.09 with the United States Natural Gas 
Fund was down 1.34% to $22.08. Amongst precious-metal funds, the Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF was down 
Midday Update: Financial Sector Props Up Wall Street
1.33% to 21.41 while SPDR Gold Shares were down 0.63% to $115.83. The iShares Silver Trust was down 0.89% 
to $14.46.    
Here's where the markets stand at mid-day:
U.S. MARKETS
NYSE Composite Index was up 2.06 points (+0.02%) to 12,791.69 
Dow Jones Industrial Index was up 10.26 points (+0.04%) to 25,068.38 
S&P 500 was up 2.53 points (+0.09%) to 2,804.21
Nasdaq Composite Index was up 15.37 points (+0.20%) to 7,835.47   
GLOBAL SENTIMENT
FTSE 100 was down 23.00 points (-0.30%) to 7,655.79
DAX was down 12.85 points (-0.10%) TO 12,548.57  
CAC 40 was down 20.07 points (-0.37%) to 5,378.25 
Nikkei 225 was down 300.89 points (-1.33%) to 22,396.99 
Hang Seng Index was up 31.84 points (+0.11%) to 28,256.12 
Shanghai China Composite Index was up 30.25 points (+1.07%) to 2,859.52 
NYSE SECTOR INDICES
NYSE Energy Sector Index was down 38.76 points (-0.31%) to 11,985.31 
NYSE Financial Sector Index was up 57.27 points (+0.73%) to 8,051.52 
NYSE Healthcare Sector Index was 12.28 points (+0.08%) to 14,974.14
UPSIDE MOVERS
(+) DDE (+51.93%) Announced merger with Twin River Worldwide
(+) LPNT (+35.46%) Agreed to be acquired by RCCH Health Care Partners for $65 per share
(+) HCLP (+21.66%) Agreed to acquire FB Industries, guides Q2 in line with street estimates
(+) HAS (+13.19%) Beat Q2 EPS and revenue estimates
DOWNSIDE MOVERS
(-) RWLK (-24.00%) Preliminary Q2 revenue falls from year ago, missing estimates
(-) PETS (-13.46%) Q1 profit misses estimates
(-) ITW (-8.03%) Q2 GAAP earnings in-line but revenue missed expectations
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
Midday Update: Financial Sector Props Up Wall Street
End of Document
Market Chatter: Ryanair Passengers Urged to Claim Compensation For Flight Cancellations
Market Chatter: Ryanair Passengers Urged to Claim Compensation For 
Flight Cancellations
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 23, 2018 Monday 5:15 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 302 words
Body
 Ryanair (RYAAY) passengers are being urged by the Civil Aviation Authority in the UK to file for compensation 
after their flights were cancelled due to ongoing strikes, the BBC reported.
Pilots working for the low-cost carrier are scheduled to go on strike on Tuesday while cabin crew in Europe are 
expected to take industrial action on Wednesday and Thursday. This week's strikes are to affect some 50,000 
passengers in what should be the busiest season for airline companies, the BBC said.
The agency argued that passengers can file a claim under the European air passenger rights regulation known as 
EU 261. Under the regulation, compensation is set at EUR250 ($293) for flights of up to 1,500 kilometers, and 
EUR400 ($470) for longer flights in Europe and North Africa. However, passengers are not necessarily entitled to 
compensation if the flight was cancelled due to "extraordinary circumstances." Ryanair and other airlines contend 
that strikes qualify as "extraordinary circumstances" and therefore are exempt from compensation rules. "Under EU 
261 legislation, no compensation is payable when the union is acting unreasonably and totally beyond the airline's 
control," the company said.
"When a flight cancellation is caused by strike action by the airline's employees, the airline is required to pay 
compensation to passengers in respect of the cancellation of the flight, if it has not warned passengers of the 
cancellation at least two weeks prior to the scheduled time of departure," a representative for the aviation authority 
told the BBC.
(Market Chatter news is derived from conversations with market professionals globally. This information is believed 
to be from reliable sources but may include rumor and speculation. Accuracy is not guaranteed.)
Price: 116.70, Change: -1.42, Percent Change: -1.20
Market Chatter: Ryanair Passengers Urged to Claim Compensation For Flight Cancellations
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Monday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Monday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 23, 2018 Monday 11:04 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 239 words
Body
 American Depositary Receipts of European stocks were trading 0.15% higher at 139.12 on the Bank of New York 
Mellon Europe ADR Index on Monday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by pharmaceutical company Oasmia Pharmaceutical (OASM), which 
jumped 39.3%, followed by fellow pharmaceutical firm Ascendis Pharma (ASND), which was up 1.9%. Financial 
services firm Credit Suisse (CS), and bank Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA)were up 1.2% and 0.8%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by semiconductor company STMicroelectronics (STM), and medical 
equipment and technology company Koninklijke Philips Electronics (PHG), which fell 2% and 1.7% respectively. 
They were followed by biopharmaceutical firm DBV Technologies (DBVT), and biotech company Zealand Pharma 
(ZEAL), which were down 1.4% and 1.3%. 
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by Midatech Pharma (MTP), which surged 21.9%, followed by 
communications group WPP (WPP), which was up 2.4%. Telecommunications provider  BT Group (BT), and bank 
HSBC (HSBC) rose 1.1% and 0.8% respectively. 
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by airline operator Ryanair (RYAAY), and biopharmaceutical company 
Adaptimmune Therapeutics (ADAP), which lost 5.9% and 3.5% respectively. They were followed by pharmaceutical 
firm GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), and mining company Randgold Resources (GOLD), which shed  2% and 1.8%.
Price: 2.01, Change: +0.56, Percent Change: +38.61
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Pre-Tax Profit Nosedives After Surging Staff Costs and Lower Fares Outweigh Growth in Traffic
Ryanair Pre-Tax Profit Nosedives After Surging Staff Costs and Lower Fares 
Outweigh Growth in Traffic
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
July 23, 2018 Monday 7:07 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 380 words
Body
 Europe's biggest low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY, RYA.L) said early Monday pre-tax profit plunged during the 
fiscal first quarter because of a 34% surge in staff costs and lower fares, which are expected to miss their growth 
forecast for the second quarter.
The carrier, whose low-cost model is under threat from the growing influence of trade unions across its European 
operations, said pre-tax profit slumped by 20% despite a jump in traffic to 37.6 million during the three months that 
ended June 30, from 35 million a year ago, as well as an "industry-leading" load factor of 96%.
Ryanair, which canceled more than 2,500 flights due to air traffic control shortages in the UK, Germany, and 
Greece as well as strikes in France, said profit before tax dropped to 319.0 million euros ($374.0 million) because of 
lower fares, the absence of half of Easter in the quarter, and pilot costs.  
While average fares slid by 4%, the company noted that its staff costs climbed primarily because of a 20% pay 
increase for pilots, 9% more flight hours and 3% general salary rise for the non-flight staff, outweighing an increase 
in total revenue.
Group sales climbed to 2.08 billion euros, from 1.91 billion euros, beating the 2.03 billion euro average analyst 
estimate compiled by Capital IQ. Nevertheless, diluted earnings per share at 0.26 euro were in line with the Street's 
forecast, and below the 0.32 euros recorded a year earlier.
Noting the expected delivery of 210 MAX-200s aircraft in the financial year 2019, the company said: "These aircraft 
have 4% more seats and 16% lower fuel cost, and we expect them to deliver material unit cost reductions from 
FY21 onward."
Continuing to guide a full-year pre-tax profit range of 1.25-1.35 billion euros, the carrier said the recent weaker fare 
environment and the expected impact of crew strikes on forward pricing meant that fares in the second fiscal 
quarter would only rise by about  1% versus a previous guidance of more than 4%.
Ryanair Pre-Tax Profit Nosedives After Surging Staff Costs and Lower Fares Outweigh Growth in Traffic
Lamenting "almost zero second-half visibility," the budget airline added that its guidance was "heavily dependent on 
close-in second-quarter fares, crew strikes, continuing air traffic control staff shortages/strikes, and no negative 
Brexit developments."
Price: 116.70, Change: -1.42, Percent Change: -1.20
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
European Markets Continue To Struggle On Trade Concerns
European Markets Continue To Struggle On Trade Concerns
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 23, 2018 Monday 12:12 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 473 words
Body
 The European markets ended the first day of the new trading week with modest losses, extending the weakness 
from the previous two sessions. 
Concerns over global trade continue to weigh on investor sentiment, after US President Donald Trump accused the 
EU and China of manipulating their currencies.
Finance ministers and central bank governors of group of 20 nations recognized the need to step up dialogue and 
actions to mitigate risks and enhance confidence on international trade.
G20 finance ministers and central bank governors sought action amid rising trade war risks following their meeting 
held on Saturday and Sunday, in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
At the conclusion of the G20 meeting, IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde urged that trade conflicts be 
resolved via international cooperation without resorting to exceptional measures.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index weakened by 0.2%. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip 
stocks decreased 0.2%, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major UK companies, lost 0.1%.
The DAX of Germany dropped 0.1% and the CAC of France fell 0.4%. The FTSE 100 of the UK declined 0.3% and 
the SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 0.4%.
In London, Ryanair Holdings sank 6.4% as it battles a series of labor strikes.
WPP jumped 3.2%. Sky News reported that the British advertising giant is in talks to sell a minority stake in its 
Chinese unit to Alibaba, Tencent and China Media.
Julius Baer fell 4.0% in Zurich. The Swiss private bank warned that clients are becoming more cautious due to 
rising trade tensions.
European Markets Continue To Struggle On Trade Concerns
Consumer electronics giant Philips declined 1.8% in Amsterdam after reporting a fall in the second quarter net 
profit, reflecting loss from discontinued operations.
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV dropped 1.5% in Milan. The company replaced ailing Chief Executive Sergio 
Marchionne with Mike Manley.
Eurozone consumer confidence fell less-than-expected in July to its lowest level in nine months, a flash estimate 
from European Commission showed Monday. The consumer confidence index eased to minus 0.6 from minus 0.5 
in June. Economists had forecast a score of minus 0.7.
British households' finance outlook turned positive for the first time since March 2016, while their financial pressures 
softened in July, results of a survey by IHS Markit and financial information provider Ipsos Mori revealed Monday. 
The seasonally adjusted Household Finance Index, or HFI, rose to 44.6 in July from 43.6 in June.
A report released by the National Association of Realtors on Monday showed existing home sales in the US 
unexpectedly decreased for the third straight month in June.
NAR said existing home sales fell by 0.6% to an annual rate of 5.36 million in June from a downwardly revised rate 
of 5.41 million in May. Economists had expected existing home sales to climb by 0.5%.
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
LONDON BRIEFING: Ryanair Says Risk Of Hard Brexit Being Underestimated
LONDON BRIEFING: Ryanair Says Risk Of Hard Brexit Being 
Underestimated
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 23, 2018 Monday 3:00 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 321 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings said Monday that lower fares, the earlier timing of Easter, and higher fuel and pilot costs resulted 
in a 20% drop in first quarter profit.
For the three months ended June 30, the airline recorded profit after tax of EUR319 million, down from EUR397 
million in the comparative year ago period, on a revenue of EUR2.08 billion and EUR1.91 billion, respectively.
The Irish budget carrier said it will retain its annual profit after tax guidance range of EUR1.25 billion to EUR1.35 
billion, but noted that the guidance was heavily depended on second-quarter fares, crew strikes, continuing air 
traffic control staff shortages and strikes, the absence of unforeseen security events, and no negative Brexit 
developments.
However, Ryanair said it remains "concerned by the danger of a hard ('no-deal') Brexit in March 2019", adding:
"We believe that the risk of a hard Brexit is being underestimated. It is likely that in the event of a hard Brexit our UK 
shareholders will be treated as non-EU. We may be forced to restrict the voting rights of all non-EU shareholders in 
the event of a hard Brexit, to ensure that Ryanair remains majority owned and controlled by EU shareholders."
"We have applied for a UK AOC to protect our domestic UK routes and hope to receive it before the end of 2018."
Here is what you need to know at the London market open:----------MARKETS----------FTSE 100: called down 0.4% 
at 7,651.20----------Hang Seng: up 0.2% at 28,284.55Nikkei 225: closed down 1.3% at 22,396.99DJIA: closed flat at 
25,058.12S&P 500: closed down 0.1% at 2,801.83----------GBP: up at USD1.3136 (USD1.3107)EUR: up at 
USD1.1727 (USD1.1707)
Gold: firm at USD1,230.60 per ounce (USD1,228.31)Oil (Brent): firm at USD72.95 a barrel (USD72.86)
(changes since previous London equities close)----------ECONOMICS AND GENERAL----------Monday's Key 
Economic Events still to come 
LONDON BRIEFING: Ryanair Says Risk Of Hard Brexit Being Underestimated
1600 CEST EU FCCI Flash Consumer Confidence Indicator
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
LONDON MARKET CLOSE: Stocks Pare Losses Amid Subdued Start To Week
LONDON MARKET CLOSE: Stocks Pare Losses Amid Subdued Start To 
Week
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 23, 2018 Monday 12:04 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 1528 words
Body
 Stocks in London eased off their intraday lows as Monday's session progressed, though still started the week on a 
subdued note.
Investors continued to digest the prospect of further US-China tariffs, as well as heightened tensions between the 
US and Iran.
Airlines in London were dragged down by a first quarter update from Ryanair, while Hargreaves Lansdown fell on a 
broker rating downgrade and Ascential on its interim results.
The FTSE 100 index closed down 0.3%, or 23.00 points at 7,655.79, having hit an intraday low of 7,621.75 earlier 
in the session. 
The FTSE 250 ended down 0.7%, or 155.30 points, at 20,770.38, and the AIM All-Share closed 0.5%, or 5.94 
points, at 1,088.63.
The Cboe UK 100 ended down 0.3% at 12,973.38, the Cboe UK 250 closed 0.8% lower at 18,905.19, and the Cboe 
Small Companies ended down 0.5% at 12,406.09.
In European equities on Monday, the CAC 40 in Paris ended down 0.4%, while the DAX 30 in Frankfurt ended 
down 0.1%.
"A tentative recovery has been seen today, with markets moving off the lows, particularly in Europe and the UK. A 
packed calendar for the rest of the week has meant that bullish moves have been limited in scope," said IG chief 
market analyst Chris Beauchamp.
Risk-off trade dominated on Monday as investors continued to digest US President Donald Trump's announcement 
on Friday that he is "ready to go" to USD500 billion in import tariffs on Chinese goods.
LONDON MARKET CLOSE: Stocks Pare Losses Amid Subdued Start To Week
In the UK, the pound was largely unchanged at the London equities close Monday, quoted at USD1.3104 compared 
to USD1.3107 at the close on Friday.
New Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt warned during a visit to Germany on Monday of the rising threat of a no-deal 
Brexit "by accident".
Hunt called on EU negotiators to take a more constructive role in Brexit negotiations with Britain, which is scheduled 
to leave the 28-member bloc on March 29 next year.
There is now "a very real threat of a Brexit no-deal by accident, and this is because many people in the EU are 
thinking that they just have to wait long enough and Britain will blink," Hunt said after a meeting with German 
Foreign Minister Heiko Maas.
"The UK government seems to have decided on this kind of tough talk approach ahead of the next round of 
negotiations, both for home consumption and in order to send a strong message to the EU. It looks like we are in for 
a difficult few weeks," said IG's Beauchamp.
In data from the eurozone, consumer confidence suffered less-than-expected in July. The consumer confidence 
index eased to minus 0.6 from minus 0.5 in June, an improvement on the forecast of minus 0.7. July's reading still 
marked the lowest level in nine months.
The euro stood at USD1.1702 at the European equities close Monday, against USD1.1707 at the same time on 
Friday.
Stocks in New York were lower at the London equities close, with the Down Jones down 0.1%, the S&P 500 index 
0.1% lower, and the Nasdaq Composite shedding 0.2%. 
To come after Wall Street closes are earnings from Google parent Alphabet.
Oilfield services firm Halliburton, having published results before the market opened, was 7.6% lower in New York 
after reporting a set of second quarter figures which were in line with analyst expectations. 
Halliburton posted adjusted earnings per share of USD0.58, above USD0.03 last year. The company's revenue for 
the quarter rose 24% to USD6.15 billion from USD4.96 billion last year.
Brent oil was quoted at USD73.87 a barrel at the London equities close Monday from USD72.86 late Friday.
Oil was higher as Trump, taking a break from escalating tensions with China, turned his focus to Iran over the 
weekend on Twitter.
Following comments from Iranian President Hassan Rowhani on war and a threat to blockade Gulf oil, Trump 
addressed the Iranian leader in an all-capitalised message on Twitter.
"NEVER, EVER THREATEN THE US AGAIN OR YOU WILL SUFFER CONSEQUENCES THE LIKES OF WHICH 
FEW THROUGHOUT HISTORY HAVE EVER SUFFERED BEFORE," he wrote.
Trump drew criticism from his European allies in May when he pulled out of the 2015 international nuclear 
agreement with Tehran and announced a resumption of US economic sanctions, which are still being restored.
In other commodities, gold was quoted at USD1,224.19 an ounce at the London equities close Monday against 
USD1,228.31 at the close on Friday.
In London, WPP closed 3.1% higher after Sky News over the weekend reported the advertising firm is in early stage 
discussions to sell a 20% stake in its Chinese operations to Alibaba Group Holding, Tencent Holdings and China 
Media Capital Holdings.
LONDON MARKET CLOSE: Stocks Pare Losses Amid Subdued Start To Week
Sources told Sky that the talks could take several months to conclude, and are expected to value WPP China at 
between USD2 billion and USD2.5 billion.
GlaxoSmithKline also rose on a press report, gaining 0.8% after the Financial Times on Friday said the drugmaker 
is considering a spin-off of its Consumer unit, which includes brands such as Aquafresh toothpaste, Theraflu flu 
treatment and Panadol pain relief.
According to the newspaper, "several top-ten investors" have been urging the company's board to spin off Glaxo's 
consumer division. According to a newspaper source, Chairman Philip Hampton has been in talks over the possible 
creation of a stand-alone pharmaceuticals and vaccines company.
Towards the other end of the index were airlines, with easyJet ending down 1.9% and International Consolidated 
Airlines off 1.6%. 
This was due to a negative read-across from budget carrier Ryanair, which reported a fall in first quarter profit and a 
subdued second quarter outlook.
For the three months ended June 30, the airline recorded profit after tax of EUR319 million, down from EUR397 
million a year ago, on a revenue of EUR2.08 billion and EUR1.91 billion respectively.
The fall in profit was largely due to the timing of Easter, higher oil prices and pilot costs. Pretax profit including 
exceptional items came in at EUR345.4 million, down 22% from EUR443.7 million a year before.
Despite holding its full-year guidance, Ryanair said that second quarter fares are now only expected to rise by 
approximately 1%, previously guided to grow 4%. This is due to "the recent weaker fare environment" and the 
expected hit from crew strikes on forward pricing.
Ryanair closed down 6.4%.
Fund supermarket Hargreaves Lansdown ended 1.6% lower after Jefferies downgraded its rating on the company 
to Underperform from Hold.
In the FTSE 250, Ascential closed 4.1% lower as the worst performer in the index as first half profit slipped.
The business events organiser recorded a pretax profit of GBP23.1 million for the six months to June 30, 14% lower 
than GBP26.8 million last year. This was despite revenue climbing 14% to GBP188.9 million from GBP165.1 
million.
The group margin dipped to 32.0% from 36.8%. Exhibitions & Festivals margins fell to 49.7% from 55.5%, while 
information services unit recorded margins of 25.1% versus 28.8%.
Outsourcer Capita shed 2.7% after the Financial Times reported on Monday its British military's fire and rescue 
services contract has been suspended after a challenge from Serco.
Capita in June won the fire and rescue services contract, but a UK government assessment of the company had 
given the outsourcer the riskiest possible rating. Citing documents, the FT reported that Capita scored 10 out of 10 
for risk, with 1 indicating the lowest probability of distress and 10 the highest. Serco scored seven out of 10 for risk 
in the assessment.
The UK defence ministry confirmed that the contract award has been suspended until a legal challenge is resolved, 
the FT reported. Serco closed down 1.2%.
Elsewhere on the Main Market, newsagent operator McColl's Retail Group tumbled 13% as interim profit halved.
LONDON MARKET CLOSE: Stocks Pare Losses Amid Subdued Start To Week
For the 26 weeks ended May 28, McColl's reported pretax profit of GBP2.3 million, nearly halved from the GBP4.5 
million posted last year. First half like-for-likes sales were down 2.7% due to supply chain disruption caused by the 
demise of wholesaler Palmer & Harvey.
Revenue, however, saw double-digit growth, rising by 19% to GBP601.2 million from GBP504.8 million the prior 
year. This was driven by the GBP117.0 million acquisition of 300 stores from The Co-operative Group.
The fall in interim profit was attributed to costs relating to the collapse of P&H, as well as health and safety breach 
fines and an unprofitable store closure programme. 
"Investors will want reassurance that it is only experiencing short term pains and that the strategic developments in 
the business will result in longer term gains," said Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell.
In the economic events calendar on Tuesday there are manufacturing and services PMI readings from France, 
Germany, eurozone and the US at 0800 BST, 0830 BST, 0900 BST and 1445 BST respectively. 
The CBI industrial trends survey is at 1100 BST. Before this, the latest grocery share figures from Kantar 
Worldpanel for the 12 weeks ending July 15 are due at 0800 BST.
In the UK corporate calendar there are full year results from personal care products maker PZ Cussons and online 
spreadbetting firm IG Group. There are also half year results from retail property investors Hammerson, precision 
instruments supplier Spectris and tonic water maker Fevertree Drinks.
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Ryanair Earnings Slide On Fares, Cost Pressure
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Ryanair Earnings Slide On Fares, Cost 
Pressure
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 23, 2018 Monday 2:42 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 941 words
Body
 Stocks in London are seen opening lower on Monday as global trade tensions refused to dissipate, while Ryanair 
reported a substantial drop in first-quarter profit.
IG futures indicate the FTSE 100 index will open down 21.79 points at 7,657.00. The blue chip index closed down 
0.1% at 7,678.79 on Friday.
Worries about trade wars weighed on investor sentiment as G20 finance ministers issued a warning on Sunday that 
"heightened trade and geopolitical tensions" posed an increased risk to global growth.
In addition, the International Monetary Fund warned Saturday that the growing trade war between the US, China 
and the EU could significantly harm the global economy.
"The impact that it could have on GDP, which in the worst case scenario under current measures...is in the range of 
0.5% of GDP on a global basis," IMF chief Christine Lagarde said at a meeting of G20 finance ministers and central 
bank governors in Buenos Aires.
"No progress at the G20 over trade issues means trade jitters are being sent through the markets. Asian equity 
markets dropped lower as traders took risk off the table, whilst flows into safe haven assets were once again on the 
increase. European futures are also pointing to a lower start after the opening bell," said London Capital Group's 
Jasper Lawler.
The economic events calendar in Monday has US existing home sales figures and eurozone consumer confidence 
data at 1500 BST.
Sterling was firm against the dollar, quoted at USD1.3142 early Monday, against USD1.3107 at the London equities 
close on Friday.
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Ryanair Earnings Slide On Fares, Cost Pressure
UK households' finance outlook turned positive for the first time since March 2016, while their financial pressures 
softened in July, results of a survey by IHS Markit and financial information provider Ipsos Mori revealed.
The seasonally adjusted Household Finance Index, or HFI, rose to 44.6 in July from 43.6 in June. However, a score 
below 50 suggests pessimism regrading finances among the UK households.
In early corporate news, Anglo-Australian miner BHP Billiton confirmed it has received notice of a class action 
lawsuit in Australia over the Samarco dam failure, responding to media reports.
The class action, which was reported by the Sydney Morning Herald on Sunday, was filed in the Federal Court of 
Australia in the State of Victoria.
The SMH said around 3,000 investors had signed up to the class action, which alleges the miner breached 
disclosure obligations and "engaged in misleading and deceptive conduct".
The chief executive of Airbus suggested in an interview with the Sunday Times merging the Airbus jet fighter 
business with that of BAE Systems to create a pan-European military aircraft company that could compete with US 
aerospace giants.
Tom Enders told the newspaper it is time to "seriously look at consolidating and coalescing efforts eventually to 
one".
BAE unveiled its concept for a sixth-generation jet fighter last week at the Farnborough International Airshow and 
called for international help to turn the Tempest concept into reality. The UK government has committed GBP2 
billion to the project, but that is a fraction of the total GBP10 billion or more needed to build the aircraft, the Sunday 
Times noted.
Ryanair Holdings said lower fares, the earlier timing of Easter, and higher fuel and pilot costs resulted in a 20% 
drop in first quarter profit.
The Irish budget carrier also said it will retain its annual profit after tax guidance range of EUR1.25 billion to 
EUR1.35 billion, but noted that the guidance was heavily depended on second-quarter fares, crew strikes, 
continuing air traffic control staff shortages and strikes, the absence of unforeseen security events, and no negative 
Brexit developments.
For the three months ended June 30, the airline recorded profit after tax of EUR319 million, down from EUR397 
million in the comparative year ago period, on a revenue of EUR2.08 billion and EUR1.91 billion, respectively. 
Events and publishing firm Ascential said it made strong strategic progress and achieved organic growth in the first 
half of its financial year.
For the half year ending June 30, revenue increased 14% to GBP188.9 million from GBP165.1 million the year 
before. Pretax profit came in at GBP35.3 million down from GBP42.7 million the year before.
Ascential declared an interim dividend of 1.9 pence up from 1.8p last year. 
"In the last six months we have made considerable progress with our strategic vision: enabling our customers to 
succeed in the digital economy. It is particularly pleasing that we have delivered strong organic growth from our 
products in both their live and digital formats," said CEO Duncan Painter. 
Paragon Banking Group said it continues to operate in line with the board's expectations. 
The lender said that, for its financial third quarter ended June 30, mortgage lending totalled GBP409.4 million and 
GBP1.13 billion so far in financial 2018. The company also said it completed the purchase of residential property 
development finance business Titlestone. Paragon said Titlestone will enhance profits by a high single-digit 
percentage in 2019 and accelerate and broaden Paragon's prospects within the residential property lending space.
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Ryanair Earnings Slide On Fares, Cost Pressure
"The core buy-to-let business continues to see strong demand from professional landlords and the addition of 
Titlestone is expected to accelerate the growth of our Commercial Lending arm. We remain on track to achieve our 
2018 targets and the business is well-placed to make further strong progress in 2019," said Chief Executive Nigel 
Terrington.
The Japanese Nikkei 225 index closed down 1.4%. In China, the Shanghai Composite is up 0.8%, while the Hang 
Seng index in Hong Kong is up 0.2%.
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: Risk-Off Trade With Ryanair Weighing On Airlines
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: Risk-Off Trade With Ryanair Weighing On 
Airlines
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 23, 2018 Monday 7:22 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 1121 words
Body
 Sentiment in Europe was soft at the start of the week, with the FTSE 100 lower at midday on Monday after US 
President Trump switched his focus to Iran from his ever-escalating tariff threats toward China. 
Airlines were among the worst performers in the blue-chip index following budget carrier Ryanair's first-quarter 
results, while Ascential was the biggest loser in the FTSE 250.
The FTSE 100 index was down 0.4%, or 31.92 points, at 7,646.87 Monday midday. The mid-cap FTSE 250 index 
was down 0.6%, or 114.32 points lower, at 20,811.36. The AIM All-Share index was down 0.4% at 1,090.16.
The Cboe UK 100 was down 0.4% at 12,959.79, the Cboe UK 250 was down 0.5% at 18,954.93, and the Cboe UK 
Small Companies was down 0.4% at 12,425.25.
In mainland Europe on Monday, the CAC 40 in Paris and the DAX 30 in Frankfurt were down 0.6% and 0.2% 
respectively at midday.
"The FTSE is leading European markets lower, with Donald Trump driving risk aversion amid talk of further tariffs 
on China and war with Iran," said IG market analyst Joshua Mahony.
As markets were rattled on Friday by Trump's announcement he is "ready to go" to USD500 billion in import tariffs 
on Chinese goods, the US president over the weekend ramped up his rhetoric towards another country, Iran.
Following comments from Iranian President Hassan Rowhani on war and a threat to blockade Gulf oil, Trump 
addressed the Iranian leader in an all-capitalized message on Twitter.
"NEVER, EVER THREATEN THE US AGAIN OR YOU WILL SUFFER CONSEQUENCES THE LIKES OF WHICH 
FEW THROUGHOUT HISTORY HAVE EVER SUFFERED BEFORE," he wrote.
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: Risk-Off Trade With Ryanair Weighing On Airlines
Trump drew criticism from his European allies in May when he pulled out of the 2015 international nuclear 
agreement with Tehran and announced a resumption of US economic sanctions, which are still being restored.
Earlier Sunday, Rowhani had warned Trump not to escalate tensions with Iran: "Americans should know that peace 
with Iran is the mother of all peace...likewise a war would be the mother of all wars."
Markets in New York are set for a flat to lower open on Monday, with the Dow Jones and S&P 500 seen unchanged 
but the tech-heavy Nasdaq set to fall 0.3%.
Before the US open on Monday, oilfield services firm Halliburton reported second-quarter earnings. The company's 
bottom line came in at USD511 million, or USD0.58 per share. This compares with USD28 million, or USD0.03 per 
share, in last year's second quarter. Revenue for the quarter rose 24% to USD6.15 billion from USD4.96 billion last 
year.
After the New York close Monday, Google parent Alphabet reports. Later in the week come results from the likes of 
Amazon, McDonald's, Twitter and Boeing.
In the economic calendar on Monday, the Chicago Fed national activity index is at 1330 BST, with US existing 
home sales at 1500 BST. Eurozone consumer confidence is also at 1500 BST.
In London, advertising agency WPP was up 2.2% after Sky News on Saturday reported the company is in early 
stage discussions to sell a minority 20% stake in its Chinese operations to Alibaba Group Holding, Tencent 
Holdings and China Media Capital Holdings. 
Sources told the news agency that the talks could take several months to conclude and is expected to value WPP 
China at between USD2 billion and USD2.5 billion.
GlaxoSmithKline was up 0.8% after the Financial Times late Friday said several top-ten investors" have been 
urging the drugmaker's board to spin off its Consumer division.
According to a newspaper source, Chairman Philip Hampton has been in talks over the possible creation of a 
stand-alone pharmaceuticals and vaccines company.
Towards the bottom of the FTSE 100 were airlines, with easyJet down 1.6% and International Consolidated Airlines 
down 1.6%. In the FTSE 250, Wizz Air was down 1.8%.
The companies were suffering from a negative read-across after budget carrier Ryanair reported a fall in first 
quarter profit and a cautious outlook for the second quarter. 
Ryanair was down 4.1% at midday.
For the three months ended June 30, the Irish airline recorded profit after tax of EUR319 million, down from 
EUR397 million a year ago, on revenue of EUR2.08 billion and EUR1.91 billion respectively. 
The budget carrier held its annual profit after tax guidance range of EUR1.25 billion to EUR1.35 billion, but noted 
that this is heavily dependent on second-quarter fares, crew strikes, continuing air traffic control staff shortages, the 
absence of unforeseen security events, and no negative Brexit developments.
However, despite holding its full-year guidance Ryanair did say that second quarter fares are now only expected to 
rise by approximately 1%, previously guided to grow 4%. This is due to "the recent weaker fare environment" and 
the expected hit from crew strikes on forward pricing.
"The airline has certainly done a very good job so far at sweating its assets and making money from passengers 
beyond the price of an airline ticket. Yet first quarter results would suggest it needs to do more to cope with higher 
oil prices, higher pilot costs, and yet another bout of strikes," said Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell.
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: Risk-Off Trade With Ryanair Weighing On Airlines
In the FTSE 250, Ascential was the worst performer, down 4.3%.
The business events organiser recorded a pretax profit of GBP23.1 million for the six months ended June 30, down 
14% from GBP26.8 million last year. Revenue, however, rose to GBP188.9 million for the half from GBP165.1 
million. 
Ascential's group margin dipped to 32.0% from 36.8%. Exhibitions & Festivals margins fell to 49.7% from 55.5%, 
while information services unit recorded margins of 25.1% versus 28.8%.
Plastic products maker RPC was up 1.9% after the Telegraph over the weekend said Standard Life Aberdeen, a 
major shareholder in the plastic products maker, believes the company's low share price could spark bid interest 
from overseas rivals and private equity firms.
While the company was among the best performers in the FTSE 250 on Monday, its share price remains down 12% 
since the start of 2018.
Elsewhere on the London Main Market, retailer McColl's Retail Group dropped 12% after supply chain disruption hit 
its first-half results.
For the 26 weeks ended May 28, McColl's reported pretax profit of GBP2.3 million, nearly halved from the GBP4.5 
million posted last year. First half like-for-likes sales were down 2.7% due to supply chain disruption caused by the 
demise of wholesaler Palmer & Harvey.
Revenue, however, saw double-digit growth, rising by 19% to GBP601.2 million from GBP504.8 million the prior 
year. This was driven by the GBP117.0 million acquisition of 300 stores from The Co-operative Group.
The fall in interim profit was attributed to costs relating to the collapse of P&H, as well as health and safety breach 
fines and an unprofitable store closure programme. 
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
European Shares Fall For Third Day At Midday As Trade Tensions Mount
European Shares Fall For Third Day At Midday As Trade Tensions Mount
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 23, 2018 Monday 6:06 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 273 words
Body
 European stocks fell on Monday as trade tensions persisted and investors braced for a busy week of corporate 
earnings.
The US dollar slumped after US President Donald Trump accused the EU and China of manipulating their 
currencies.
In addition, Trump talked of more tariffs on China and continued his attack on the Federal Reserve for raising 
interest rates, saying tightening penalizes the US for doing well.
Meanwhile, the weekend's G20 meeting of finance ministers in Argentina did little to allay fears of a global trade 
war.
Investors looked ahead to an important meeting on trade between Trump and European Commission President 
Jean-Claude Juncker at the White House on Wednesday, with EU officials saying they have low expectations for a 
positive outcome.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index was down 0.1% at 385.16, on track for its third straight session of 
losses.
The German DAX was down about 0.1%, while France's CAC 40 index and the UK's FTSE 100 were down around 
0.3% each.
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles dropped 2.3%. The company replaced ailing CEO Sergio Marchionne with Mike Manley.
Dutch consumer electronics giant Philips declined 1.4% after reporting a fall in Q2 net profit, reflecting loss from 
discontinued operations.
Julius Baer fell more than 4%. The Swiss private bank warned that clients are becoming more cautious due to rising 
trade tensions.
European Shares Fall For Third Day At Midday As Trade Tensions Mount
Discount airline Ryanair Holdings fell as much as 5% as it battles a series of labor strikes.
WPP jumped more than 2% in London. Sky News reported that the British advertising giant is in talks to sell a 
minority stake in its Chinese unit to Alibaba, Tencent and China Media.
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
European Markets Continue To Struggle On Trade Concerns
European Markets Continue To Struggle On Trade Concerns
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 23, 2018 Monday 5:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 500 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - The European markets ended the first day of the new trading 
week with modest losses, extending the weakness from the previous two sessions. Concerns over global trade 
continue to weigh on investor sentiment, after U.S. President Donald Trump accused the European Union and 
China of manipulating their currencies.  Finance ministers and central bank governors of Group of 20 nations 
recognized the need to step up dialogue and actions to mitigate risks and enhance confidence on international 
trade. 
 G20 finance ministers and central bank governors sought action amid rising trade war risks following their meeting 
held on July 21 and 22, in Buenos Aires, Argentina.  At the conclusion of the G20 meeting, IMF Managing Director 
Christine Lagarde urged that trade conflicts be resolved via international cooperation without resorting to 
exceptional measures.  The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index weakened by 0.19 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 
index of eurozone bluechip stocks decreased 0.17 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some 
major U.K. companies, lost 0.07 percent.  The DAX of Germany dropped 0.10 percent and the CAC of France fell 
0.37 percent. The FTSE 100 of the U.K. declined 0.30 percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 0.35 
percent.  In London, Ryanair Holdings sank 6.36 percent as it battles a series of labor strikes.  WPP jumped 3.16 
percent. Sky News reported that the British advertising giant is in talks to sell a minority stake in its Chinese unit to 
Alibaba, Tencent and China Media.  Julius Baer fell 4.01 percent in Zurich. The Swiss private bank warned that 
clients are becoming more cautious due to rising trade tensions.  Consumer electronics giant Philips declined 1.79 
percent in Amsterdam after reporting a fall in Q2 net profit, reflecting loss from discontinued operations.  Fiat 
Chrysler Automobiles NV dropped 1.50 percent in Milan. The company replaced ailing CEO Sergio Marchionne with 
Mike Manley.  Eurozone consumer confidence fell less-than-expected in July to its lowest level in nine months, a 
flash estimate from European Commission showed Monday. The consumer confidence index eased to -0.6 from -
0.5 in June. Economists had forecast a score of -0.7.   British households' finance outlook turned positive for the 
first time since March 2016, while their financial pressures softened in July, results of a survey by IHS Markit and 
financial information provider Ipsos Mori revealed Monday. The seasonally adjusted Household Finance Index, or 
HFI, rose to 44.6 in July from 43.6 in June.  A report released by the National Association of Realtors on Monday 
showed existing home sales in the U.S. unexpectedly decreased for the third straight month in June.  NAR said 
European Markets Continue To Struggle On Trade Concerns
existing home sales fell by 0.6 percent to an annual rate of 5.36 million in June from a downwardly revised rate of 
5.41 million in May. Economists had expected existing home sales to climb by 0.5 percent.      
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair warns pilots over strikes but says profit on track
Ryanair warns pilots over strikes but says profit on track
Business World (Digest)
July 23, 2018 Monday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 554 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair warned cabin crew and pilots that some of them could lose their jobs if a series of strikes continue but said 
it was on course to hit its annual profit target despite the disruption.
The Irish low-cost carrier, Europe's largest, is facing its worst-ever week for strikes, with over 300 of its daily 2,400 
flights canceled on Wednesday and Thursday due to action by cabin crew in Spain, Portugal, Italy and Belgium.
But the airline on Monday beat analyst forecasts to post a profit of 319 million euros for the three months to June 
30. While profit was down 20% from the same period last year, it was ahead of the average estimate in a company 
poll of analysts of 305 million euros.
It said growth in revenues for optional extras grew 25% in the quarter, helping to offset a fall of 4% in average fares 
and higher fuel and staff costs.
The airline reaffirmed its forecast for profit for the year to be between 1.25 billion euros and 1.35 billion euros, down 
from a record 1.45 billion in the year to March 31.
"Strike action is bad for sentiment and creates short-term risks to earnings, but should not impactRyanair's long-
term competitive position, cost leadership, financial strength or cash generation," Liberium analyst Gerald Khoo 
said in a note.
Ryanair's shares were down 6 percent to 14.60 euros at 0730 GMT, matching a 12-month intraday low hit in 
December when the airline announced plans to recognize unions. That is down almost 25% from an all-time high of 
19.38 euros last August.
Ryanair warns pilots over strikes but says profit on track
The results come after EasyJet, Europe's second-biggest low-cost airline, raised its profit guidance, forecasting 
earnings could soar by as much as 45 percent this year. Fast-growing budget airline Norwegian Air Shuttle earlier in 
July also beat expectations with a second-quarter net profit.
Ryanair, which flies in 37 countries and carried 130 million passengers last year, averted widespread strikes before 
Christmas by deciding to recognize trade unions for the first time in its 32-year history. But it has since struggled to 
reach agreement on terms with several of them.
It cited strikes as one of the reasons why average fares would be lower than expected this summer, with high 
competition and a heatwave in Northern Europe also weighing.
Average fares are expected to grow by 1% in the three months to September 30, down from an earlier forecast of 
5% growth, O'Leary said.
"While we continue to actively engage with pilot and cabin crew unions across Europe, we expect further strikes 
over the peak summer period as we are not prepared to concede to unreasonable demands that will compromise 
either our low fares or our highly efficient model," O'Leary said.
"If these unnecessary strikes continue to damage customer confidence and forward prices/yields in certain country 
markets then we will have to review our winter schedule, which may lead to fleet reductions at disrupted bases and 
job losses," he added.
In a pre-recorded presentation to investors, O'Leary said market expectations for average fares in winter were 
"overdone" and expected fares in the period to be flat compared to last year.
Ryanair also warned that Austrian holiday airline Laudamotion, which it agreed to buy this year, would post annual 
losses of 150 million euros, up from an earlier estimate of 100 million. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 21, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair profits fall 20 per cent in first quarter
Ryanair profits fall 20 per cent in first quarter
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 23, 2018 Monday 12:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 285 words
Byline: Bill Smith in London
Dateline: London (dpa) - 
Body
Ryanair reported a 20-per-cent fall in profits in the first quarter of its financial year on Monday, blaming lower fares 
and higher fuel and pilot costs, but the low-cost airline insisted that it remains on track to hit its annual target.
The airline said its net profit dropped to 319 million euros (373 million dollars) in the quarter ended June 30, as 
average fares fell 4 per cent amid some overcapacity in Europe and an early Easter peak.
Higher fuel and staff costs, and strikes by Ryanair pilots and international air traffic controllers (ATC), also affected 
financial performance, it said.
"Traffic grew 7 per cent, to 37.6 million, despite over 2,500 flight cancellations caused by ATC staff shortages and 
ATC strikes," Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary said.
But Ryanair's low fares delivered "an industry-leading 96-per-cent load factor," O'Leary said.
Ryanair said it still expected to achieve its annual profit forecast of 1.25 billion euros to 1.35 billion euros.
The airline said it had introduced measures to make Ryanair more attractive to pilots and cabin crew, including a 
pay increase, improved training and trade union recognition.
Despite signing union recognition agreements in Britain and Italy, and in Germany for cabin crew, the airline said it 
still suffered two "unnecessary strikes" by about 25 per cent of Irish-based pilots this month, while cabin crew have 
threatened strikes in Spain, Portugal and Belgium.
"If these unnecessary strikes continue to damage customer confidence and forward prices/yields in certain country 
markets, then we will have to review our winter schedule," it warned.
Ryanair profits fall 20 per cent in first quarter
Editorial contactsEditing by: Miranda Lee Murray, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair profits fall 20 per cent in first quarter
Ryanair profits fall 20 per cent in first quarter
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 23, 2018 Monday 12:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 280 words
Body
       LONDON (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair reported a 20-per-cent fall in profits in the first quarter of its financial year on 
Monday, blaming lower fares and higher fuel and pilot costs, but the low-cost airline insisted that it remains on track 
to hit its annual target.  The airline said its net profit dropped to 319 million euros (373 million dollars) in the quarter 
ended June 30, as average fares fell 4 per cent amid some overcapacity in Europe and an early Easter peak.  
Higher fuel and staff costs, and strikes by Ryanair pilots and international air traffic controllers (ATC), also affected 
financial performance, it said. 
 'Traffic grew 7 per cent, to 37.6 million, despite over 2,500 flight cancellations caused by ATC staff shortages and 
ATC strikes,' Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary said.  But Ryanair's low fares delivered 'an industry-leading 
96-per-cent load factor,' O'Leary said.  Ryanair said it still expected to achieve its annual profit forecast of 1.25 
billion euros to 1.35 billion euros.  The airline said it had introduced measures to make Ryanair more attractive to 
pilots and cabin crew, including a pay increase, improved training and trade union recognition.  Despite signing 
union recognition agreements in Britain and Italy, and in Germany for cabin crew, the airline said it still suffered two 
'unnecessary strikes' by about 25 per cent of Irish-based pilots this month, while cabin crew have threatened strikes 
in Spain, Portugal and Belgium.  'If these unnecessary strikes continue to damage customer confidence and 
forward prices/yields in certain country markets, then we will have to review our winter schedule,' it warned.   
Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Principal Financial Group Inc. Raises Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Principal Financial Group Inc. Raises Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
July 23, 2018 Monday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 688 words
Body
Ryanair logo Principal Financial Group Inc. boosted its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 0.2% 
in the 1st quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). The fund owned 673,871 shares of the transportation company's stock after purchasing an 
additional 1,431 shares during the period. Principal Financial Group Inc. owned about 0.29% of Ryanair worth 
$82,785,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
A number of other large investors also recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. Bank of New York Mellon Corp 
lifted its stake in  Ryanair by 2.8% in the 4th quarter. Bank of New York Mellon Corp now owns 139,612 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $14,547,000 after purchasing an additional 3,774 shares during the 
last quarter.  Geode Capital Management LLC lifted its stake in  Ryanair by 3.8% in the 4th quarter. Geode Capital 
Management LLC now owns 152,077 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $15,844,000 after 
purchasing an additional 5,537 shares during the last quarter.  Amundi Pioneer Asset Management Inc. bought a 
new position in  Ryanair in the 4th quarter valued at approximately $2,094,000.  Advisor Group Inc. lifted its stake in  
Ryanair by 82.2% in the 4th quarter. Advisor Group Inc. now owns 7,297 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $761,000 after purchasing an additional 3,292 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Goldman 
Sachs Group Inc. lifted its stake in  Ryanair by 25.2% in the 4th quarter. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. now owns 
116,474 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $12,135,000 after purchasing an additional 23,471 
shares during the last quarter. 43.70% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Several equities analysts recently commented on the stock. BidaskClub raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Monday, June 25th. Deutsche Bank  reissued a "buy" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. Exane BNP Paribas downgraded shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas downgraded shares 
of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, 
ValuEngine  downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Wednesday, 
May 9th. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have assigned  a hold rating and three have 
given a buy rating to the stock. The stock presently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and a consensus target price 
of $138.00. 
Principal Financial Group Inc. Raises Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Ryanair opened at $116.70 on Monday, Marketbeat  reports. The firm has a market cap of $27.33 billion, a PE ratio 
of 16.55 and a beta of 0.67. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $101.10 and a 52-week high of $127.61. 
The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, beating the Thomson Reuters' consensus 
estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus 
estimate of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%.  research analysts 
predict that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post 6.72 EPS for the current year.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: Earnings Per Share (EPS)  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Q1 Profit Falls; Sees Weaker Pricing Environment
Ryanair Q1 Profit Falls; Sees Weaker Pricing Environment
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 23, 2018 Monday 7:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 424 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported that its profit attributable to equity 
holders of parent for the first-quarter declined to 309.2 million euros or 0.2637 euros per share from 397.1 million 
euros or 0.3238 euros per share last year.  Profit, excluding exceptional items, fell by 20% to 319 million euros due 
to lower fares, the absence of half of Easter in the quarter, higher oil prices and pilot costs.  Traffic grew 7% to 37.6 
million, despite over 2,500 flight cancellations caused by ATC staff shortages and ATC strikes. 
Ryanair's lower fares delivered an industry leading 96% load factor.  Total operating revenues from continuing 
operations rose to 2.08 billion euros from 1.91 billion euros in the previous year.   Ryanair said it continues to see 
overcapacity in the European market, with Germany in particular very price competitive this summer. The first-
quarter fares fell 4% to under 39 euros and it expects this weaker pricing environment (due to the World Cup, the 
Northern European heat wave and customer uncertainty about pilot strikes) to continue.   The company continues 
to expect profit after tax for fiscal year 2019 to be in a range of 1.25 billion euros - 1.35 billion euros. While the first-
quarter fares were marginally stronger than previously expected, the recent weaker fare environment and the 
expected impact of crew strikes on forward pricing mean that the second-quarter fares will only rise by about 1% 
(previously guided +4%).  The company said, 'With almost zero H2 visibility, our H2 guidance of broadly flat fares 
remains unchanged at this time. Ancillary revenue continues to perform well but will not offset a \xA4430m higher 
fuel bill or a 6% increase in ex-fuel unit costs.'   Ryanair said it remains concerned by the danger of a hard ('no-
deal') Brexit in March 2019. While there is a view that a 21-month transition agreement from March 2019 to 
December 2020 will be implemented (and extended), recent events in the UK political sphere have added to this 
uncertainty, and it believes that the risk of a hard Brexit is being underestimated. It is likely that in the event of a 
hard Brexit its  UK shareholders will be treated as non-EU. It  may be forced to restrict the voting rights of all non-
EU shareholders in the event of a hard Brexit, to ensure that Ryanair remains majority owned and controlled by EU 
shareholders.  Ryanair noted that it has applied for a UK AOC to protect its domestic UK routes and hope to receive 
it before the end of 2018.      
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
Ryanair Q1 Profit Falls; Sees Weaker Pricing Environment
End of Document
European Shares Fall For Third Day As Trade Tensions Mount
European Shares Fall For Third Day As Trade Tensions Mount
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 23, 2018 Monday 11:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 300 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - European stocks fell on Monday as trade tensions persisted and 
investors braced for a busy week of corporate earnings.  The U.S. dollar slumped after U.S. President Donald 
Trump accused the European Union and China of manipulating their currencies.  In addition, Trump talked of more 
tariffs on China and continued his attack on the Federal Reserve for raising interest rates, saying tightening 
penalizes the U.S. for doing well. 
 Meanwhile, the weekend's G20 meeting of finance ministers in Argentina did little to allay fears of a global trade 
war.  Investors looked ahead to an important meeting on trade between Trump and European Commission 
President Jean-Claude Juncker at the White House on Wednesday, with EU officials saying they have low 
expectations for a positive outcome.   The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index was down 0.12 percent at 
385.16, on track for its third straight session of losses.   The German DAX was down about 0.1 percent, while 
France's CAC 40 index and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 were down around 0.3 percent each.   Fiat Chrysler Automobiles 
NV dropped 2.3 percent. The company replaced ailing CEO Sergio Marchionne with Mike Manley.  Dutch consumer 
electronics giant Philips declined 1.4 percent after reporting a fall in Q2 net profit, reflecting loss from discontinued 
operations.   Julius Baer Gruppe fell more than 4 percent. The Swiss private bank warned that clients are becoming 
more cautious due to rising trade tensions.   Discount airline Ryanair Holdings fell as much as 5 percent as it battles 
a series of labor strikes.  WPP jumped more than 2 percent in London. Sky News reported that the British 
advertising giant is in talks to sell a minority stake in its Chinese unit to Alibaba, Tencent and China Media.      
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Announces Earnings Results
Ryanair (RYAAY) Announces Earnings Results
American Banking and Market News
July 23, 2018 Monday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 343 words
Body
Ryanair logo Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) announced its earnings results on Monday. The transportation company 
reported $1.54 EPS for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.55 by ($0.01),            
MarketWatch Earnings  reports. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%.  
Ryanair opened at $116.70 on Monday, Marketbeat  reports. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a 
quick ratio of 1.23 and a current ratio of 1.23. Ryanair has a 12 month low of $101.10 and a 12 month high of 
$127.61. The stock has a market capitalization of $27.33 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.55 and a beta of 
0.67.  
A number of equities research analysts have commented on the company. BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Zacks Investment Research  cut Ryanair 
from a "buy" rating to a "sell" rating in a report on Friday, April 20th. Deutsche Bank cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating 
to a "hold" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Exane BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to 
a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, BidaskClub cut Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a 
"buy" rating in a report on Monday, May 14th. Three research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six 
have given a hold rating and three have assigned  a buy rating to the stock. The stock  has an average rating of 
"Hold" and a consensus target price of $138.00. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Should I follow buy, hold and sell recommendations?  
Earnings History for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 23, 2018 Monday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 1082 words
Byline: William Heaney, +49 30 2852 31472, <, international@dpa.com, ;
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the weekly planner please call or email the dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-
Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 8064 Email: 
international@dpa.com
MONDAY, JULY 23
AMSTERDAM: World AIDS conference begins (runs until Friday).
MANILA: Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte to deliver state of the nation address in Congress.
*PARIS: France's interior minister is questioned by lawmakers about an aide to the president who was filmed 
beating a May Day protester.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CALIFORNIA:: Google's parent company Alphabet reports second quarter results.
DUBLIN: Ryanair reports first quarter results.
HAMBURG: German Open tennis championships continue (until Sunday).
CARCASSONNE, FRANCE: Tour de France rest day.
DUISBURG, GERMANY: "Night Of 1,000 Lights" commemorates victims of Love Parade crowd disaster on July 24, 
2010, when 21 people died and 652 were injured.
_____________________________________________
TUESDAY, JULY 24
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
*BRUSSELS: EU Commission fleshes out proposals for migrant reception centres in Europe and disembarkation 
platforms in Northern Africa.
BERLIN: German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer presents domestic intelligence agency report.
WASHINGTON: Former White House press secretary Sean Spicer publishes book.
ANKARA: Turkey's central bank holds monetary policy meeting.
WASHINGTON: US decides whether to impose tariffs on olive imports.
WASHINGTON: Harley Davidson reports quarterly financial results.
PARIS: Automotive giant Groupe PSA - makers of Citroen, Ambassador, Opel, Peugeot and Vauxhall vehicles - 
announces first half 2018 results.
TOKYO: Two-year countdown to the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics.
CARCASSONNE, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 16 to Bagneres-de-Luchon.
DUISBURG, GERMANY: Eighth anniversary of the Love Parade crowd disaster when 21 people died and 652 were 
injured.
_____________________________________________
WEDNESDAY, JULY 25
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan holds parliamentary elections.
WASHINGTON: European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker meets US President Donald Trump at the 
White House for trade talks.
JOHANNESBURG: BRICS Summit held in South Africa, bringing together the emerging nations of Brazil, Russia, 
India, China and South Africa.
BERLIN/TOKYO: German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas departs for his first trip to Asia, starting in Japan (until 
Thursday).
WASHINGTON: Trial begins of Paul Manafort, US president Donald Trump's former campaign manager, in Virginia.
WASHINGTON: US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to testify in Senate foreign relations committee.
WASHINGTON: US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo hosts meeting to discuss ways to advance the cause of 
religious freedom around the world.
LONDON: Fiat Chrysler presents second quarter results.
BERLIN: Deutsche Bank presents second quarter results.
BERLIN: German rail operator Deutsche Bahn first half quarter results.
INTERNATIONAL: Several Ryanair flights in Europe to be cancelled due to strikes.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on Bulgarian denial to grant Palestinian asylum.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on Dyson challenge against other vacuum cleaner manufacturers.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on challenge over Kit Kat shape.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on definition of genetically modified organisms.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on exemption for energy-intensive companies from German energy surcharge.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on extradition to Poland, other cases relating to European arrest warrants.
KOUROU: Ariane-5 rocket launches with four more satellites for the European Gallileo project.
KINSHASA: WHO to announce the official end of Congo's Ebola outbreak.
ZIRNDORF, GERMANY: German cave diving expert Nick Vollmar returns home after helping save boys trapped in 
cave in Thailand.
VENICE, ITALY: Venice film festival unveils programme for 2018.
BAGNERES-DE-LUCHON, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 17 to Saint-Lary-Soulan Col du Portet.
BAYREUTH, GERMANY: Bayreuth Festival specializing in the operatic works of Richard Wagner begins (runs until 
August 29).
_____________________________________________
THURSDAY, JULY 26
*WASHINGTON: Court deadline for the US government to reunify migrant children separated from their parents
SEOUL: German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas visits South Korea, may also visit North Korean border.
HAVANA: Cuba celebrates National Rebellion Day.
PARIS: French Senate to begin discussion of "fake news" laws.
FRANKFURT: European Central Bank council meeting with interest rate decision.
OSLO: Norwegian state-controlled energy group Equinor reports Q2 results.
TOKYO: Nissan Motor quarterly earnings report.
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON, US: Amazon reports second quarter results.
KARLSRUHE, GERMANY: Germany's top criminal and private court to issue verdict in case of Lufthansa against 
the federal government regarding the high costs of having sky marshals on board.
TRIE-SUR-BAISE, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 18 to Pau.
GIFHORN, GERMANY: First joint Muslim-Christian kindergarten to open in Germany.
NEW YORK: Home of US civil rights activist Rosa Parks up for auction.
LONDON: Singer Mick Jagger turns 75.
_____________________________________________
FRIDAY, JULY 27
BUENOS AIRES: G20 ministers for agriculture meet.
DURBAN, SOUTH AFRICA: South Africa's former President Jacob Zuma to appear in court in his corruption trial.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
STOCKHOLM/GOTHENBURG: Europride co-hosted by two Swedish cities (runs until August 5).
LOURDES, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 19 to Laruns.
INTERNATIONAL: Longest total lunar eclipse of the century, expected to last over 100 minutes, will be visible in 
large parts of Australia, Asia, Africa, Europe and South America.
_____________________________________________
SATURDAY, JULY 28
CAIRO: An Egyptian court is expected to rule in a mass trial of 739 people including leader of the now-banned 
Muslim Brotherhood, Mohammed Badie.
BERLIN: Annual Pride festival, known locally as Christopher Street Day.
HAMBURG: German Open semifinals.
SAINT-PEE-SUR-NIVELLE, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 20 to Espelette.
_____________________________________________
SUNDAY, JULY 29
PHNOM PENH: Parliamentary elections in Cambodia.
BAMAKO: Presidential elections in Mali.
HAMBURG: German Open finals.
BUDAPEST: Hungarian Formula 1 Grand Prix 2018.
HOUILLES, FRANCE: Tour de France final stage to Paris Champs-Elysees.
MIAMI, FLORIDA, US: International Champions Cup: FC Bayern v Manchester City, in Hard Rock Stadium.
BERLIN: Joan Baez holds concert in the Spandau Citadel as part of her "Fare Thee Well Tour."
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 23, 2018 Monday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 1082 words
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the weekly planner please call or email the dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-
Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 8064 Email: 
international@dpa.com
MONDAY, JULY 23
AMSTERDAM: World AIDS conference begins (runs until Friday).
MANILA: Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte to deliver state of the nation address in Congress.
*PARIS: France's interior minister is questioned by lawmakers about an aide to the president who was filmed 
beating a May Day protester.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CALIFORNIA:: Google's parent company Alphabet reports second quarter results.
DUBLIN: Ryanair reports first quarter results.
HAMBURG: German Open tennis championships continue (until Sunday).
CARCASSONNE, FRANCE: Tour de France rest day.
DUISBURG, GERMANY: "Night Of 1,000 Lights" commemorates victims of Love Parade crowd disaster on July 24, 
2010, when 21 people died and 652 were injured.
_____________________________________________
TUESDAY, JULY 24
*BRUSSELS: EU Commission fleshes out proposals for migrant reception centres in Europe and disembarkation 
platforms in Northern Africa.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
BERLIN: German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer presents domestic intelligence agency report.
WASHINGTON: Former White House press secretary Sean Spicer publishes book.
ANKARA: Turkey's central bank holds monetary policy meeting.
WASHINGTON: US decides whether to impose tariffs on olive imports.
WASHINGTON: Harley Davidson reports quarterly financial results.
PARIS: Automotive giant Groupe PSA - makers of Citroen, Ambassador, Opel, Peugeot and Vauxhall vehicles - 
announces first half 2018 results.
TOKYO: Two-year countdown to the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics.
CARCASSONNE, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 16 to Bagneres-de-Luchon.
DUISBURG, GERMANY: Eighth anniversary of the Love Parade crowd disaster when 21 people died and 652 were 
injured.
_____________________________________________
WEDNESDAY, JULY 25
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan holds parliamentary elections.
WASHINGTON: European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker meets US President Donald Trump at the 
White House for trade talks.
JOHANNESBURG: BRICS Summit held in South Africa, bringing together the emerging nations of Brazil, Russia, 
India, China and South Africa.
BERLIN/TOKYO: German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas departs for his first trip to Asia, starting in Japan (until 
Thursday).
WASHINGTON: Trial begins of Paul Manafort, US president Donald Trump's former campaign manager, in Virginia.
WASHINGTON: US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to testify in Senate foreign relations committee.
WASHINGTON: US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo hosts meeting to discuss ways to advance the cause of 
religious freedom around the world.
LONDON: Fiat Chrysler presents second quarter results.
BERLIN: Deutsche Bank presents second quarter results.
BERLIN: German rail operator Deutsche Bahn first half quarter results.
INTERNATIONAL: Several Ryanair flights in Europe to be cancelled due to strikes.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on Bulgarian denial to grant Palestinian asylum.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on Dyson challenge against other vacuum cleaner manufacturers.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on challenge over Kit Kat shape.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on definition of genetically modified organisms.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on exemption for energy-intensive companies from German energy surcharge.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on extradition to Poland, other cases relating to European arrest warrants.
KOUROU: Ariane-5 rocket launches with four more satellites for the European Gallileo project.
KINSHASA: WHO to announce the official end of Congo's Ebola outbreak.
ZIRNDORF, GERMANY: German cave diving expert Nick Vollmar returns home after helping save boys trapped in 
cave in Thailand.
VENICE, ITALY: Venice film festival unveils programme for 2018.
BAGNERES-DE-LUCHON, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 17 to Saint-Lary-Soulan Col du Portet.
BAYREUTH, GERMANY: Bayreuth Festival specializing in the operatic works of Richard Wagner begins (runs until 
August 29).
_____________________________________________
THURSDAY, JULY 26
*WASHINGTON: Court deadline for the US government to reunify migrant children separated from their parents
SEOUL: German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas visits South Korea, may also visit North Korean border.
HAVANA: Cuba celebrates National Rebellion Day.
PARIS: French Senate to begin discussion of "fake news" laws.
FRANKFURT: European Central Bank council meeting with interest rate decision.
OSLO: Norwegian state-controlled energy group Equinor reports Q2 results.
TOKYO: Nissan Motor quarterly earnings report.
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON, US: Amazon reports second quarter results.
KARLSRUHE, GERMANY: Germany's top criminal and private court to issue verdict in case of Lufthansa against 
the federal government regarding the high costs of having sky marshals on board.
TRIE-SUR-BAISE, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 18 to Pau.
GIFHORN, GERMANY: First joint Muslim-Christian kindergarten to open in Germany.
NEW YORK: Home of US civil rights activist Rosa Parks up for auction.
LONDON: Singer Mick Jagger turns 75.
_____________________________________________
FRIDAY, JULY 27
BUENOS AIRES: G20 ministers for agriculture meet.
DURBAN, SOUTH AFRICA: South Africa's former President Jacob Zuma to appear in court in his corruption trial.
STOCKHOLM/GOTHENBURG: Europride co-hosted by two Swedish cities (runs until August 5).
LOURDES, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 19 to Laruns.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
INTERNATIONAL: Longest total lunar eclipse of the century, expected to last over 100 minutes, will be visible in 
large parts of Australia, Asia, Africa, Europe and South America.
_____________________________________________
SATURDAY, JULY 28
CAIRO: An Egyptian court is expected to rule in a mass trial of 739 people including leader of the now-banned 
Muslim Brotherhood, Mohammed Badie.
BERLIN: Annual Pride festival, known locally as Christopher Street Day.
HAMBURG: German Open semifinals.
SAINT-PEE-SUR-NIVELLE, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 20 to Espelette.
_____________________________________________
SUNDAY, JULY 29
PHNOM PENH: Parliamentary elections in Cambodia.
BAMAKO: Presidential elections in Mali.
HAMBURG: German Open finals.
BUDAPEST: Hungarian Formula 1 Grand Prix 2018.
HOUILLES, FRANCE: Tour de France final stage to Paris Champs-Elysees.
MIAMI, FLORIDA, US: International Champions Cup: FC Bayern v Manchester City, in Hard Rock Stadium.
BERLIN: Joan Baez holds concert in the Spandau Citadel as part of her "Fare Thee Well Tour."
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Laudamotion facing 'difficult' first year: Ryanair Ryanair is expecting its Laudamotion affiliate to lose around 150 
million ($176 million) in its first year, b....
Laudamotion facing 'difficult' first year: Ryanair; Ryanair is expecting its 
Laudamotion affiliate to lose around 150 million ($176 million) in its first 
year, but is forecasting break-even by the third year of operations.
Flight International
July 23, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 315 words
Body
Ryanair is expecting its Laudamotion affiliate to lose around 150 million ($176 million) in its first year, but is 
forecasting break-even by the third year of operations.
The Irish budget carrier has been cleared to increase its 24.9% shareholding in Laudamotion to 75% but says the 
affiliate is facing a “very difficult” first year, the result of “substantial” costs – including high fuel prices.
Ryanair says the late release of Laudamotion schedules and lower-than-expected fares are contributing to the 
situation, and it also claims interference from Lufthansa.
Laudamotion’s financial performance has not been incorporated into Ryanair’s first-quarter results to 30 June, and 
Ryanair is leaving its full-year guidance unchanged.
But the effects of higher fuel expenditure, lower fares and crew strikes led to a 20% fall in first-quarter net profit to 
319 million.
Passenger numbers were up 7% and revenues by 9%, despite a 4% decline in average fares. But higher fuel and 
staff costs offset strong ancillary revenue growth in the quarter.
The carrier says first-quarter fares were “marginally” stronger than forecast, but the rise in second-quarter fares will 
be lower – just 1% compared with the predicted 4%.
While Ryanair has been taking steps to recognise unions, it says it has experienced “unnecessary” strikes, and is 
expecting further industrial action over the peak summer period.
“We are not prepared to conceded to unreasonable demands that will compromise either our low fares or our 
highly-efficient model,” it says.
Laudamotion facing 'difficult' first year: Ryanair Ryanair is expecting its Laudamotion affiliate to lose around 150 
million ($176 million) in its first year, b....
“If these unnecessary strikes continue to damage customer confidence and forward prices [and] yields in certain 
country markets, then we will have to review our winter schedule.”
Ryanair warns that such measures could lead to fleet reductions and job losses. “We cannot allow our customers’ 
flights to be unnecessarily disrupted by a tiny minority of pilots,” it says.
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
BT, Virgin Media and Vodafone come into focus LONDON REPORT
BT, Virgin Media and Vodafone come into focus; LONDON REPORT
City A.M.
July 23, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 347 words
Body
THE COMING week sees the results season kick off in the UK, with the likes of media and tech stocks BT, ITV, 
Pearson and Vodafone, defensive favourites Astrazeneca, British American Tobacco, Diageo and Glaxosmithkline 
all posting earings. Today, Ascential, Paragon Banking, Petra Diamonds, Ryanair and SThree report, with earnings 
posted tomorrow by Britvic, Drax, IG Group, Fever-Tree, Hammerson, PZ Cussons, Spectris and Unite.
On Wednesday, there will be updates from 3i Group, Antofagasta, Brewin Dolphin, CapCo, Croda, Fresnillo, 
Glaxosmithkline, Indivior, Informa, IP Group, ITV, Marston's, Metro Bank, Pearson, Primary Health Properties, 
QinetiQ , Rathbone Brothers, Staffline Group, Tullow Oil, Victrex, Vodafone and Wizz Air.
Thursday sees finals from Diageo, Renishaw and Sky, interims from Anglo American, Astrazeneca, Bodycote, BAT, 
Countrywide, Howden Joinery, Inchcape, Intu Properties, Jardine Lloyd Thompson, Morgan Advanced Materials, 
Lancashire, National Express, Relx, Shell, Schroders, Segro, Smith & Nephew, UBM, Vesuvius and Virgin Money.
There will also be trading updates from DMGT, Polymetal, Sophos Group and Tate & Lyle.
Friday will be relatively calm with reports from BT, CYBG, Equiniti, Greencoat UK Wind, Jupiter Fund Management, 
Reckitt Benckiser and Rightmove.
On the macroeconomic front, the focus will be on Thursday's European Central Bank (ECB).
However, it is likely to be a low-key affair following the decision last month to wind down the ECB's quantitative 
easing programme. RBC Capital Markets said: "It's very early days but, so far, the economic data are largely in line 
with the latest set of ECB staff projections which should allow President [Mario] Draghi to express some satisfaction 
that things are proceeding as the ECB expected when it made that announcement, even if trade war threats are 
likely to loom large in its thinking."
BT, Virgin Media and Vodafone come into focus LONDON REPORT
TOP RISERS 1. DS Smith up 3.03 per cent 2. British Amer. Tob. up 2.54 per cent 3. Ocado up 2.41 per cent TOP 
FALLERS 1. Rentokil down 1.88 per cent 2. Just East down 1.71 per cent 3. Easyjet down 1.64 per cent
Graphic
 
Vodafone is among a number of big firms reporting this week
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair 's summer Airlines. Industrial relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest 
among its own employees and Europe's air traff....
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair's summer; Airlines. Industrial 
relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest among its own employees and 
Europe's air traffic controllers
Financial Times (London, England)
July 23, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 1254 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Headwinds On Wednesday, between cheery messages about its destination of the day, Ryanair tweeted that it 
would be cancelling up to 300 of its 2,400 daily flights on July 25 and 26: cabin crew in Belgium, Portugal and Spain 
were going on strike.
The action covers more than a quarter of the budget airline's daily flights to and from Spain, more in the other 
countries. It apologised, called the strikes "entirely unjustified" and informed its 380,000 followers that its cabin crew 
earn up to (EURO)40,000 a year.
This alternation between appealing and apologetic has become standard for Ryanair, which has been hit by strikes 
and shortages on two fronts. As well as its own staff, Europe's restive air traffic controllers are hurting the airline 
and its competitors.
Ryanair, which was Europe's busiest airline last year with 128.8m passengers, releases its first-quarter results 
today, and ATC shortages and the threat of further strikes loom over them. Bernstein expects 2018-19 profit before 
tax to be the lowest in at least three years; HSBC's forecast for the quarter is similar.
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair 's summer Airlines. Industrial relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest 
among its own employees and Europe's air traff....
The unions have a list of complaints, underpinned by Ryanair's refusal to hire staff under local laws, with attendant 
rights and benefits; all cabin crew are employed under Irish law.
A member of SITCPLA, which represents Ryanair's Spanish cabin crew, described having to use the EU's health 
insurance card to receive medical treatment in Spain because, despite being resident, they did not pay local social 
taxes, and said staff could not get a mortgage in Spain because their payroll was in Ireland.
Peter Bellew, Ryanair's chief operating officer, said Irish employment contracts made it easier for staff to move 
around its network, as well as providing generous benefits. He added that Irish legislation from 2012 allowed staff to 
choose to pay local social taxes.
The union member said vanishingly few cabin crew earned (EURO)40,000: many colleagues in Spain were on 
(EURO)14,000 or, if based in Poland, just over (EURO)8,000.
"It's not just about wages; it's about the hostile work environment and constant bullying, disciplinary procedures for 
calling in sick more than twice a year, threats to transfer crew to Lithuania if we don't meet our sales targets" for 
onboard merchandise.
Darrell Hughes, the airline's HR director, denied the allegations and said cabin crew were not earning 
(EURO)14,000. "If it were true, they'd leave," he said.
Two people involved in the union's negotiations with Ryanair said even representatives of the airline threatened it 
would quit Spain if the strike went ahead.
Antonio Escobar, who handles press for SITCPLA, said that with 13 bases in Spain and 830 flights a day, this 
seemed so preposterous that people in the meeting burst out laughing.
Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair's chief marketing officer, denied any such threat had been made. It was "utter rubbish spun 
by the union".
But strikes are growing in frequency. In December 2017, German pilots walked out for a day, and cabin crew 
stopped work for three days in Portugal. Irish pilots went on strike on July 12 and 20 and plan to do so tomorrow. 
The airline's German pilots' union has just balloted its members on further action. Strikes are costly: when a flight is 
delayed or cancelled, the airline generally has to pay passengers compensation under EU rules. Flights halted in 
September and October 2017 after a rostering failure cost Ryanair (EURO)25m.
Even in countries where Ryanair has agreed to recognise trade unions, there is discord. Brian Strutton, general 
secretary of Balpa, said the British pilots' union had been negotiating with Ryanair on pay, holidays and seniority, 
but "progress has been slow ... The basic problem is that, frankly, Ryanair is still coming to terms with what dealing 
with trade unions is all about and they are struggling to adjust."
The Spanish cabin crew member said they were hopeful, but not confident, of winning the fight with Ryanair: 
"Unless there's a structural change in management, this is going to be a war of attrition ... strike after strike after 
strike. People are fed up."
But Ryanair's Mr Hughes said: "You've got some unions who seem intent on having these protests but some other 
unions are very businesslike and they're seeing results - recognition agreements and dealing with the issues that 
matter."
Andrew Lobbenberg of HSBC said Ryanair had yet to begin to crack the problem: "Thus far we've got several 
unions that they've recognised but ... they have not negotiated a single collective labour agreement." He said that 
cabin crew could be hired relatively quickly but a global shortage of pilots was leading to pay inflation.
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair 's summer Airlines. Industrial relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest 
among its own employees and Europe's air traff....
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, is not too concerned that resolving the strikes will hurt Ryanair's results. Labour 
disputes "are in the margin" in terms of costs, she said, and "they've already guided to (EURO)200m of additional 
labour costs".
However, she added: "There's a risk that you start to see changes in working practices ... that lead to a less efficient 
labour base."
On the day it apologised for its cabin crew strikes, Ryanair weighed in on the other problem grounding its fleet. It 
said 11 per cent of its 2,400 daily flights had been disrupted by staff shortages at French, German, Spanish and 
Greek air traffic control.
"We sincerely regret these delays," it tweeted, calling on national governments and the European Commission to 
deal with shortages "disrupting millions of Europe's consumers this summer".
Here Ryanair has found powerful allies. In a hastily arranged press conference, apparently broadcast from a 
smartphone, Michael O'Leary, chief executive, and Willie Walsh, chief executive of British Airways owner IAG and 
his sometime rival, united to condemn ATC strikes and staff shortages.
The pair announced they would file a complaint with Bru ssels on the grounds that the regular ATC strikes restricted 
movement in contravention of the EU's fundamental "four freedoms".
Mr O'Leary, using his customarily colourful language, said of the French controllers: "These guys are frigging with 
the figures and covering up their staff shortages." Striking was a "national pastime in France".
Last week they gained another supporter. Johan Lundgren, easyJet's chief executive, announced that his airline 
would also be submitting a separate complaint to the commission. "Disruption this year so far has been equivalent 
to all of 2017, which has been challenging ... and we estimate this will not go away," he said.
ATC problems and extreme weather cost easyJet £25m more in its third quarter this year than last.
Eurocontrol, the EU's air traffic control agency, has projected the total minutes of delay for 2018 will rise 53 per cent 
from 2017 to 14.3m.
A report from PwC, the consultancy, found air traffic control strikes had cut EU gross domestic product by 
(EURO)10.4bn between 2010 and 2015 through aviation, tourism and freight losses.
Whether a legal complaint can resolve the matter is unclear. Peter Willis, at law firm Bird & Bird, has previously 
said: "Clearly any complaint in an area like this is going to be as much about politics as about the substance of EU 
law, and so a key objective of this action will be to put political pressure on the French government rather than 
necessarily to deliver some sort of legal ruling."
Ryanair must steer a tricky course this summer between placating its staff, keeping down costs and managing the 
ATC disruption. However it gets through these obstacles, it is its passengers who may end up bearing the costs.
Graphic
 
Brian Lawless/PA Wire
Load-Date: July 22, 2018
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair 's summer Airlines. Industrial relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest 
among its own employees and Europe's air traff....
End of Document
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair 's summer Airlines. Industrial relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest 
among its own employees and Europe's air traff....
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair's summer; Airlines. Industrial 
relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest among its own employees and 
Europe's air traffic controllers
Financial Times (London, England)
July 23, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 16
Length: 1253 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
On Wednesday, between cheery messages about its destination of the day, Ryanair tweeted that it would be 
cancelling up to 300 of its 2,400 daily flights on July 25 and 26: cabin crew in Belgium, Portugal and Spain were 
going on strike.
The action covers more than a quarter of the budget airline's daily flights to and from Spain, more in the other 
countries. It apologised, called the strikes "entirely unjustified" and informed its 380,000 followers that its cabin crew 
earn up to (EURO)40,000 a year.
This alternation between appealing and apologetic has become standard for Ryanair, which has been hit by strikes 
and shortages on two fronts. As well as its own staff, Europe's restive air traffic controllers are hurting the airline 
and its competitors.
Ryanair, which was Europe's busiest airline last year with 128.8m passengers, releases its first-quarter results 
today, and ATC shortages and the threat of further strikes loom over them. Bernstein expects 2018-19 profit before 
tax to be the lowest in at least three years; HSBC's forecast for the quarter is similar.
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair 's summer Airlines. Industrial relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest 
among its own employees and Europe's air traff....
The unions have a list of complaints, underpinned by Ryanair's refusal to hire staff under local laws, with attendant 
rights and benefits; all cabin crew are employed under Irish law.
A member of SITCPLA, which represents Ryanair's Spanish cabin crew, described having to use the EU's health 
insurance card to receive medical treatment in Spain because, despite being resident, they did not pay local social 
taxes, and said staff could not get a mortgage in Spain because their payroll was in Ireland.
Peter Bellew, Ryanair's chief operating officer, said Irish employment contracts made it easier for staff to move 
around its network, as well as providing generous benefits. He added that Irish legislation from 2012 allowed staff to 
choose to pay local social taxes.
The union member said vanishingly few cabin crew earned (EURO)40,000: many colleagues in Spain were on 
(EURO)14,000 or, if based in Poland, just over (EURO)8,000.
"It's not just about wages; it's about the hostile work environment and constant bullying, disciplinary procedures for 
calling in sick more than twice a year, threats to transfer crew to Lithuania if we don't meet our sales targets" for 
onboard merchandise.
Darrell Hughes, the airline's HR director, denied the allegations and said cabin crew were not earning 
(EURO)14,000. "If it were true, they'd leave," he said.
Two people involved in the union's negotiations with Ryanair said even representatives of the airline threatened it 
would quit Spain if the strike went ahead.
Antonio Escobar, who handles press for SITCPLA, said that with 13 bases in Spain and 830 flights a day, this 
seemed so preposterous that people in the meeting burst out laughing.
Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair's chief marketing officer, denied any such threat had been made. It was "utter rubbish spun 
by the union".
But strikes are growing in frequency. In December 2017, German pilots walked out for a day, and cabin crew 
stopped work for three days in Portugal. Irish pilots went on strike on July 12 and 20 and plan to do so tomorrow. 
The airline's German pilots' union has just balloted its members on further action. Strikes are costly: when a flight is 
delayed or cancelled, the airline generally has to pay passengers compensation under EU rules. Flights halted in 
September and October 2017 after a rostering failure cost Ryanair (EURO)25m.
Even in countries where Ryanair has agreed to recognise trade unions, there is discord. Brian Strutton, general 
secretary of Balpa, said the British pilots' union had been negotiating with Ryanair on pay, holidays and seniority, 
but "progress has been slow ... The basic problem is that, frankly, Ryanair is still coming to terms with what dealing 
with trade unions is all about and they are struggling to adjust."
The Spanish cabin crew member said they were hopeful, but not confident, of winning the fight with Ryanair: 
"Unless there's a structural change in management, this is going to be a war of attrition ... strike after strike after 
strike. People are fed up."
But Ryanair's Mr Hughes said: "You've got some unions who seem intent on having these protests but some other 
unions are very businesslike and they're seeing results - recognition agreements and dealing with the issues that 
matter."
Andrew Lobbenberg of HSBC said Ryanair had yet to begin to crack the problem: "Thus far we've got several 
unions that they've recognised but ... they have not negotiated a single collective labour agreement." He said that 
cabin crew could be hired relatively quickly but a global shortage of pilots was leading to pay inflation.
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair 's summer Airlines. Industrial relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest 
among its own employees and Europe's air traff....
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, is not too concerned that resolving the strikes will hurt Ryanair's results. Labour 
disputes "are in the margin" in terms of costs, she said, and "they've already guided to (EURO)200m of additional 
labour costs".
However, she added: "There's a risk that you start to see changes in working practices ... that lead to a less efficient 
labour base."
On the day it apologised for its cabin crew strikes, Ryanair weighed in on the other problem grounding its fleet. It 
said 11 per cent of its 2,400 daily flights had been disrupted by staff shortages at French, German, Spanish and 
Greek air traffic control.
"We sincerely regret these delays," it tweeted, calling on national governments and the European Commission to 
deal with shortages "disrupting millions of Europe's consumers this summer".
Here Ryanair has found powerful allies. In a hastily arranged press conference, apparently broadcast from a 
smartphone, Michael O'Leary, chief executive, and Willie Walsh, chief executive of British Airways owner IAG and 
his sometime rival, united to condemn ATC strikes and staff shortages.
The pair announced they would file a complaint with Bru ssels on the grounds that the regular ATC strikes restricted 
movement in contravention of the EU's fundamental "four freedoms".
Mr O'Leary, using his customarily colourful language, said of the French controllers: "These guys are frigging with 
the figures and covering up their staff shortages." Striking was a "national pastime in France".
Last week they gained another supporter. Johan Lundgren, easyJet's chief executive, announced that his airline 
would also be submitting a separate complaint to the commission. "Disruption this year so far has been equivalent 
to all of 2017, which has been challenging ... and we estimate this will not go away," he said.
ATC problems and extreme weather cost easyJet £25m more in its third quarter this year than last.
Eurocontrol, the EU's air traffic control agency, has projected the total minutes of delay for 2018 will rise 53 per cent 
from 2017 to 14.3m.
A report from PwC, the consultancy, found air traffic control strikes had cut EU gross domestic product by 
(EURO)10.4bn between 2010 and 2015 through aviation, tourism and freight losses.
Whether a legal complaint can resolve the matter is unclear. Peter Willis, at law firm Bird & Bird, has previously 
said: "Clearly any complaint in an area like this is going to be as much about politics as about the substance of EU 
law, and so a key objective of this action will be to put political pressure on the French government rather than 
necessarily to deliver some sort of legal ruling."
Ryanair must steer a tricky course this summer between placating its staff, keeping down costs and managing the 
ATC disruption. However it gets through these obstacles, it is its passengers who may end up bearing the costs.
Headwinds
Load-Date: July 22, 2018
End of Document
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair 's summer Airlines. Industrial relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest 
among its own employees and Europe's air traff....
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair's summer; Airlines. Industrial 
relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest among its own employees and 
Europe's air traffic controllers
Financial Times (London, England)
July 23, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 16
Length: 1253 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
On Wednesday, between cheery messages about its destination of the day, Ryanair tweeted that it would be 
cancelling up to 300 of its 2,400 daily flights on July 25 and 26: cabin crew in Belgium, Portugal and Spain were 
going on strike.
The action covers more than a quarter of the budget airline's daily flights to and from Spain, more in the other 
countries. It apologised, called the strikes "entirely unjustified" and informed its 380,000 followers that its cabin crew 
earn up to (EURO)40,000 a year.
This alternation between appealing and apologetic has become standard for Ryanair, which has been hit by strikes 
and shortages on two fronts. As well as its own staff, Europe's restive air traffic controllers are hurting the airline 
and its competitors.
Ryanair, which was Europe's busiest airline last year with 128.8m passengers, releases its first-quarter results 
today, and ATC shortages and the threat of further strikes loom over them. Bernstein expects 2018-19 profit before 
tax to be the lowest in at least three years; HSBC's forecast for the quarter is similar.
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair 's summer Airlines. Industrial relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest 
among its own employees and Europe's air traff....
The unions have a list of complaints, underpinned by Ryanair's refusal to hire staff under local laws, with attendant 
rights and benefits; all cabin crew are employed under Irish law.
A member of SITCPLA, which represents Ryanair's Spanish cabin crew, described having to use the EU's health 
insurance card to receive medical treatment in Spain because, despite being resident, they did not pay local social 
taxes, and said staff could not get a mortgage in Spain because their payroll was in Ireland.
Peter Bellew, Ryanair's chief operating officer, said Irish employment contracts made it easier for staff to move 
around its network, as well as providing generous benefits. He added that Irish legislation from 2012 allowed staff to 
choose to pay local social taxes.
The union member said vanishingly few cabin crew earned (EURO)40,000: many colleagues in Spain were on 
(EURO)14,000 or, if based in Poland, just over (EURO)8,000.
"It's not just about wages; it's about the hostile work environment and constant bullying, disciplinary procedures for 
calling in sick more than twice a year, threats to transfer crew to Lithuania if we don't meet our sales targets" for 
onboard merchandise.
Darrell Hughes, the airline's HR director, denied the allegations and said cabin crew were not earning 
(EURO)14,000. "If it were true, they'd leave," he said.
Two people involved in the union's negotiations with Ryanair said even representatives of the airline threatened it 
would quit Spain if the strike went ahead.
Antonio Escobar, who handles press for SITCPLA, said that with 13 bases in Spain and 830 flights a day, this 
seemed so preposterous that people in the meeting burst out laughing.
Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair's chief marketing officer, denied any such threat had been made. It was "utter rubbish spun 
by the union".
But strikes are growing in frequency. In December 2017, German pilots walked out for a day, and cabin crew 
stopped work for three days in Portugal. Irish pilots went on strike on July 12 and 20 and plan to do so tomorrow. 
The airline's German pilots' union has just balloted its members on further action. Strikes are costly: when a flight is 
delayed or cancelled, the airline generally has to pay passengers compensation under EU rules. Flights halted in 
September and October 2017 after a rostering failure cost Ryanair (EURO)25m.
Even in countries where Ryanair has agreed to recognise trade unions, there is discord. Brian Strutton, general 
secretary of Balpa, said the British pilots' union had been negotiating with Ryanair on pay, holidays and seniority, 
but "progress has been slow ... The basic problem is that, frankly, Ryanair is still coming to terms with what dealing 
with trade unions is all about and they are struggling to adjust."
The Spanish cabin crew member said they were hopeful, but not confident, of winning the fight with Ryanair: 
"Unless there's a structural change in management, this is going to be a war of attrition ... strike after strike after 
strike. People are fed up."
But Ryanair's Mr Hughes said: "You've got some unions who seem intent on having these protests but some other 
unions are very businesslike and they're seeing results - recognition agreements and dealing with the issues that 
matter."
Andrew Lobbenberg of HSBC said Ryanair had yet to begin to crack the problem: "Thus far we've got several 
unions that they've recognised but ... they have not negotiated a single collective labour agreement." He said that 
cabin crew could be hired relatively quickly but a global shortage of pilots was leading to pay inflation.
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair 's summer Airlines. Industrial relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest 
among its own employees and Europe's air traff....
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, is not too concerned that resolving the strikes will hurt Ryanair's results. Labour 
disputes "are in the margin" in terms of costs, she said, and "they've already guided to (EURO)200m of additional 
labour costs".
However, she added: "There's a risk that you start to see changes in working practices ... that lead to a less efficient 
labour base."
On the day it apologised for its cabin crew strikes, Ryanair weighed in on the other problem grounding its fleet. It 
said 11 per cent of its 2,400 daily flights had been disrupted by staff shortages at French, German, Spanish and 
Greek air traffic control.
"We sincerely regret these delays," it tweeted, calling on national governments and the European Commission to 
deal with shortages "disrupting millions of Europe's consumers this summer".
Here Ryanair has found powerful allies. In a hastily arranged press conference, apparently broadcast from a 
smartphone, Michael O'Leary, chief executive, and Willie Walsh, chief executive of British Airways owner IAG and 
his sometime rival, united to condemn ATC strikes and staff shortages.
The pair announced they would file a complaint with Bru ssels on the grounds that the regular ATC strikes restricted 
movement in contravention of the EU's fundamental "four freedoms".
Mr O'Leary, using his customarily colourful language, said of the French controllers: "These guys are frigging with 
the figures and covering up their staff shortages." Striking was a "national pastime in France".
Last week they gained another supporter. Johan Lundgren, easyJet's chief executive, announced that his airline 
would also be submitting a separate complaint to the commission. "Disruption this year so far has been equivalent 
to all of 2017, which has been challenging ... and we estimate this will not go away," he said.
ATC problems and extreme weather cost easyJet £25m more in its third quarter this year than last.
Eurocontrol, the EU's air traffic control agency, has projected the total minutes of delay for 2018 will rise 53 per cent 
from 2017 to 14.3m.
A report from PwC, the consultancy, found air traffic control strikes had cut EU gross domestic product by 
(EURO)10.4bn between 2010 and 2015 through aviation, tourism and freight losses.
Whether a legal complaint can resolve the matter is unclear. Peter Willis, at law firm Bird & Bird, has previously 
said: "Clearly any complaint in an area like this is going to be as much about politics as about the substance of EU 
law, and so a key objective of this action will be to put political pressure on the French government rather than 
necessarily to deliver some sort of legal ruling."
Ryanair must steer a tricky course this summer between placating its staff, keeping down costs and managing the 
ATC disruption. However it gets through these obstacles, it is its passengers who may end up bearing the costs.
Headwinds
Load-Date: July 22, 2018
End of Document
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair 's summer Airlines. Industrial relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest 
among its own employees and Europe's air traff....
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair's summer; Airlines. Industrial 
relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest among its own employees and 
Europe's air traffic controllers
Financial Times (London, England)
July 23, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 18
Length: 1253 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
On Wednesday, between cheery messages about its destination of the day, Ryanair tweeted that it would be 
cancelling up to 300 of its 2,400 daily flights on July 25 and 26: cabin crew in Belgium, Portugal and Spain were 
going on strike.
The action covers more than a quarter of the budget airline's daily flights to and from Spain, more in the other 
countries. It apologised, called the strikes "entirely unjustified" and informed its 380,000 followers that its cabin crew 
earn up to (EURO)40,000 a year.
This alternation between appealing and apologetic has become standard for Ryanair, which has been hit by strikes 
and shortages on two fronts. As well as its own staff, Europe's restive air traffic controllers are hurting the airline 
and its competitors.
Ryanair, which was Europe's busiest airline last year with 128.8m passengers, releases its first-quarter results 
today, and ATC shortages and the threat of further strikes loom over them. Bernstein expects 2018-19 profit before 
tax to be the lowest in at least three years; HSBC's forecast for the quarter is similar.
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair 's summer Airlines. Industrial relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest 
among its own employees and Europe's air traff....
The unions have a list of complaints, underpinned by Ryanair's refusal to hire staff under local laws, with attendant 
rights and benefits; all cabin crew are employed under Irish law.
A member of SITCPLA, which represents Ryanair's Spanish cabin crew, described having to use the EU's health 
insurance card to receive medical treatment in Spain because, despite being resident, they did not pay local social 
taxes, and said staff could not get a mortgage in Spain because their payroll was in Ireland.
Peter Bellew, Ryanair's chief operating officer, said Irish employment contracts made it easier for staff to move 
around its network, as well as providing generous benefits. He added that Irish legislation from 2012 allowed staff to 
choose to pay local social taxes.
The union member said vanishingly few cabin crew earned (EURO)40,000: many colleagues in Spain were on 
(EURO)14,000 or, if based in Poland, just over (EURO)8,000.
"It's not just about wages; it's about the hostile work environment and constant bullying, disciplinary procedures for 
calling in sick more than twice a year, threats to transfer crew to Lithuania if we don't meet our sales targets" for 
onboard merchandise.
Darrell Hughes, the airline's HR director, denied the allegations and said cabin crew were not earning 
(EURO)14,000. "If it were true, they'd leave," he said.
Two people involved in the union's negotiations with Ryanair said even representatives of the airline threatened it 
would quit Spain if the strike went ahead.
Antonio Escobar, who handles press for SITCPLA, said that with 13 bases in Spain and 830 flights a day, this 
seemed so preposterous that people in the meeting burst out laughing.
Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair's chief marketing officer, denied any such threat had been made. It was "utter rubbish spun 
by the union".
But strikes are growing in frequency. In December 2017, German pilots walked out for a day, and cabin crew 
stopped work for three days in Portugal. Irish pilots went on strike on July 12 and 20 and plan to do so tomorrow. 
The airline's German pilots' union has just balloted its members on further action. Strikes are costly: when a flight is 
delayed or cancelled, the airline generally has to pay passengers compensation under EU rules. Flights halted in 
September and October 2017 after a rostering failure cost Ryanair (EURO)25m.
Even in countries where Ryanair has agreed to recognise trade unions, there is discord. Brian Strutton, general 
secretary of Balpa, said the British pilots' union had been negotiating with Ryanair on pay, holidays and seniority, 
but "progress has been slow ... The basic problem is that, frankly, Ryanair is still coming to terms with what dealing 
with trade unions is all about and they are struggling to adjust."
The Spanish cabin crew member said they were hopeful, but not confident, of winning the fight with Ryanair: 
"Unless there's a structural change in management, this is going to be a war of attrition ... strike after strike after 
strike. People are fed up."
But Ryanair's Mr Hughes said: "You've got some unions who seem intent on having these protests but some other 
unions are very businesslike and they're seeing results - recognition agreements and dealing with the issues that 
matter."
Andrew Lobbenberg of HSBC said Ryanair had yet to begin to crack the problem: "Thus far we've got several 
unions that they've recognised but ... they have not negotiated a single collective labour agreement." He said that 
cabin crew could be hired relatively quickly but a global shortage of pilots was leading to pay inflation.
Strikes and staff shortages cloud Ryanair 's summer Airlines. Industrial relations ; Budget carrier hit by unrest 
among its own employees and Europe's air traff....
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, is not too concerned that resolving the strikes will hurt Ryanair's results. Labour 
disputes "are in the margin" in terms of costs, she said, and "they've already guided to (EURO)200m of additional 
labour costs".
However, she added: "There's a risk that you start to see changes in working practices ... that lead to a less efficient 
labour base."
On the day it apologised for its cabin crew strikes, Ryanair weighed in on the other problem grounding its fleet. It 
said 11 per cent of its 2,400 daily flights had been disrupted by staff shortages at French, German, Spanish and 
Greek air traffic control.
"We sincerely regret these delays," it tweeted, calling on national governments and the European Commission to 
deal with shortages "disrupting millions of Europe's consumers this summer".
Here Ryanair has found powerful allies. In a hastily arranged press conference, apparently broadcast from a 
smartphone, Michael O'Leary, chief executive, and Willie Walsh, chief executive of British Airways owner IAG and 
his sometime rival, united to condemn ATC strikes and staff shortages.
The pair announced they would file a complaint with Bru ssels on the grounds that the regular ATC strikes restricted 
movement in contravention of the EU's fundamental "four freedoms".
Mr O'Leary, using his customarily colourful language, said of the French controllers: "These guys are frigging with 
the figures and covering up their staff shortages." Striking was a "national pastime in France".
Last week they gained another supporter. Johan Lundgren, easyJet's chief executive, announced that his airline 
would also be submitting a separate complaint to the commission. "Disruption this year so far has been equivalent 
to all of 2017, which has been challenging ... and we estimate this will not go away," he said.
ATC problems and extreme weather cost easyJet £25m more in its third quarter this year than last.
Eurocontrol, the EU's air traffic control agency, has projected the total minutes of delay for 2018 will rise 53 per cent 
from 2017 to 14.3m.
A report from PwC, the consultancy, found air traffic control strikes had cut EU gross domestic product by 
(EURO)10.4bn between 2010 and 2015 through aviation, tourism and freight losses.
Whether a legal complaint can resolve the matter is unclear. Peter Willis, at law firm Bird & Bird, has previously 
said: "Clearly any complaint in an area like this is going to be as much about politics as about the substance of EU 
law, and so a key objective of this action will be to put political pressure on the French government rather than 
necessarily to deliver some sort of legal ruling."
Ryanair must steer a tricky course this summer between placating its staff, keeping down costs and managing the 
ATC disruption. However it gets through these obstacles, it is its passengers who may end up bearing the costs.
Headwinds
Load-Date: July 22, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Fiscal Q1 EPS Misses, Revenue Beats Views
Ryanair Fiscal Q1 EPS Misses, Revenue Beats Views
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 23, 2018 Monday 5:34 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 96 words
Body
 Ireland-based airline company Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) reported Monday fiscal Q1 net profit of EUR0.26 ($0.31) 
per diluted share, down from EUR0.32 per share in the prior year period. Four analysts polled by Capital IQ 
expected EPS of EUR0.28. 
Revenue for the quarter ended June 30 was EUR2.08 billion, up from EUR1.91 billion reported for the same period 
last year, which narrowly beat the EUR2.03 billion mean estimate. 
For fiscal 2019, the company continues to expect profit after tax of EUR1.25 billion to EUR1.35 billion.
Price: 116.70, Change: -1.42, Percent Change: -1.20
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair knocks airline stocks as trade fears dog FTSE
Ryanair knocks airline stocks as trade fears dog FTSE
Citywire
July 23, 2018 Monday 9:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 357 words
Byline: Daniel Grote
Highlight: Fears over global trade tensions send FTSE lower, with airline stocks the biggest fallers on Ryanair 
woes.
Body
 
The FTSE 100 has fallen into the red as fears over global trade tensions continued to dog investors, with airline 
stocks falling to the bottom of the index following a disappointing update from Ryanair (RYA.I).
The UK blue-chip index dropped 48 points, or 0.6%, to 7,635, with EasyJet (EZJ) and British Airways owner 
International Airlines Group (ICAG) the heaviest fallers, down 2.4% at £15.76 and 1.8% lower at 674.8p 
respectively. On the FTSE 250, Wizz Air (WIZZ) was down 2.7% at £36.20.
Airlines suffered after a disappointing update from Irish-listed Ryanair, which sent its shares 6% lower to €14.62.
The company posted a profit of €319 million (£285 million) for the three months to the end of June, down 20% on 
the same period last year but ahead of investor expectations.
But that was overshadowed by the impact of strikes by cabin crews and pilots. The airline said they were one of the 
reasons why average fares were expected to grow by just 1% in the three months to the end of September, down 
from an earlier forecast of 5%.
Liberum analyst Gerald Khoo warned of the 'balance of risks to the downside'. 
'Strike action is bad for sentiment and creates short-term risks to earnings, but should not impact Ryanair's long-
term competitive position, cost leadership, financial strength or cash generation,' he said.
Few FTSE 100 stocks made gains amid a broad-based sell-off following a downbeat communique from the G20, 
warning of increasing 'downside risks' from 'heightened trade and geopolitical tensions'.
Among 'small-cap' stocks, McColl's (MCLSM) was a heavy faller, down 12.6% at 183.5p as the convenience 
retailer posted a 2.7% drop in first half like-for-like sales, hurt by the collapse of cigarette wholesaler Palmer & 
Harvey.
Jonathan Pritchard, analyst at Peel Hunt, said the company was in the midst of a 'perfect storm'.
Ryanair knocks airline stocks as trade fears dog FTSE
'The collapse of Palmer & Harvey was a massive blow, coming as it did at a time when McColl's was about to 
switch distribution networks,' he said.
'The weather has been very unhelpful as well and with all the supply chain disruption, it's not actually a bad effort to 
be only marginally down year-on-year.'
Load-Date: July 27, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC ( RYAAY ) CEO Michael O'Leary on Q1 2019 Results - Earnings Call Transcript
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) CEO Michael O'Leary on Q1 2019 Results - 
Earnings Call Transcript
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
July 23, 2018 Monday 1:36 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 165 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Q1 2019 Earnings Conference Call
July 23, 2018, 05:00 ET
Executives
Michael O'Leary - CEO &amp; Executive Director
Neil Sorahan - CFO 
David O'Brien - Chief Commercial Officer
Edward Wilson - Chief People Officer
Analysts
Daniel R&ouml;ska - Sanford Bernstein
Savanthi Syth - Raymond James &amp; Associates
Jarrod Castle - UBS Investment Bank
Stephen Furlong - Davy
Neil Glynn - Crédit Suisse
Mark Simpson - Goodbody Stockbrokers
Ryanair Holdings PLC ( RYAAY ) CEO Michael O'Leary on Q1 2019 Results - Earnings Call Transcript
Damian Brewer - RBC Capital Markets
James Hollins - Exane BNP Paribas
Alex Paterson - Investec Bank
Monique Pollard - Citigroup
Gerald Khoo - Liberum Capital Limited
Johannes Braun - MainFirst Bank
Ruxandra Haradau-Doser - Kepler Cheuvreux
Michael Kuhn - Societe Generale
Duane Pfennigwerth - Evercore ISI
Kathryn Leonard - Numis Securities Limited
James Goodall - Redburn
Presentation
Operator
Hello, and welcome to today's Ryanair Q1 FY '19 Results Call. [Operator Instructions]. And just to remind you, this 
is... 
Read More: http://bit.ly/2OaeFad  
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
TOP NEWS SUMMARY: Ryanair Worries About Hard Brexit As Profit Falls
TOP NEWS SUMMARY: Ryanair Worries About Hard Brexit As Profit Falls
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 23, 2018 Monday 6:22 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 27 words
Body
 GBP: firm at USD1.3121 (USD1.3107)EUR: flat at USD1.1701 (USD1.1707)
GOLD: flat at USD1,228.60 per ounce (USD1,228.31)OIL (Brent): up at USD73.63 a barrel (USD72.86)
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for July 23rd 2018
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for July 23rd 2018
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 23, 2018 Monday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 182 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Economic and financial events for Monday, July 23rd 2018  ^  COMPANY EVENTS  
07:00 CH:  Julius B\xE4r                               Half Year Results 07:00 NL:  Philips                                  Half Year 
Results 07:00 IRL: Ryanair                                  Q1  12:30 USA: Hasbro                                   Q2  12:45 USA: 
Halliburton                              Q2  17:45 F:   Michelin                                 Half Year Results 17:45 I:   Luxottica                   
Half Year Results 18:00 A:   ams                                      Half Year Results 22:02 USA: Alphabet                   
Q2  22:30 USA: Whirlpool                                Q2   ECONOMIC DATA 12:00 D:   Bundesbank Monthly report 07/18 
14:30 USA: CFNA-Index 06/18 16:00 EU:  Consumer Confidence 07/18 (prel)\xB0  While all data were researched 
with the greatest care, dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH assumes no liability for the correctness of this 
information. All time designations are provided in CEST.  Copyright dpa-AFX    
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
FTSE 100 Slides On Fears Of No-deal Brexit
FTSE 100 Slides On Fears Of No-deal Brexit
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 23, 2018 Monday 11:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 172 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - U.K. shares were modestly lower on Monday after the 
weekend's G20 meeting of finance ministers in Argentina did little to allay fears of a global trade war and Brexit 
secretary Dominic Raab warned a 'no deal' Brexit is possible if talks fall through by October.  The benchmark FTSE 
100 was down 26 points or 0.34 percent at 7,653 in late opening deals after closing 0.1 percent lower on Friday.   
Ryanair Holdings fell as much as 5 percent as it battles a series of labor strikes.  Mining heavyweight BHP Billiton 
was marginally lower. The company is facing a class action lawsuit in an Australian court regarding the 2015 
Samarco dam failure in Brazil.  WPP jumped more than 2 percent. Sky News reported that the British advertising 
giant is in talks to sell a minority stake in its Chinese unit to Alibaba, Tencent and China Media.   IWG held steady 
after Prime Opportunities Investment said it would not bid for the company, leaving Starwood, TDR Capital and 
Terra Firma in the race.      
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Grounded jets Ryanair adopts brace [...]
Grounded jets Ryanair adopts brace [...]
Financial Times (London, England)
July 23, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 13
Length: 13 words
Body
Grounded jets Ryanair adopts brace position as strikes loom - ANALYSIS, PAGE 16
Load-Date: July 22, 2018
End of Document
Grounded jets Ryanair adopts brace [...]
Grounded jets Ryanair adopts brace [...]
Financial Times (London, England)
July 23, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; FRONT PAGE; TEASERS; Pg. 15
Length: 13 words
Body
Grounded jets Ryanair adopts brace position as strikes loom - ANALYSIS, PAGE 18
Load-Date: July 22, 2018
End of Document
Grounded jets Ryanair adopts brace [...]
Grounded jets Ryanair adopts brace [...]
Financial Times (London, England)
July 23, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 13 words
Body
Grounded jets Ryanair adopts brace position as strikes loom - ANALYSIS, PAGE 16
Load-Date: July 22, 2018
End of Document
Grounded jets Ryanair adopts brace [...]
Grounded jets Ryanair adopts brace [...]
Financial Times (London, England)
July 23, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 13
Length: 13 words
Body
Grounded jets Ryanair adopts brace position as strikes loom - ANALYSIS, PAGE 16
Load-Date: July 22, 2018
End of Document
6-K - RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (0001038683) (Filer)
6-K - RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (0001038683) (Filer)
Newstex Blogs
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
July 23, 2018 Monday 12:07 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 64 words
Body
Jul 23, 2018( U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission: https://www.sec.gov Delivered by Newstex)  Filing Date 
2018-07-23 Accepted 2018-07-23 07:56:59 Documents 1 Period of Report 2018-07-23 Document Format 
FilesMailing Address CT CORPORATION SYSTEM 1633 BROADWAY NEW YORK NY 10019 Business Address 
C/O RYANAIR LTD CORPORATE HEAD OFFICE DUBLIN AIRPORT COUNTY DUBLIN IRELAN L2 3538444440 
Load-Date: July 23, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) to Release Quarterly Earnings on Monday
Ryanair (RYAAY) to Release Quarterly Earnings on Monday
American Banking and Market News
July 21, 2018 Saturday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 405 words
Body
Ryanair logo Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) will be releasing its earnings data on Monday, July 23rd. Analysts expect 
Ryanair to post earnings of $1.55 per share for the quarter.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, topping analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. The 
firm had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion. Ryanair 
had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%.  On average, analysts expect Ryanair to post $7 
EPS for the current fiscal year and $8 EPS for the next fiscal year.  
RYAAY  opened at $116.70 on Friday. The company has a market capitalization of $27.67 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of 17.02 and a beta of 0.67. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 
and a quick ratio of 1.23. Ryanair has a 1-year low of $101.10 and a 1-year high of $127.61.  
Several research analysts have issued reports on the company. BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Zacks Investment Research  cut Ryanair from a "buy" 
rating to a "sell" rating in a report on Friday, April 20th. Deutsche Bank cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" 
rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Exane BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" 
rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, BidaskClub cut Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating 
in a report on Monday, May 14th. Three equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have 
assigned  a hold rating and three have assigned  a buy rating to the stock. The stock currently has a consensus 
rating of "Hold" and an average price target of $138.00. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Short Selling - Explanation For Shorting Stocks  
Earnings History for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) to Release Quarterly Earnings on Monday
Load-Date: July 21, 2018
End of Document
Bank of Montreal Can Raises Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Bank of Montreal Can Raises Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
July 21, 2018 Saturday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 717 words
Body
Ryanair logo Bank of Montreal Can lifted its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 9.1% during the 
2nd quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The fund 
owned 421,083 shares of the transportation company's stock after purchasing an additional 35,003 shares during 
the quarter. Bank of Montreal Can owned about 0.18% of Ryanair worth $48,101,000 at the end of the most recent 
reporting period.  
Several other hedge funds have also recently modified their holdings of the company. Bank of New York Mellon 
Corp increased its stake in  Ryanair by 2.8% during the fourth quarter. Bank of New York Mellon Corp now owns 
139,612 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $14,547,000 after acquiring an additional 3,774 shares 
during the last quarter.  Geode Capital Management LLC increased its stake in  Ryanair by 3.8% during the fourth 
quarter. Geode Capital Management LLC now owns 152,077 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$15,844,000 after acquiring an additional 5,537 shares during the last quarter.  Amundi Pioneer Asset Management 
Inc. bought a new stake in  Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth approximately $2,094,000.  Advisor Group Inc. 
increased its stake in  Ryanair by 82.2% during the fourth quarter. Advisor Group Inc. now owns 7,297 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $761,000 after acquiring an additional 3,292 shares during the last quarter.  
Finally, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. increased its stake in  Ryanair by 25.2% during the fourth quarter. Goldman 
Sachs Group Inc. now owns 116,474 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $12,135,000 after 
acquiring an additional 23,471 shares during the last quarter. 43.70% of the stock is currently owned by hedge 
funds and other institutional investors.  
RYAAY has been the topic of several analyst reports. Zacks Investment Research  raised Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price objective on the stock in a research note on Thursday, March 29th.       
     ValuEngine  cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Wednesday, May 9th. 
BidaskClub cut Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Monday, May 14th. 
Deutsche Bank  reissued a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. Finally, 
BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. 
Three research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have given a hold rating and three have 
assigned  a buy rating to the company. The company currently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average 
target price of $138.00. 
Ryanair opened at $116.70 on Friday, according to Marketbeat.com . The company has a market cap of $27.71 
billion, a PE ratio of 16.75 and a beta of 0.67. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $101.10 and a one year 
high of $127.61. The company has a current ratio of 1.23, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79.  
Bank of Montreal Can Raises Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, beating analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. The firm had revenue 
of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a return on equity of 
31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%.  equities research analysts predict that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post 6.72 
earnings per share for the current year.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: What are CEFs?  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: July 21, 2018
End of Document
Prince William, Prince Harry Can Do This While Traveling; Prince Charles Didn't
Prince William, Prince Harry Can Do This While Traveling; Prince Charles 
Didn't
International Business Times News
July 21, 2018 Saturday 10:46 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 487 words
Body
Jul 21, 2018( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)  Prince William 
and Prince Harry have been spotted taking commercial flights during some of the trips. This is something that 
Prince Charles has not done before. 
In 2015, Prince William flew by Ryanair to Scotland, and an eyewitness said that it was refreshing to see a member 
of the royal family taking a cheap flight. Prince William was accompanied by his bodyguard that time. Eight years 
ago, Prince William and Kate Middleton also boarded the economy on Flybe in 2011. The royal couple flew from 
Edinburgh to Manchester to attend the wedding of Zara Tindall and Mike Tindall. Prince Harry also joined his 
brother and sister-in-law on the trip, and he came back from the wedding via easyJet. Sally Bedell, a royal 
biographer, said Prince Charles doesn't follow in his two songs' footsteps. The future king usually travels via his 
private plane because he finds it difficult to take first class flights. Prince Charles' travel budget for 2017 hit over 
$1.5 million. Kara Godfrey, a journalist for Express[1], said that several members of the royal family have flown with 
British Airways, and Queen Elizabeth II is no exception. Middleton also took the same airline during her first solo 
tour to the Netherlands. Her mom, Carole Middleton, was a flight attendant for the British Airways, and that is where 
she met Michael Middleton. In related news, Prince William and Middleton cannot break a royal travel rule that 
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are allowed to do. When the Duke and Duchess of Sussex have their own 
children, they can travel with them on the same plane. Prince William[2] and Middleton cannot travel with their kids 
on commercial flights in case of emergency. Since Prince George is third in the line of succession, he should be 
protected from accidents. Despite the unofficial royal rule, Prince William and Middleton traveled with their son and 
Princess Charlotte to Canada and Australia. There are rumors suggesting that Prince William asked the Queen to 
change the rule, and the later has the final say on whether it would be changed, according to BBC[3]. Prince 
William and Prince Harry share some travel rules together. Pictured: Prince William, Prince Harry watch the RAF 
flypast on the balcony of Buckingham Palace, as members of the Royal Family attend events to mark the centenary 
of the RAF on July 10, 2018 in London, England. Photo: Getty Images/Chris Jackson [ 1]: 
https://www.express.co.uk/travel/articles/978307/meghan-markle-prince-harry-news-prince-william-kate-middleton-
flying-with-heirs [ 2]:            https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a22497304/meghan-markle-prince-harry-prince-
george-prince-william-prince-charles-exhibit-photos/ 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.express.co.uk/travel/articles/989804/prince-william-prince-harry-prince-charles-travel-news-private-jet-
budget-airline 
Prince William, Prince Harry Can Do This While Traveling; Prince Charles Didn't
Load-Date: July 21, 2018
End of Document
UK Earnings, Trading Statements Calendar - Next 7 Days
UK Earnings, Trading Statements Calendar - Next 7 Days
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 20, 2018 Friday 10:52 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 579 words
Body
 Monday 23 July&nbsp;Ryanair HoldingsQ1 ResultsAscentialHalf Year Results&nbsp;McColl's Retail GroupHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;TungstenFull 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Paragon 
Banking 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;MicrogenHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;SthreeHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;JTCTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Tuesday 
24 
July&nbsp;IG 
Group 
HoldingsFull 
Year 
ResultsDrax 
GroupHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Fevertree 
Drinks&nbsp;Half 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Gresham 
Technologies&nbsp;Half 
Year 
Results&nbsp;PZ 
CussonsFull 
Year 
ResultsSpectrisHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Victoria&nbsp;Full 
Year 
ResultsCentaur Media&nbsp;Half Year Results&nbsp;HammersonHalf Year Results&nbsp;HuntsworthHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;Unite 
GroupHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;BritvicTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Wednesday 
25 
July&nbsp;GlaxoSmithKlineHalf Year Results (at 1200 BST)Vodafone GroupTrading Statement&nbsp;Joules 
GroupFull Year Results&nbsp;Wizz AirQ1 Results&nbsp;Staffline GroupHalf Year Results&nbsp;QuartixHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;IndiviorHalf Year Results&nbsp;Burford CapitalHalf Year Results&nbsp;Fulham ShoreHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;IDOXHalf Year Results&nbsp;IP GroupHalf Year Results&nbsp;QinetiQQ1 Results&nbsp;Capital & 
Counties PropertiesHalf Year Results&nbsp;InformaHalf Year Results&nbsp;Croda InternationalHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;TymanHalf Year Results&nbsp;Rathbone BrothersHalf Year Results&nbsp;VictrexHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;3i 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;AntofagastaQ2 
ProductionBrewin 
DolphinTrading 
Statement&nbsp;FresnilloQ2 ProductionInternational Personal FinanceHalf Year Results&nbsp;ITVHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;Marston'sTrading Statement&nbsp;Metro BankHalf Year Results&nbsp;Tullow OilHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;Primary Health PropertiesHalf Year Results&nbsp;Thursday 26 July&nbsp;Royal Dutch ShellHalf 
Year ResultsSchrodersHalf Year ResultsSkyFull Year ResultsIntu PropertiesHalf Year ResultsHowden Joinery 
Group&nbsp;Half 
Year 
ResultsEvrazTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Discoverie 
Group&nbsp;Trading 
Statement&nbsp;Intermediate 
Capital 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Law 
Debenture 
CorpHalf 
Year 
ResultsSEGRO&nbsp;Half 
Year 
ResultsVirgin 
MoneyHalf 
Year 
ResultsSage 
Group&nbsp;Trading 
Statement&nbsp;Compass 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;PayPointTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Tarsus 
Group&nbsp;Half Year ResultsAnglo American&nbsp;Half Year ResultsAstraZenecaHalf Year ResultsBodycoteHalf 
Year ResultsBritish American TobaccoHalf Year ResultsCountrywide&nbsp;Half Year ResultsDaily Mail and 
General 
Trust 
ATrading 
Statement&nbsp;DiageoFull 
Year 
ResultsImpellam 
GroupHalf 
Year 
ResultsInchcape&nbsp;Half Year ResultsJardine Lloyd Thompson GroupHalf Year ResultsKAZ Minerals&nbsp;Q2 
UK Earnings, Trading Statements Calendar - Next 7 Days
ProductionSophos&nbsp;Q1 ResultsLancashire HoldingsHalf Year ResultsNational Express GroupHalf Year 
ResultsRELX&nbsp;Half Year ResultsRenishawFull Year ResultsSmith & Nephew&nbsp;Half Year ResultsTate & 
LyleTrading Statement&nbsp;Vesuvius&nbsp;Half Year ResultsMorgan Advanced Materials&nbsp;Half Year 
ResultsCountryside 
PropertiesQ3 
ResultsFranchise 
BrandsHalf 
Year 
ResultsCMC 
MarketsTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Polymetal 
InternationalQ2 
ProductionAVEVA 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Friday 
27 
July&nbsp;DX 
(Group)&nbsp;Trading 
Statement&nbsp;Reckitt 
BenckiserHalf 
Year 
ResultsJupiter 
Fund 
Management&nbsp;Half 
Year 
ResultsBT 
GroupQ1 
ResultsEquiniti 
Group&nbsp;Half 
Year 
ResultsRightmove&nbsp;Half Year ResultsCYBG&nbsp;Trading Statement&nbsp;Hutchison China MeditechHalf 
Year ResultsPearsonHalf Year Results&nbsp;&nbsp;Copyright 2018 Alliance News Limited. 
All Rights Reserved.
Load-Date: July 21, 2018
End of Document
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 20, 2018 Friday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 1019 words
Byline: William Heaney, +49 30 2852 31472, <, international@dpa.com, ;
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the weekly planner please call or email the dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-
Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 8064 Email: 
international@dpa.com
MONDAY, JULY 23
AMSTERDAM: World AIDS conference begins (runs until Friday).
MANILA: Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte to deliver state of the nation address in Congress.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CALIFORNIA, US: Google's parent company Alphabet reports second quarter results.
DUBLIN: Ryanair reports first quarter results.
HAMBURG: German Open tennis championships continue (until Sunday).
CARCASSONNE, FRANCE: Tour de France rest day.
DUISBURG, GERMANY: "Night Of 1,000 Lights" commemorates victims of Love Parade crowd disaster on July 24, 
2010, when 21 people died and 652 were injured.
_____________________________________________
TUESDAY, JULY 24
WASHINGTON: Former White House press secretary Sean Spicer publishes book.
BERLIN: German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer presents domestic intelligence agency report.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
ANKARA: Turkey's central bank holds monetary policy meeting.
WASHINGTON: US decides whether to impose tariffs on olive imports.
WASHINGTON: Harley Davidson reports quarterly financial results.
PARIS: Automotive giant Groupe PSA - makers of Citroen, Ambassador, Opel, Peugeot and Vauxhall vehicles - 
announces first half 2018 results.
TOKYO: Two-year countdown to the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics.
CARCASSONNE, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 16 to Bagneres-de-Luchon.
DUISBURG, GERMANY: Eighth anniversary of the Love Parade crowd disaster when 21 people died and 652 were 
injured.
_____________________________________________
WEDNESDAY, JULY 25
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan holds parliamentary elections.
WASHINGTON: European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker meets US President Donald Trump at the 
White House for trade talks.
JOHANNESBURG: BRICS Summit held in South Africa, bringing together the emerging nations of Brazil, Russia, 
India, China and South Africa.
BERLIN/TOKYO: German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas departs for his first trip to Asia, starting in Japan (until 
Thursday).
WASHINGTON: Trial begins of Paul Manafort, US president Donald Trump's former campaign manager, in Virginia.
WASHINGTON: US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to testify in Senate foreign relations committee.
WASHINGTON: US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo hosts meeting to discuss ways to advance the cause of 
religious freedom around the world.
LONDON: Fiat Chrysler presents second quarter results.
BERLIN: Deutsche Bank presents second quarter results.
BERLIN: German rail operator Deutsche Bahn first half quarter results.
INTERNATIONAL: Several Ryanair flights in Europe to be cancelled due to strikes.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on Bulgarian denial to grant Palestinian asylum.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on Dyson challenge against other vacuum cleaner manufacturers.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on challenge over Kit Kat shape.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on definition of genetically modified organisms.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on exemption for energy-intensive companies from German energy surcharge.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on extradition to Poland, other cases relating to European arrest warrants.
KOUROU: Ariane-5 rocket launches with four more satellites for the European Gallileo project.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
KINSHASA: WHO to announce the official end of Congo's Ebola outbreak.
ZIRNDORF, GERMANY: German cave diving expert Nick Vollmar returns home after helping save boys trapped in 
cave in Thailand.
VENICE, ITALY: Venice film festival unveils programme for 2018.
BAGNERES-DE-LUCHON, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 17 to Saint-Lary-Soulan Col du Portet.
BAYREUTH, GERMANY: Bayreuth Festival specializing in the operatic works of Richard Wagner begins (runs until 
August 29).
_____________________________________________
THURSDAY, JULY 26
SEOUL: German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas visits South Korea, may also visit North Korean border.
HAVANA: Cuba celebrates National Rebellion Day.
PARIS: French Senate to begin discussion of "fake news" laws.
FRANKFURT: European Central Bank council meeting with interest rate decision.
OSLO: Norwegian state-controlled energy group Equinor reports Q2 results.
TOKYO: Nissan Motor quarterly earnings report.
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON, US: Amazon reports second quarter results.
KARLSRUHE, GERMANY: Germany's top criminal and private court to issue verdict in case of Lufthansa against 
the federal government regarding the high costs of having sky marshals on board.
TRIE-SUR-BAISE, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 18 to Pau.
GIFHORN, GERMANY: First joint Muslim-Christian kindergarten to open in Germany.
NEW YORK: Home of US civil rights activist Rosa Parks up for auction.
LONDON: Singer Mick Jagger turns 75.
_____________________________________________
FRIDAY, JULY 27
BUENOS AIRES: G20 ministers for agriculture meet.
DURBAN, SOUTH AFRICA: South Africa's former President Jacob Zuma to appear in court in his corruption trial.
STOCKHOLM/GOTHENBURG: Europride co-hosted by two Swedish cities (runs until August 5).
LOURDES, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 19 to Laruns.
INTERNATIONAL: Longest total lunar eclipse of the century, expected to last over 100 minutes, will be visible in 
large parts of Australia, Asia, Africa, Europe and South America.
_____________________________________________
SATURDAY, JULY 28
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
CAIRO: An Egyptian court is expected to rule in a mass trial of 739 people including leader of the now-banned 
Muslim Brotherhood, Mohammed Badie.
BERLIN: Annual Pride festival, known locally as Christopher Street Day.
HAMBURG: German Open semifinals.
SAINT-PEE-SUR-NIVELLE, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 20 to Espelette.
_____________________________________________
SUNDAY, JULY 29
PHNOM PENH: Parliamentary elections in Cambodia.
BAMAKO: Presidential elections in Mali.
HAMBURG: German Open finals.
BUDAPEST: Hungarian Formula 1 Grand Prix 2018.
HOUILLES, FRANCE: Tour de France final stage to Paris Champs-Elysees.
MIAMI, FLORIDA, US: International Champions Cup: FC Bayern v Manchester City, in Hard Rock Stadium.
BERLIN: Joan Baez holds concert in the Spandau Citadel as part of her "Fare Thee Well Tour."
Load-Date: July 20, 2018
End of Document
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 20, 2018 Friday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 1019 words
Byline: William Heaney, +49 30 2852 31472, <, international@dpa.com, ;
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the weekly planner please call or email the dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-
Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 8064 Email: 
international@dpa.com
MONDAY, JULY 23
AMSTERDAM: World AIDS conference begins (runs until Friday).
MANILA: Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte to deliver state of the nation address in Congress.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CALIFORNIA, US: Google's parent company Alphabet reports second quarter results.
DUBLIN: Ryanair reports first quarter results.
HAMBURG: German Open tennis championships continue (until Sunday).
CARCASSONNE, FRANCE: Tour de France rest day.
DUISBURG, GERMANY: "Night Of 1,000 Lights" commemorates victims of Love Parade crowd disaster on July 24, 
2010, when 21 people died and 652 were injured.
_____________________________________________
TUESDAY, JULY 24
WASHINGTON: Former White House press secretary Sean Spicer publishes book.
BERLIN: German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer presents domestic intelligence agency report.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
ANKARA: Turkey's central bank holds monetary policy meeting.
WASHINGTON: US decides whether to impose tariffs on olive imports.
WASHINGTON: Harley Davidson reports quarterly financial results.
PARIS: Automotive giant Groupe PSA - makers of Citroen, Ambassador, Opel, Peugeot and Vauxhall vehicles - 
announces first half 2018 results.
TOKYO: Two-year countdown to the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics.
CARCASSONNE, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 16 to Bagneres-de-Luchon.
DUISBURG, GERMANY: Eighth anniversary of the Love Parade crowd disaster when 21 people died and 652 were 
injured.
_____________________________________________
WEDNESDAY, JULY 25
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan holds parliamentary elections.
WASHINGTON: European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker meets US President Donald Trump at the 
White House for trade talks.
JOHANNESBURG: BRICS Summit held in South Africa, bringing together the emerging nations of Brazil, Russia, 
India, China and South Africa.
BERLIN/TOKYO: German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas departs for his first trip to Asia, starting in Japan (until 
Thursday).
WASHINGTON: Trial begins of Paul Manafort, US president Donald Trump's former campaign manager, in Virginia.
WASHINGTON: US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to testify in Senate foreign relations committee.
WASHINGTON: US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo hosts meeting to discuss ways to advance the cause of 
religious freedom around the world.
LONDON: Fiat Chrysler presents second quarter results.
BERLIN: Deutsche Bank presents second quarter results.
BERLIN: German rail operator Deutsche Bahn first half quarter results.
INTERNATIONAL: Several Ryanair flights in Europe to be cancelled due to strikes.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on Bulgarian denial to grant Palestinian asylum.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on Dyson challenge against other vacuum cleaner manufacturers.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on challenge over Kit Kat shape.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on definition of genetically modified organisms.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on exemption for energy-intensive companies from German energy surcharge.
LUXEMBOURG: Top EU court rules on extradition to Poland, other cases relating to European arrest warrants.
KOUROU: Ariane-5 rocket launches with four more satellites for the European Gallileo project.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
KINSHASA: WHO to announce the official end of Congo's Ebola outbreak.
ZIRNDORF, GERMANY: German cave diving expert Nick Vollmar returns home after helping save boys trapped in 
cave in Thailand.
VENICE, ITALY: Venice film festival unveils programme for 2018.
BAGNERES-DE-LUCHON, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 17 to Saint-Lary-Soulan Col du Portet.
BAYREUTH, GERMANY: Bayreuth Festival specializing in the operatic works of Richard Wagner begins (runs until 
August 29).
_____________________________________________
THURSDAY, JULY 26
SEOUL: German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas visits South Korea, may also visit North Korean border.
HAVANA: Cuba celebrates National Rebellion Day.
PARIS: French Senate to begin discussion of "fake news" laws.
FRANKFURT: European Central Bank council meeting with interest rate decision.
OSLO: Norwegian state-controlled energy group Equinor reports Q2 results.
TOKYO: Nissan Motor quarterly earnings report.
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON, US: Amazon reports second quarter results.
KARLSRUHE, GERMANY: Germany's top criminal and private court to issue verdict in case of Lufthansa against 
the federal government regarding the high costs of having sky marshals on board.
TRIE-SUR-BAISE, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 18 to Pau.
GIFHORN, GERMANY: First joint Muslim-Christian kindergarten to open in Germany.
NEW YORK: Home of US civil rights activist Rosa Parks up for auction.
LONDON: Singer Mick Jagger turns 75.
_____________________________________________
FRIDAY, JULY 27
BUENOS AIRES: G20 ministers for agriculture meet.
DURBAN, SOUTH AFRICA: South Africa's former President Jacob Zuma to appear in court in his corruption trial.
STOCKHOLM/GOTHENBURG: Europride co-hosted by two Swedish cities (runs until August 5).
LOURDES, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 19 to Laruns.
INTERNATIONAL: Longest total lunar eclipse of the century, expected to last over 100 minutes, will be visible in 
large parts of Australia, Asia, Africa, Europe and South America.
_____________________________________________
SATURDAY, JULY 28
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for JULY 23-29, 2018
CAIRO: An Egyptian court is expected to rule in a mass trial of 739 people including leader of the now-banned 
Muslim Brotherhood, Mohammed Badie.
BERLIN: Annual Pride festival, known locally as Christopher Street Day.
HAMBURG: German Open semifinals.
SAINT-PEE-SUR-NIVELLE, FRANCE: Tour de France stage 20 to Espelette.
_____________________________________________
SUNDAY, JULY 29
PHNOM PENH: Parliamentary elections in Cambodia.
BAMAKO: Presidential elections in Mali.
HAMBURG: German Open finals.
BUDAPEST: Hungarian Formula 1 Grand Prix 2018.
HOUILLES, FRANCE: Tour de France final stage to Paris Champs-Elysees.
MIAMI, FLORIDA, US: International Champions Cup: FC Bayern v Manchester City, in Hard Rock Stadium.
BERLIN: Joan Baez holds concert in the Spandau Citadel as part of her "Fare Thee Well Tour."
Load-Date: July 21, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Says Recognises FIT CISL Union For Cabin Crew
Ryanair Says Recognises FIT CISL Union For Cabin Crew
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 20, 2018 Friday 2:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 186 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) said that it signed a recognition agreement 
with the Italian union FIT CISL, who will now join ANPAC and ANPAV as a joint negotiating body for directly 
employed cabin crew in Italy.   The joint negotiating committee of FIT CISL, ANPAC and ANPAV will take effect 
from 24 July 2018 to commence negotiations on a CLA. The contract agencies (Crewlink and Workforce) employing 
cabin crew operating on Ryanair aircraft in Italy have also signed recognition agreements today with FIT CISL, 
ANPAC, and ANPAV, and negotiations on a CLA for contractor crew will also commence from 24 July 2018.  
Following yesterday's announcement yesterday of a cabin crew recognition agreement with Ver.di in Germany, 
Ryanair is now commencing negotiations on CLA's for over 66% of its people in its major markets of Italy, the UK 
and Germany.    Ryanair hopes that the cabin crew unions in Spain, Portugal and Belgium will soon follow this 
example by engaging in negotiations with Ryanair rather than disrupting Ryanair customers by going on 
unnecessary strikes.      
Load-Date: July 20, 2018
End of Document
UK Earnings, Trading Statements Calendar - Next 7 Days
UK Earnings, Trading Statements Calendar - Next 7 Days
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 19, 2018 Thursday 11:20 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 552 words
Body
 Friday 20 July&nbsp;Acacia MiningHalf Year Results&nbsp;BeazleyHalf Year Results&nbsp;KCOM GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;HomeserveTrading 
Statement&nbsp;RecordTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Monday 
23 
July&nbsp;Ryanair HoldingsQ1 ResultsAscentialHalf Year Results&nbsp;McColl's Retail GroupHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;TungstenFull Year Results&nbsp;Paragon Banking GroupTrading Statement&nbsp;MicrogenHalf 
Year Results&nbsp;SthreeHalf Year Results&nbsp;JTCTrading Statement&nbsp;Tuesday 24 July&nbsp;IG Group 
HoldingsFull 
Year 
ResultsDrax 
GroupHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Fevertree 
Drinks&nbsp;Half 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Gresham Technologies&nbsp;Half Year Results&nbsp;PZ CussonsFull Year ResultsSpectrisHalf 
Year Results&nbsp;Victoria&nbsp;Full Year ResultsCentaur Media&nbsp;Half Year Results&nbsp;HammersonHalf 
Year Results&nbsp;HuntsworthHalf Year Results&nbsp;Unite GroupHalf Year Results&nbsp;BritvicTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Wednesday 
25 
July&nbsp;GlaxoSmithKlineHalf 
Year 
Results 
(at 
1200 
BST)Vodafone 
GroupTrading Statement&nbsp;Joules GroupFull Year Results&nbsp;Wizz AirQ1 Results&nbsp;Staffline GroupHalf 
Year Results&nbsp;QuartixHalf Year Results&nbsp;IndiviorHalf Year Results&nbsp;Burford CapitalHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;Fulham 
ShoreHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;IDOXHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;IP 
GroupHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;QinetiQQ1 Results&nbsp;Capital & Counties PropertiesHalf Year Results&nbsp;InformaHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;Croda InternationalHalf Year Results&nbsp;TymanHalf Year Results&nbsp;Rathbone BrothersHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;VictrexHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;3i 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;AntofagastaQ2 
ProductionBrewin DolphinTrading Statement&nbsp;FresnilloQ2 ProductionInternational Personal FinanceHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;ITVHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Marston'sTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Metro 
BankHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Tullow OilHalf Year Results&nbsp;Primary Health PropertiesHalf Year Results&nbsp;Thursday 26 
July&nbsp;Royal Dutch ShellHalf Year ResultsSchrodersHalf Year ResultsIntu PropertiesHalf Year ResultsHowden 
Joinery 
Group&nbsp;Half 
Year 
ResultsEvrazTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Discoverie 
Group&nbsp;Trading 
Statement&nbsp;Intermediate 
Capital 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Law 
Debenture 
CorpHalf 
Year 
ResultsSEGRO&nbsp;Half 
Year 
ResultsVirgin 
MoneyHalf 
Year 
ResultsSage 
Group&nbsp;Trading 
Statement&nbsp;Compass 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;PayPointTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Tarsus 
Group&nbsp;Half Year ResultsAnglo American&nbsp;Half Year ResultsAstraZenecaHalf Year ResultsBodycoteHalf 
Year ResultsBritish American TobaccoHalf Year ResultsCountrywide&nbsp;Half Year ResultsDaily Mail & General 
Trust ATrading Statement&nbsp;DiageoFull Year ResultsImpellam GroupHalf Year ResultsInchcape&nbsp;Half 
UK Earnings, Trading Statements Calendar - Next 7 Days
Year ResultsJardine Lloyd Thompson GroupHalf Year ResultsKAZ Minerals&nbsp;Q2 ProductionSophos&nbsp;Q1 
ResultsLancashire HoldingsHalf Year ResultsNational Express GroupHalf Year ResultsRELX&nbsp;Half Year 
ResultsRenishawFull 
Year 
ResultsSmith 
& 
Nephew&nbsp;Half 
Year 
ResultsTate 
& 
LyleTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Vesuvius&nbsp;Half 
Year 
ResultsMorgan 
Advanced 
Materials&nbsp;Half 
Year 
ResultsCountryside 
PropertiesQ3 
ResultsFranchise 
BrandsHalf 
Year 
ResultsCMC 
MarketsTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Polymetal 
InternationalQ2 
ProductionAVEVA 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Copyright 2018 Alliance News Limited. 
All Rights Reserved.
Load-Date: July 20, 2018
End of Document
TOP NEWS SUMMARY: Unilever Sales, Profit Down Before Head Office Move
TOP NEWS SUMMARY: Unilever Sales, Profit Down Before Head Office Move
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 19, 2018 Thursday 6:26 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 769 words
Body
 The following is a summary of top news stories Thursday.----------COMPANIES----------Unilever said a truckers 
strike in Brazil, weakening of economic conditions in Argentina, and adverse currency movements resulted in a 
year-on-year drop in sales and profit for the first half of 2018. The Anglo-Dutch consumer goods giant also said it 
will hold general meetings for Unilever NV and for Unilever PLC shareholders on October 25 and 25, respectively, 
to vote on the company's previously announced business simplification plan, which includes abandoning its current 
dual-headed corporate structure and rebasing the company in the Netherlands. For the six months to June-end, the 
company recorded pretax profit of EUR4.34 billion, down 6.3% from EUR4.63 billion in the year-ago period. 
Revenue fell 5.0% to EUR26.35 billion from EUR27.73 billion.----------Anglo American reported a solid increase in 
overall production for the second quarter of 2018. On a copper equivalent basis, production for the three months to 
June rose 6% year-on-year, which excludes the stoppage at its Minas-Rio mine in Brazil due to pipeline leaks. 
Anglo American's copper production for the second quarter was 12% higher year-on-year to 158,000 tonnes, while 
for the first six months of 2018 it rose 10% to 313,000 tonnes. 
The company, listed in both Johannesburg and London, has held its 2018 copper output guidance at between 
630,000 tonnes and 660,000 tonnes. ----------SSE said that its first quarter performance was hurt by the recent 
"warmer than average" UK temperatures, leading to a 10% drop in gas demand. The hot weather reduced first-
quarter operating profit by GBP80 million and could "potentially" harm full-year results, the company added. In the 
three months to June 30, the energy company said that the temperature - being 1.5 degrees centigrade warmer 
than the thirty-year average - affected domestic gas demand. In addition to lower demand, gas prices were 
"persistently high" resulting in a "higher cost of energy" being consumed at lower volumes, the FTSE 100-listed 
company said. ----------Ryanair Holdings said it now recognised a German-based cabin crew as it continues the 
process of engaging with unions more closely. Ryanair now recognises the Ver.di Union which covers the German 
market. Ver.di will now be the representative body for all directly employed cabin crew operating on its aircraft in 
Germany. "We are pleased to sign this cabin crew recognition agreement with Ver.di in Germany," Ryanair Chief 
People Officer Eddie Wilson said. "This is a further sign of the progress Ryanair is making with trade unions since 
our December 2017 decision to recognise unions, with over 60% of our cabin crew now covered by recognition 
agreements."----------Sports Direct International said its "strategic investment" in department store chain 
Debenhams hurt profit in its recently-ended financial year. The retailer said pretax profit for the year to April 29 fell 
TOP NEWS SUMMARY: Unilever Sales, Profit Down Before Head Office Move
73% to GBP77.5 million from GBP281.6 million reported a year earlier, while revenue rose 3.5% to GBP3.36 billion 
from GBP3.25 billion. On an underlying basis, pretax profit increased by 35% to GBP152.9 million from GBP113.7 
million reported a year prior. The steep profit drop was largely driven by a GBP85.4 million hit following a reduction 
in value of Debenhams. During the year, Sports Direct increased its holding in Debenhams to 29.7%.----------
Babcock International Group said it expects "low single digit" adjusted annual revenue growth as its defence 
revenue is hit by the creation of a new submarine agency by the UK government. The engineering services 
company said that the UK Defence Equipment & Support organisation created a new submarine delivery agency 
(SDA), with this restructuring taking a "temporary" blow at the company's defence revenue. This impact will result 
on "low single digit" revenue growth for the year to March 2019.----------MARKETS----------London shares were 
mixed, with Unilever leading the blue chip risers and Babcock and Sports Direct weighing in the midcap index. The 
pound fell below the USD1.30 mark following disappointing UK retail sales data. Wall Street was pointed to a lower 
open with tobacco firm Philip Morris International reporting earnings before the opening bell and software giant 
Microsoft reporting after the market close. ----------FTSE 100: up 0.2% at 7,689.51FTSE 250: down 0.5% at 
20,885.31AIM ALL-SHARE: down 0.2% at 1,095.23
GBP: down at USD1.2994 (USD1.3058)EUR: down at USD1.1600 (USD1.1642)
GOLD: down at USD1,216.64 per ounce (USD1,223.17)OIL (Brent): down at USD71.99 a barrel (USD72.21)
Load-Date: July 20, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair says biggest ever strike to ground 600 flights next week
Ryanair says biggest ever strike to ground 600 flights next week
Business World (Digest)
July 19, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: WORLD
Length: 457 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair is to cancel more than 12% of its flights for two days next week in its biggest-ever strike as cabin crew 
escalate a staff revolt that began among disaffected pilots last year.
The Irish airline, Europe's largest by passenger numbers, said in a statement it expected disruption to the travel 
plans of almost 50,000 customers traveling to and from Belgium, Portugal and Spain on July 25 and 26, as it would 
cancel up to 300 flights per day.
"These strikes are entirely unjustified and will achieve nothing other than to disrupt family holidays," the airline said 
in a statement.
In the company's largest previous industrial action, Ryanair canceled 30 flights on July 12 when some pilots 
in Ireland held their first strike. Ryanair said it will cancel 24 flights on Friday during the second of three strikes 
planned by the pilots.
Cabin crew from across Europe earlier this month published a list of 34 demands on July 4, including "a fair living 
wage", improved sick pay and employment contracts in their own language, based on local rather than Irish law.
Cabin crew have complained that they have to pay for drinking water during flights and must physically report to 
work when sick to provide written details of their symptoms.
Ryanair, which published a list of cabin crew benefits on Twitter on Wednesday, including pay of up to 40,000 euros 
per year, said its staff has some of the best conditions in Europe's low-cost airline sector.
Ryanair says biggest ever strike to ground 600 flights next week
"We think are crew are well paid and we think their terms and conditions are good," chief marketing officer Kenny 
Jacobs told Reuters. "But we will sit and meet with them see what issues they have and consider them. We will 
keep an open mind."
The airline will consider issues including demands for local contracts by some staff, but the airline needs to maintain 
its "low-cost, high-efficiency" model, he said.
Ryanair, which flies in 37 countries and carried 130 million passengers last year, averted widespread strikes before 
Christmas by deciding to recognise trade unions for the first time in its 32-year history.
But it has since struggled to reach agreement on terms with several of them.
German Union Verdi earlier on Wednesday announced it had signed a union recognition agreement for Ryanair 
cabin crew.
Ryanair decided to cancel flights seven days in advance because it saw little prospect of the unions calling off 
strikes and wanted to give passengers a chance to rebook, Jacobs said.
The airline, which is due to release financial results for the three months to June 30 on Monday, posted a record 
annual profit of 1.45 billion euros in the year ended March 31. But it warned profit was set to fall due to higher fuel 
and staffing costs, and flat fares. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 17, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet protests at French controller walkouts
EasyJet protests at French controller walkouts
Financial Times (London, England)
July 19, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 14
Length: 461 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
EasyJet said yesterday it would file a complaint with the European Commission about air traffic controller strikes 
planned for next week, even as the lowcost airline raised its full-year profit guidance.
Johan Lundgren, chief executive, said the complaint would be based on the strikes "restricting movement", 
breaching one of the EU's "four freedoms". He said: "Disruption this year so far has been equivalent to all of 2017, 
which has been challenging and we estimate this will not go away."
He added that easyJet would file a complaint by itself, rather than joining competitors Ryanair and IAG, which have 
previously indicated they wanted to take legal action following thousands of strikes.
Eurocontrol, the EU's air traffic control agency, has projected the total minutes of delay for 2018 will rise 53 per cent 
from 2017 to 14.3m. A report from consultancy PwC found that air traffic control strikes had reduced the EU's gross 
domestic product by (EURO)10.4bn between 2010 and 2015 through aviation, tourism and freight losses.
In a third-quarter trading statement, easyJet said it expected headline profit before tax for the year to the end of 
September of between £550m and £590m, up from previous guidance of £530m to £580m. For the quarter, it 
reported revenue up 14 per cent year on year to £1.6bn. But the airline also predicted that fullyear headline costs 
per seat excluding fuel would increase 3 per cent, compared with 2 per cent previously, due to higher levels of 
disruption.
EasyJet protests at French controller walkouts
EasyJet blamed the rise in costs on "the regular and sustained [air traffic control] industrial action in France, as well 
as the impact of severe weather". It had to cancel 2,600 flights in the quarter, up from 314 over the same period in 
2017, and said disruption had cost £25m more than last year.
The negative news about costs was in part offset by third-quarter passenger numbers growing 9.3 per cent to 24m 
and revenue per seat rising 4.8 per cent. The revenue figure excluded costs relating to integrating Air Berlin's 
former operations at Tegel airport, which the airline said would be £125m, up from a previous estimate of £95m.
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, said that easyJet was vulnerable to continued disruption. "Their network is 
highly exposed to congested airports and it's those congested airports that suffer the most at times of disruption 
and during strike action ... If disruption carries on at an elevated level, it's unlikely they'll get it back in yield."
EasyJet shares climbed as much as 4.7 per cent in early London trading before settling back to stand 2.15 per cent 
higher at £16.89 at the close.
See Lombard
£25m Increase in cost of disruption in third quarter, year on year 53% Projected rise in minutes of delay in Europe 
for 2018, compared with 2017
Graphic
 
Rocky ride: easyJet has warned of a rise in costs, which it blames on 'regular' action by air traffic controllers in 
France - Fabrice Coffrini/AFP
Load-Date: July 18, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet protests at French controller walkouts
EasyJet protests at French controller walkouts
Financial Times (London, England)
July 19, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 12
Length: 461 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
EasyJet said yesterday it would file a complaint with the European Commission about air traffic controller strikes 
planned for next week, even as the lowcost airline raised its full-year profit guidance.
Johan Lundgren, chief executive, said the complaint would be based on the strikes "restricting movement", 
breaching one of the EU's "four freedoms". He said: "Disruption this year so far has been equivalent to all of 2017, 
which has been challenging and we estimate this will not go away."
He added that easyJet would file a complaint by itself, rather than joining competitors Ryanair and IAG, which have 
previously indicated they wanted to take legal action following thousands of strikes.
Eurocontrol, the EU's air traffic control agency, has projected the total minutes of delay for 2018 will rise 53 per cent 
from 2017 to 14.3m. A report from consultancy PwC found that air traffic control strikes had reduced the EU's gross 
domestic product by (EURO)10.4bn between 2010 and 2015 through aviation, tourism and freight losses.
In a third-quarter trading statement, easyJet said it expected headline profit before tax for the year to the end of 
September of between £550m and £590m, up from previous guidance of £530m to £580m. For the quarter, it 
reported revenue up 14 per cent year on year to £1.6bn.
But the airline also predicted that fullyear headline costs per seat excluding fuel would increase 3 per cent, 
compared with 2 per cent previously, due to higher levels of disruption.
EasyJet protests at French controller walkouts
EasyJet blamed the rise in costs on "the regular and sustained [air traffic control] industrial action in France, as well 
as the impact of severe weather". It had to cancel 2,600 flights in the quarter, up from 314 over the same period in 
2017, and said disruption had cost £25m more than last year.
The negative news about costs was in part offset by third-quarter passenger numbers growing 9.3 per cent to 24m 
and revenue per seat rising 4.8 per cent. The revenue figure excluded costs relating to integrating Air Berlin's 
former operations at Tegel airport, which the airline said would be £125m, up from a previous estimate of £95m.
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, said that easyJet was vulnerable to continued disruption. "Their network is 
highly exposed to congested airports and it's those congested airports that suffer the most at times of disruption 
and during strike action ... If disruption carries on at an elevated level, it's unlikely they'll get it back in yield."
EasyJet shares climbed as much as 4.7 per cent in early London trading before settling back to stand 2.15 per cent 
higher at £16.89 at the close.
Airlines
£25m Increase in cost of disruption in third quarter, year on year 53% Projected rise in minutes of delay in Europe 
for 2018, compared with 2017
Graphic
 
Rocky ride: easyJet has warned of a rise in costs, which it blames on 'regular' action by air traffic controllers in 
France - Fabrice Coffrini/AFP
Load-Date: July 18, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet protests at French controller walkouts
EasyJet protests at French controller walkouts
Financial Times (London, England)
July 19, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 12
Length: 453 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
EasyJet said yesterday it would file a complaint with the European Commission about air traffic controller strikes 
planned for next week, even as the lowcost airline raised its full-year profit guidance.
Johan Lundgren, chief executive, said the complaint would be based on the strikes "restricting movement", 
breaching one of the EU's "four freedoms". He said: "Disruption this year so far has been equivalent to all of 2017, 
which has been challenging and we estimate this will not go away."
He added that easyJet would file a complaint by itself, rather than joining competitors Ryanair and IAG, which have 
previously indicated they wanted to take legal action following thousands of strikes.
Eurocontrol, the EU's air traffic control agency, has projected the total minutes of delay for 2018 will rise 53 per cent 
from 2017 to 14.3m. A report from consultancy PwC found that air traffic control strikes had reduced the EU's gross 
domestic product by (EURO)10.4bn between 2010 and 2015 through aviation, tourism and freight losses.
In a third-quarter trading statement, easyJet said it expected headline profit before tax for the year to the end of 
September of between £550m and £590m, up from previous guidance of £530m to £580m. For the quarter, it 
reported revenue up 14 per cent year on year to £1.6bn.
But the airline also predicted that fullyear headline costs per seat excluding fuel would increase 3 per cent, 
compared with 2 per cent previously, due to higher levels of disruption.
EasyJet protests at French controller walkouts
EasyJet blamed the rise in costs on "the regular and sustained [air traffic well as the impact of severe weather". It 
had to cancel 2,600 flights in the quarter, up from 314 over the same period in 2017, and said disruption had cost 
£25m more than last year.
The negative news about costs was in part offset by third-quarter passenger numbers growing 9.3 per cent to 24m 
and revenue per seat rising 4.8 per cent. The revenue figure excluded costs relating to integrating Air Berlin's 
former operations at Tegel airport, which the airline said would be £125m, up from a previous estimate of £95m.
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, said that easyJet was vulnerable to continued disruption. "Their network is 
highly exposed to congested airports and it's those congested airports that suffer the most at times of disruption 
and during strike action ... If disruption carries on at an elevated level, it's unlikely they'll get it back in yield."
EasyJet shares climbed as much as 4.7 per cent in early London trading before settling back to stand 2.15 per cent 
higher at £16.89 at the close.
£25m Increase in cost of disruption in third quarter, year on year 53% Projected rise in minutes of delay in Europe 
for 2018, compared with 2017
Graphic
 
Rocky ride: easyJet has warned of a rise in costs, which it blames on 'regular' action by air traffic controllers in 
France - Fabrice Coffrini/AFP
Load-Date: July 18, 2018
End of Document
EasyJet protests at French controller walkouts
EasyJet protests at French controller walkouts
Financial Times (London, England)
July 19, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 437 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
EasyJet said yesterday it would file a complaint with the European Commission about air traffic controller strikes 
planned for next week, even as the lowcost airline raised its full-year profit guidance.
Johan Lundgren, chief executive, said the complaint would be based on the strikes "restricting movement", 
breaching one of the EU's "four freedoms". He said: "Disruption this year so far has been equivalent to all of 2017, 
which has been challenging and we estimate this will not go away."
He added that easyJet would file a complaint by itself, rather than joining competitors Ryanair and IAG, which have 
previously indicated they wanted to take legal action following thousands of strikes.
Eurocontrol, the EU's air traffic control agency, has projected the total minutes of delay for 2018 will rise 53 per cent 
from 2017 to 14.3m. A report from consultancy PwC found that air traffic control strikes had reduced the EU's gross 
domestic product by (EURO)10.4bn between 2010 and 2015 through aviation, tourism and freight losses.
In a third-quarter trading statement, easyJet said it expected headline profit before tax for the year to the end of 
September of between £550m and £590m, up from previous guidance of £530m to £580m. For the quarter, it 
reported revenue up 14 per cent year on year to £1.6bn.
But the airline also predicted that fullyear headline costs per seat excluding fuel would increase 3 per cent, 
compared with 2 per cent previously, due to higher levels of disruption.
EasyJet protests at French controller walkouts
EasyJet blamed the rise in costs on "the regular and sustained [air traffic control] industrial action in France, as well 
as the impact of severe weather". It had to cancel 2,600 flights in the quarter, up from 314 over the same period in 
2017, and said disruption had cost £25m more than last year.
The negative news about costs was in part offset by third-quarter passenger numbers growing 9.3 per cent to 24m 
and revenue per seat rising 4.8 per cent. The revenue figure excluded costs relating to integrating Air Berlin's 
former operations at Tegel airport, which the airline said would be £125m, up from a previous estimate of £95m.
Kathryn Leonard, analyst at Numis, said that easyJet was vulnerable to continued disruption. "Their network is 
highly exposed to congested airports and it's those congested airports that suffer the most at times of disruption 
and during strike action ... If disruption carries on at an elevated level, it's unlikely they'll get it back in yield."
EasyJet shares climbed as much as 4.7 per cent in early London trading before settling back to stand 2.15 per cent 
higher at £16.89 at the close.
Airlines
Graphic
 
£25m Increase in cost of disruption in third quarter, year on year 53% Projected rise in minutes of delay in Europe 
for 2018, compared with 2017Rocky ride: easyJet has warned of a rise in costs, which it blames on 'regular' action 
by air traffic controllers in France - Fabrice Coffrini/AFP
Load-Date: July 18, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair To Cancel 300 Daily Flights On July 25, 26 Due To Cabin Crew Strike
Ryanair To Cancel 300 Daily Flights On July 25, 26 Due To Cabin Crew Strike
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 19, 2018 Thursday 12:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 123 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced in a twitter post on Thursday 
that it will cancel up to 300 of its 2,400 daily flights next week.  The cancelations will take place on Wednesday July 
25 and Thursday July 26 to minimize disruption to customers from unnecessary strikes by some cabin crew in 
Belgium, Portugal and Spain.  Cabins Crew United, the union of Ryanair's European Network, announced earlier in 
the month that it will go on strike in Portugal, Italy, Spain and Belgium on July 25. The Union has been asking for an 
improvement in employee terms.  The Union members in Portugal, Belgium and Spain will be on strike for 48 hours, 
while cabin crew in Italy will strike for 24 hours.      
Load-Date: July 19, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Signs Recognition Deal With Ver.di Union For German Based Cabin Crew
Ryanair Signs Recognition Deal With Ver.di Union For German Based Cabin 
Crew
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 19, 2018 Thursday 11:13 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 200 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced Thursday that it has signed its third 
cabin crew union recognition agreement with Ver.di Union.  Ver.di will now be the representative body for all directly 
employed Cabin Crew operating on Ryanair aircraft in Germany.  The company said the cabin crew recognition 
agreement follows extensive negotiations with Ver.di and covers the German market.  Ryanair looks forward to 
working with Ver.di and its Ryanair (Cabin Crew) Company Council to conclude an early CLA for Ryanair's directly 
employed cabin crew based in Germany. This agreement follows Ryanair's first cabin crew recognition deal with the 
Italian ANPAC/ANPAV unions and second cabin crew agreement with UNITE union in the UK.  Ryanair's Chief 
People Officer, Eddie Wilson said, 'This is a further sign of the progress Ryanair is making with trade unions since 
our December 2017 decision to recognise unions, with over 60% of our cabin crew now covered by recognition 
agreements.'  The company said it hopes to announce further agreements over the coming weeks, in those 
countries where unions have approached these negotiations in a practical and positive manner.      
Load-Date: July 19, 2018
End of Document
FTSE 100 Edges Higher As Pound Slides After Retail Sales Data
FTSE 100 Edges Higher As Pound Slides After Retail Sales Data
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 19, 2018 Thursday 11:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 187 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - U.K. stocks recovered from early losses to edge higher on 
Thursday, buoyed by a weaker pound after retail sales data fell short of market expectations.   U.K. retail sales 
unexpectedly declined in June, but the quarterly growth rate was the fastest since 2015, preliminary data from the 
Office for National Statistics showed.  Retail sales dropped 0.5 percent from the previous month, while economists' 
were looking for a 0.2 percent increase. The decline came after a two months of strong growth.   The benchmark 
FTSE 100 was up 16 points or 0.21 percent at 7,692 in late opening deals after closing 0.7 percent higher the 
previous day.   Anglo American dropped 1.4 percent. The mining giant lowered its full-year guidance for iron ore 
after reporting a 6 percent increase in total production in the second quarter, driven by copper and metallurgical 
coal supplies.   Sports Direct International slumped almost 7 percent as it reported a 73 percent slump in annual 
profit.  Low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings slid half a percent ahead of a strike by cabin staff next week.      
Load-Date: July 19, 2018
End of Document
Airline group faults Europe traffic controllers amid delays
Airline group faults Europe traffic controllers amid delays
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 18, 2018 Wednesday 3:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 612 words
Byline: By JAMEY KEATEN, Associated Press
Dateline: GENEVA 
Body
GENEVA (AP) - Noticing more delays at Europe's airports? The leading trade group for global airlines is criticizing 
air traffic control agencies in Europe for seeking "super-normal profits" instead of investing to improve performance 
at a time when air travelers are facing longer waits.
The swipe by the International Air Transport Association, which called on governments to help resolve the 
"bottlenecks," comes after EUROCONTROL reported air traffic management delays this year have jumped 133 
percent compared to a year earlier - reaching 47,000 minutes per day.
IATA said delays were mostly caused by staffing and capacity shortages, weather disruptions like thunderstorms 
and strikes such as those this year in France. Demand, too, has grown: Traffic is up 3.8 percent this year in Europe, 
and June 29 set a new one-day record for commercial flights on the continent: 36,825.
But the trade association, which counts some 290 airlines including giant carriers like Air France, British Airways 
and Lufthansa but not low-cost carriers EasyJet and Ryanair, largely pinned blame on air navigation service 
providers that direct air traffic.
The industry association is in essence accusing the air control agencies of sitting on mounds of cash at a time when 
needs have soared.
"Unfortunately, key ANSPs in Europe have not made needed investments in their businesses, preferring instead to 
make super-normal profits," IATA said in a statement. The largest ones, it said, had "either under-invested in staff" 
or used "outdated employment practices which don't deploy staff when and where they're most needed."
The increased flight delays in Europe are expected to continue throughout 2018.
"There is no quick fix for this year," IATA CEO Alexandre de Juniac said in a statement. "But the needed solutions 
are well known. With the correct investment and planning by governments and ANSPs we can, and must, make 
next year better."
Airline group faults Europe traffic controllers amid delays
IATA also said air traffic control agencies - many of them state-run - are actually making more profit than airlines. 
EUROCONTROL said European ANSPs have made an average of 9.6 percent earnings before interest and taxes 
in recent years, while IATA expects airlines will tally 6.4 percent EBIT this year, down from 6.8 percent last year.
Quentin Browell of the Civil Air Navigation Services Organization, which brings together the air navigation service 
providers, rejected the claim that ANSPs were making "super-normal profits" - but defended their right to make a 
return.
"In principle, the fact that the majority of ANSPs are state-owned entities does not change the fact that a return on 
capital employed is also appropriate," he said in an e-mail. "Those who stump up the capital (whether state or 
private) need to be remunerated."
Browell said his group's members had invested 6.2 billion euros ($7.2 billion) between 2011 and 2016 to modernize 
and upgrade their air navigation services infrastructure. The group believes greater urgency is needed to create a 
"pan-European approach to airspace management" that could help reduce the growing delays.
"ANSPs in Europe are taking steps to reduce delays and improve efficiency, while further enhancing safety and 
striving to keep costs down for airlines and their passengers," he said. "ANSPs strive to keep costs as low as 
possible for their airline customers."
Plus, unexpectedly high traffic can't be resolved quickly, he said.
"Unexpected increases in demand often mean that (air traffic management) does not have the necessary capacity 
and staff to handle the extra traffic," Browell wrote, pointing to the need for long-term investment.
IATA countered that such investments should have been made earlier.
Load-Date: July 19, 2018
End of Document
UK Earnings, Trading Statements Calendar - Next 7 Days
UK Earnings, Trading Statements Calendar - Next 7 Days
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 18, 2018 Wednesday 11:10 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 425 words
Body
 Thursday 19 July&nbsp;Anglo AmericanQ2 ProductionBabcock InternationalTrading Statement&nbsp;UnileverHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Moneysupermarket.comHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Breedon 
GroupHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;EvrazTrading Statement&nbsp;NicholsHalf Year Results&nbsp;SSETrading Statement&nbsp;AO 
WorldTrading Statement&nbsp;Sports Direct InternationalFull Year Results&nbsp;Euromoney Institutional 
InvestorTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Hilton 
Food 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;MothercareTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Big 
YellowTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Dotdigital 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Friday 
20 
July&nbsp;Acacia 
MiningHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;BeazleyHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;KCOM 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;AudioboomHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;HomeserveTrading 
Statement&nbsp;RecordTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Monday 23 July&nbsp;Ryanair HoldingsQ1 ResultsAscentialHalf Year Results&nbsp;McColl's 
Retail 
GroupHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;TungstenFull 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Paragon 
Banking 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;MicrogenHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;SthreeHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;JTCTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Tuesday 
24 
July&nbsp;IG 
Group 
HoldingsFull 
Year 
ResultsDrax 
GroupHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Fevertree 
Drinks&nbsp;Half 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Gresham 
Technologies&nbsp;Half 
Year 
Results&nbsp;PZ 
CussonsFull 
Year 
ResultsSpectrisHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Victoria&nbsp;Full 
Year 
ResultsCentaur Media&nbsp;Half Year Results&nbsp;HammersonHalf Year Results&nbsp;HuntsworthHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;Unite 
GroupHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;BritvicTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Wednesday 
25 
July&nbsp;GlaxoSmithKlineHalf Year Results (at 1200 BST)Vodafone GroupTrading Statement&nbsp;Joules 
GroupFull Year Results&nbsp;Wizz AirQ1 Results&nbsp;Staffline GroupHalf Year Results&nbsp;QuartixHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;IndiviorHalf Year Results&nbsp;Burford CapitalHalf Year Results&nbsp;Fulham ShoreHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;IDOXHalf Year Results&nbsp;IP GroupHalf Year Results&nbsp;QinetiQQ1 Results&nbsp;Capital & 
Counties PropertiesHalf Year Results&nbsp;InformaHalf Year Results&nbsp;Croda InternationalHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;TymanHalf Year Results&nbsp;Rathbone BrothersHalf Year Results&nbsp;VictrexHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;3i 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;AntofagastaQ2 
ProductionBrewin 
DolphinTrading 
Statement&nbsp;FresnilloQ2 ProductionInternational Personal FinanceHalf Year Results&nbsp;ITVHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;Marston'sTrading Statement&nbsp;Metro BankHalf Year Results&nbsp;Tullow OilHalf Year 
Results&nbsp;Primary Health PropertiesHalf Year Results&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Copyright 2018 Alliance News 
Limited. 
UK Earnings, Trading Statements Calendar - Next 7 Days
All Rights Reserved.
Load-Date: July 19, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair cancels 600 flights for next week as strike looms
Ryanair cancels 600 flights for next week as strike looms
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 18, 2018 Wednesday 9:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 229 words
Byline: Christian Ebner in Frankfurt
Dateline: Frankfurt (dpa) - 
Body
Low-cost airline Ryanair has cancelled 600 flights scheduled for the coming week due to the threat of impending 
strikes by cabin crew, the carrier announced Wednesday.
Some 50,000 passengers will be affected by the cancellations next Wednesday and Thursday, Ryanair said on 
Twitter.
The move would affect 200 flights to and from Spain on each of the days, as well as 50 each for Portugal and 
Belgium, together accounting for around 12 per cent of the airline's total European flight network.
Ryanair's flight attendants are walking out following a call by the cabin crews' respective unions in each of the three 
countries.
Whether German airports are affected by the failures, the airline could not say. Affected passengers would be 
informed.
Ryanair's employees are seeking higher salaries and an improvement in working conditions. The company's Irish 
pilots are also planning to strike this Friday and next Tuesday.
Affected passengers were informed by e-mail or text messages, and have been offered re-bookings or a full refund, 
Ryanair said.
According to company spokesman Kenny Jacobs, the strikes were unjustified, and would only disrupt family 
vacations and benefit the competition.
The flight attendants currently receive salaries of up to 40,000 euros (46,600 dollars) a year, he added.
Ryanair cancels 600 flights for next week as strike looms
Editorial contactsEditing by: Martin Waldman, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: July 19, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair cancels 600 flights for next week as strike looms
Ryanair cancels 600 flights for next week as strike looms
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 18, 2018 Wednesday 9:14 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 225 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Low-cost airline Ryanair has cancelled 600 flights scheduled for the coming week 
due to the threat of impending strikes by cabin crew, the carrier announced Wednesday.  Some 50,000 passengers 
will be affected by the cancellations next Wednesday and Thursday, Ryanair said on Twitter.  The move would 
affect 200 flights to and from Spain on each of the days, as well as 50 each for Portugal and Belgium, together 
accounting for around 12 per cent of the airline's total European flight network.  Ryanair's flight attendants are 
walking out following a call by the cabin crews' respective unions in each of the three countries.  Whether German 
airports are affected by the failures, the airline could not say. Affected passengers would be informed.  Ryanair's 
employees are seeking higher salaries and an improvement in working conditions. The company's Irish pilots are 
also planning to strike this Friday and next Tuesday.  Affected passengers were informed by e-mail or text 
messages, and have been offered re-bookings or a full refund, Ryanair said.  According to company spokesman 
Kenny Jacobs, the strikes were unjustified, and would only disrupt family vacations and benefit the competition.  
The flight attendants currently receive salaries of up to 40,000 euros (46,600 dollars) a year, he added.   Copyright 
dpa    
Load-Date: July 18, 2018
End of Document
Vilnius airport's operator invites airlines to serve London City; State enterprise Lithuanian Airports has called on 
interested carriers to establish a direct l....
Vilnius airport's operator invites airlines to serve London City; State 
enterprise Lithuanian Airports has called on interested carriers to establish 
a direct link between Vilnius and London City airport.
Flight International
July 18, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 218 words
Body
State enterprise Lithuanian Airports has called on interested carriers to establish a direct link between Vilnius and 
London City airport.
Obtaining rights to the route will be predicated on the applicant's commitment to providing at least six daily services 
a week across the full year.
Lithuania's transport and communications ministry says the operator-selection campaign envisages a dual mode: "A 
two-month period is assigned for taking in pitches in response to advertisements. Unless viable proposals emerge, 
Lithuanian Airports would then invite competitive bids through a formal tender process."
The ministry adds that the winning bidder could be eligible for state financial backing, if an approval from EU 
competition authorities is obtained.
Lithuania's Investment Promotion Agency says it deems the opening of London City services to be "crucially 
important for the Vilnius International airport as well as for the country's social and economic development". It adds: 
"Hence, the project has been included in the government sponsorship programme aimed at boosting cross-border 
services to and from the country's three airports."
FlightGlobal schedules data indicates that Ryanair and Wizz Air serve the Lithuanian capital from London Luton, 
while Ryanair operates flights to Vilnius from London Stansted.
Load-Date: July 19, 2018
End of Document
This small, loss making airline could be a sector beater
This small, loss making airline could be a sector beater
Citywire
July 18, 2018 Wednesday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 878 words
Byline: Joshua Thurston
Highlight: The aviation industry is rightly worried about the consequences of Brexit, but fund managers are 
continuing to back budget airlines.
Body
The aviation industry is rightly worried about the consequences of Brexit, but despite the uncertainty fund managers 
are continuing to back budget airlines.
Mike Clements, manager of the Oyster Continental European Selection fund is backing EasyJet to prosper. He 
says: ‘When Brexit hits it might have some short-term negative sentiment towards it [EasyJet]. So it’s a risk but it is 
still a long-term winner,’ says
Europe’s airport trade association has said that both Britain and EU countries need to make contingency plans for 
the impact of a no-deal Brexit on aviation.
A deal needs to be agreed between the European Aviation Safety Industry (EASA) and the UK’s Civil Aviation 
Authority (CAA) so airlines can fly to the European Union post-Brexit, but no progress has yet been made.
Reaping rewards
However, Citywire A-rated Clements, who has a small 0.21% weighting to EasyJet in his European fund , is not 
worried. He argues that EasyJet is set to reap the rewards of industry consolidation and higher oil prices.
‘If you look at the airline industry, EasyJet is one of the ways to play the best part of the industry which is the low-
cost bit,’ he contends. ‘The business is going to take market share away from established carriers. Bottom line, it is 
lower cost than British Airways in whatever route it flies.’
The carrier also has an advantage over its competitor Ryanair, in Clements’ opinion, because it flies to ‘proper 
places’.
‘The cost base is not as low as Ryanair, but it is still much lower than the legacy carriers because it has newer 
planes, better fuel efficiency, it has cheaper staff and pays lower ground handling costs.
‘EasyJet will carry decent returns simply because its cost structure is untouchable compared to the legacy airlines.’
Impact of higher oil price
This small, loss making airline could be a sector beater
Margaret Lawson, manager of the SVM UK Growth fund  says: ‘Airlines are a challenging sector for investors. It is 
hard to set aside the love/hate emotion of personal experience as consumers – the excitement of travel, muted by 
delays and the pain of hidden charges. Rational investment analysis is difficult.’
She adds that while the rising oil price might be viewed as a reason to avoid the sector, Lawson believes that those 
who do so are missing the strategic shift the industry is experiencing.
Colin McLean, Lawson’s co-manager agrees, pointing out that older airlines find it harder to pass on costs, typically 
running less efficient operations. Therefore the higher oil prices could benefit the low cost airlines and accelerate 
the move away from incumbents.
‘The disappearance of Monarch and Air Berlin, combined with the bankruptcy of Alitalia, brings more pricing 
discipline into the industry. Not only are ticket prices likely to rise as discounting ends, but new charges for seat 
selection and luggage are already coming in,’ he says.
‘Raising prices becomes easier as planes approach full capacity. The surviving airlines are also proving more adept 
at using their customer data to sell hotels, car hire and other travel services… Investors need to strip away the 
emotion and re-appraise the travel sector. The remaining businesses are creating an industry that looks much more 
attractive for investors.’
Flybe
One of the remaining businesses is Exeter-based Flybe. The company posted a loss of £19.2 million in the 12 
months to March, up from £6.7 million year-on-year.
Despite this, Andrew Hunt, investment director at Aberdeen Standard Investments, believes there is a positive story 
behind the numbers.
‘Flybe is a recovery story, with highly proactive new management full of good ideas for the business. We believe 
that in the long-term, Flybe’s future looks attractive.’
Specifically, he highlights three areas he sees the airline improving on.
First, Flybe is currently rationalising its fleet to focus on its most profitable routes. It is also changing its 
maintenance programme to improve reliability. The business is also implementing a new IT system and digital 
platform to improve booking and customer experience, to save costs, and to enable integration with other airlines’ 
flights.
‘In addition, there is a key strategic rationale for Flybe that puts it front and centre of UK passenger aviation,’ says 
Hunt.
‘Basically, people are flying more, and there is a limited capacity of flying out of London, which has been the historic 
UK hub – London airports are expensive and massively overcrowded.’
He says this is driving more UK passengers who do not live in London to fly out of the UK from regional airports like 
Glasgow, Manchester, and Cardiff. 
‘Furthermore, passengers tend to prefer avoiding London and it is often more practical. Hence, big airlines like 
Emirates are increasingly flying out of regional airports.’
Feeder airlines
Flybe also has another key role, for Hunt, as a ‘feeder airline’ for these new and emerging hubs.
This small, loss making airline could be a sector beater
‘If you live in Portsmouth, instead of going to London to get to New York, you might go Portsmouth-Cardiff with 
Flybe, Cardiff-New York with an international carrier. Flybe’s current IT upgrade and integration is key to tying in 
these feeder flights, and will make it an increasingly essential part of the UK aviation system.’
In his Standard Life Investments UK Equity Recovery fund , Hunt holds a 0.74% stake in the beleaguered airline.  
Load-Date: July 19, 2018
End of Document
BA -owner adds to Level's long plane fleet
BA-owner adds to Level's long plane fleet
City A.M.
July 18, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 184 words
Byline: VICTORIA BRYAN
Body
IAG, THE owner of British Airways and Iberia, has committed to two more A330-200 long-haul planes for its new 
budget unit Level, Airbus said yesterday.
Level currently plans to operate five A330 jets this year on its long-haul operations from Barcelona and Paris, and 
Airbus said the two additional planes would be delivered in 2019.
Level, set up last year, has so far focused on long-haul flights, but yesterday started its first shorthaul flight from 
Vienna to London.
Most budget airlines offer short-haul routes, but Level was established last year to offer lowcost long-haul flights, 
joining a handful of other airlines in this relatively new market, including Nor wegian.
"One of the reasons we chose the Level brand to operate from Vienna (is) that we are looking for opportunities to 
further expand long-haul flights," IAG chief executive Walsh said at a news conference in Vienna to launch Level, 
adding that a decision on the new routes had not been taken yet. But Level will initially fly short-haul routes from 
Vienna where it will compete with Europe's biggest low-cost carrier Ryanair. Reuters
Load-Date: July 18, 2018
End of Document
UK Earnings, Trading Statements Calendar - Next 7 Days
UK Earnings, Trading Statements Calendar - Next 7 Days
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 17, 2018 Tuesday 11:02 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 318 words
Body
 Wednesday 18 July&nbsp;easyJetQ3 ResultsHochschild MiningTrading Statement&nbsp;RPC GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Severn 
TrentTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Premier 
FoodsTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Close 
BrothersTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Connect 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Carr's 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Newriver REITTrading Statement&nbsp;Alliance PharmaTrading Statement&nbsp;Thursday 19 
July&nbsp;Anglo 
AmericanQ2 
ProductionBabcock 
InternationalTrading 
Statement&nbsp;UnileverHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Moneysupermarket.comHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Breedon 
GroupHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;EvrazTrading Statement&nbsp;NicholsHalf Year Results&nbsp;SSETrading Statement&nbsp;AO 
WorldTrading Statement&nbsp;Sports Direct InternationalFull Year Results&nbsp;Euromoney Institutional 
InvestorTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Hilton 
Food 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;MothercareTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Big 
YellowTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Dotdigital 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Friday 
20 
July&nbsp;Acacia 
MiningHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;BeazleyHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;KCOM 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;AudioboomHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;HomeserveTrading 
Statement&nbsp;RecordTrading 
Statement&nbsp;Monday 23 July&nbsp;Ryanair HoldingsQ1 ResultsAscentialHalf Year Results&nbsp;McColl's 
Retail 
GroupHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;TungstenFull 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Paragon 
Banking 
GroupTrading 
Statement&nbsp;SthreeHalf Year Results&nbsp;JTCTrading Statement&nbsp;Tuesday 24 July&nbsp;IG Group 
HoldingsFull 
Year 
ResultsDrax 
GroupHalf 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Fevertree 
Drinks&nbsp;Half 
Year 
Results&nbsp;Gresham Technologies&nbsp;Half Year Results&nbsp;PZ CussonsFull Year ResultsSpectrisHalf 
Year Results&nbsp;Victoria&nbsp;Full Year ResultsCentaur Media&nbsp;Half Year Results&nbsp;HammersonHalf 
Year Results&nbsp;HuntsworthHalf Year Results&nbsp;Unite GroupHalf Year Results&nbsp;BritvicTrading 
Statement&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Copyright 2018 Alliance News Limited. 
All Rights Reserved.
Load-Date: July 18, 2018
End of Document
Baillie Gifford & Co. Acquires 133,294 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Baillie Gifford & Co. Acquires 133,294 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
July 17, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 751 words
Body
Ryanair logo Baillie Gifford & Co. grew its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 2.3% in the 2nd 
quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The institutional 
investor  owned 5,936,962 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 133,294 
shares during the period. Baillie Gifford & Co. owned 2.53% of Ryanair worth $678,179,000 as of its most recent 
SEC filing.  
A number of other hedge funds have also bought and sold shares of the business. Castleark Management LLC 
lifted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 20.3% in the fourth quarter. Castleark Management LLC now owns 2,520 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $263,000 after buying an additional 425 shares during the last 
quarter.  Comerica Bank lifted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 3.4% in the first quarter. Comerica Bank now owns 
15,202 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,756,000 after buying an additional 494 shares during 
the last quarter.  Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. lifted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 35.5% in the 
fourth quarter. Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. now owns 2,754 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $287,000 after buying an additional 721 shares during the last quarter.  W.G. Shaheen & 
Associates DBA Whitney & Co lifted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 2.5% in the first quarter. W.G. Shaheen & 
Associates DBA Whitney & Co now owns 30,884 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $3,794,000 
after buying an additional 744 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Lester Murray Antman dba SimplyRich lifted 
its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 10.7% in the first quarter. Lester Murray Antman dba SimplyRich now owns 8,601 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,057,000 after buying an additional 832 shares during the last 
quarter. 43.70% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
RYAAY has been the subject of a number of analyst reports. Zacks Investment Research  upgraded shares of 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price objective for the company in a research note 
on Thursday, March 29th. Deutsche Bank cut shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research 
note on Thursday, June 7th.            ValuEngine  cut shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a 
research note on Wednesday, May 9th. BidaskClub upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "strong-
buy" rating in a research note on Friday, May 25th. Finally, Exane BNP Paribas cut shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Three equities research analysts 
have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have given a hold rating and three have issued  a buy rating to the 
company's stock. The company currently has an average rating of "Hold" and a consensus price target of $138.00. 
Baillie Gifford & Co. Acquires 133,294 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Ryanair traded up $1.79, hitting $117.95, during trading hours on Tuesday, Marketbeat Ratings  reports. 3,361 
shares of the company traded hands, compared to its average volume of 237,471. The stock has a market cap of 
$27.05 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.60 and a beta of 0.67. Ryanair Holdings plc has a twelve month low of $101.10 and 
a twelve month high of $127.61. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a quick 
ratio of 1.23.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, beating the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The firm 
had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a 
net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%.  equities research analysts anticipate that  Ryanair 
Holdings plc will post 6.72 EPS for the current year.  
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Short Selling Stocks and Day Traders   
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: July 17, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Holdings Trimmed by Scout Investments Inc.
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Holdings Trimmed by Scout Investments Inc.
American Banking and Market News
July 17, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 739 words
Body
Ryanair logo Scout Investments Inc. trimmed its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 4.2% 
during the second quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). The institutional investor  owned 201,541 shares of the transportation company's stock after 
selling 8,924 shares during the period. Scout Investments Inc. owned approximately 0.09% of Ryanair worth 
$23,022,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
Several other institutional investors have also recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. Massachusetts Financial 
Services Co. MA lifted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 53.3% in the first quarter. Massachusetts Financial 
Services Co. MA now owns 2,217,338 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $272,400,000 after 
purchasing an additional 770,774 shares in the last quarter.  FIL Ltd lifted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 
659.3% in the first quarter. FIL Ltd now owns 575,221 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$70,665,000 after purchasing an additional 499,469 shares in the last quarter.  Thornburg Investment Management 
Inc. lifted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 20.4% in the first quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. 
now owns 1,973,942 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $242,499,000 after purchasing an 
additional 334,623 shares in the last quarter.  Deutsche Bank AG lifted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 754.1% 
in the fourth quarter. Deutsche Bank AG now owns 259,890 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$27,076,000 after purchasing an additional 229,460 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, WCM Investment 
Management CA lifted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 5.2% in the first quarter. WCM Investment Management 
CA now owns 3,719,251 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $456,910,000 after purchasing an 
additional 185,253 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors own  43.70% of the company's stock.  
A number of analysts recently issued reports on RYAAY shares. BidaskClub raised Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a 
"strong-buy" rating in a research report on Friday, May 25th. Zacks Investment Research  raised Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $138.00 target price on the stock in a research report on Wednesday, April 
11th. BNP Paribas downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on 
Thursday, June 7th.            ValuEngine  downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research 
report on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Exane BNP Paribas downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. Three equities research analysts have rated the stock 
with a sell rating, six have assigned  a hold rating and three have issued  a buy rating to the company. The 
company currently has an average rating of "Hold" and an average price target of $138.00. 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Holdings Trimmed by Scout Investments Inc.
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $116.16 on Tuesday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 
1.23 and a current ratio of 1.23. The stock has a market capitalization of $27.05 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.48 and a 
beta of 0.67. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $101.10 and a 52-week high of $127.61.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, beating analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. 
The business had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion. 
Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%.  analysts anticipate that  Ryanair Holdings 
plc will post 6.72 earnings per share for the current year.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: Earnings Per Share (EPS) Explained 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: July 17, 2018
End of Document
CorporaciÃ³n AmÃ©rica Airports announces preliminary year-over-year passenger traffic growth
CorporaciÃ³n AmÃ©rica Airports announces preliminary year-over-year 
passenger traffic growth
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
July 17, 2018 Tuesday 3:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 485 words
Highlight: CorporaciÃ³n AmÃ©rica Airports has reported preliminary year-over-year passenger traffic growth of 
5.8% in June 2018.
Body
Passenger Traffic OverviewTotal passenger trafficin June 2018 increased by 5.8% compared to the same period of 
2017, primarily reflecting growth of 11.1% in Brazil, 2.0% in Argentina and 4.2% in Italy.In Brazil, passenger traffic 
at Brasilia Airport continued to recover increasing by 12.0% in June 2018, mainly due to 16.8% growth in domestic 
passengers. This increase was driven by additional frequencies in existing routes to several domestic destinations 
by Gol, Latam and Azul which increased their weekly flights by 13%, 8% and 18%, respectively.In Argentina, 
domestic traffic increased 9% YoY, partially offset by declines of 7% and 14% in international and transit 
passengers, respectively reflecting the initial impact of the currency depreciation and more challenging macro 
conditions. Additional routes and flights to existing destinations were added in Argentina during the last twelve 
months. 
Aerolineas Argentinas added new frequencies to Madrid, Punta Cana, RÃ­o de Janeiro and SÃ£o Pablo. Copa 
Airlines also increased its monthly frequencies from both Aeroparque and Ezeiza to Panama, Latam added 
frequencies to SÃ£o Pablo. Low-cost carriers continued to expand operations during this period. LEVEL began 
flying from Ezeiza to Barcelona, Gol added new frequencies to SÃ£o Pablo and Recife, and Azul Linhas Aereas 
added frequencies to Belo Horizonte.In addition, low-cost carrier Fly Bondi, flying out of El Palomar Airport, 
continued to increase connectivity throughout Argentina by adding flights to Salta Airport, and by increasing the 
overall number of frequencies it offers across the country.The Company's Italian airports reported a 4.2% YoY 
increase in traffic, mainly due to the opening of new international and domestic flights, and the addition of new 
frequencies, that are taking place during the Italian summer season. Operating at Pisa Airport, Pobeda opened a 
new route to St. Petersburg and added frequencies to Moscow. In addition, Ryanair expanded its Pisa Airport 
network and added frequencies to both domestic and international destinations. Moreover, TAP opened a new 
international route to Portugal (Lisbon) operated from Florence Airport.Passenger traffic in Uruguay declined 4.2% 
compared to June 2017 mainly as a result of the devaluation of the Real against the US Dollar and to a lower 
CorporaciÃ³n AmÃ©rica Airports announces preliminary year-over-year passenger traffic growth
degree as a result of the devaluation of the Argentinean Peso against the US Dollar, which resulted in a decrease in 
Brazilian and Argentinean passengers, respectively.Cargo Volume and Aircraft MovementsCargo volumewasup 
4.7% in June 2018. Growth was primarily driven by Brazil which posted a 30.2% YoY increase, followed by a 36.7% 
increase in Ecuador, both as a result of improved economic conditions.Aircraft movementsincreased by 4.8% in 
June 2018 mainly driven by Argentina, up 7.3% during the period, followed by Peru and Brazil, with an increase of 
15.2% and 2.2% respectively.
Load-Date: July 31, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to Cancel 24 Flights on July 20 as Irish Pilots Stage Another Day of Strike
Ryanair to Cancel 24 Flights on July 20 as Irish Pilots Stage Another Day of 
Strike
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 17, 2018 Tuesday 10:29 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 92 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) will cancel 24 flights between Ireland and the UK on July 20 as Irish pilots stage the 
second of three planned strikes.
In a Twitter post, the budget carrier said that it has formed a working committee to explain the issues to the pilots 
but they refused to take part in negotiations, voting instead to a hold a strike. These pilots, around 100 of the 350 
Irish pilots, have voiced concerns about seniority, an issue the company says will have implications for pilots' 
prospects.
Price: 117.47, Change: +1.31, Percent Change: +1.13
Load-Date: July 18, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to cancel 24 flights on Friday due to Ireland pilots strike
Ryanair to cancel 24 flights on Friday due to Ireland pilots strike
Business World (Digest)
July 17, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 168 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair plans to cancel 24 flights between Ireland and Britain on Friday due to a strike by its Ireland-based pilots, 
the second of three planned for July, Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers said on Tuesday.
Ryanair described the strikes as regrettable and said that the pilots involved - around 100 of 350 its pilots 
in Ireland - had refused to take part in a working group to resolve their complaints.
The pilots are demanding a more transparent system of pay, promotions and transfers as they aim to limit what the 
FORSA/IALPA union says is management's excessive discretion over pilots’ careers.
The pilots are also planning to strike on July 24.
Cabin crew in four countries have announced plans to strike on July 25 and 26 and several other pilot unions are 
considering industrial action to demand improved conditions.
Ryanair operates in 37 countries, carried 130 million passengers last year and flies around 2,300 flights per day 
during its peak summer season. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 15, 2018
End of Document
Airline rejects Lufthansa late payment allegations
Airline rejects Lufthansa late payment allegations
City A.M.
July 17, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 182 words
Byline: KIRSTI KNOLLE
Body
AUSTRIAN leisure airline Laudamotion said yesterday it had always paid its bills for planes leased from Lufthansa 
in full and on time, rejecting allegations made by the German rival.
The German flagship carrier said on Friday that Laudamotion repeatedly failed to meet its contractually-agreed 
lease payment obligations and that it plans to end the leasing agreement for nine Airbus A320s, nearly half of 
Laudamotion's fleet.
"These accusations are unfounded," Laudamotion managing director Andreas Gruber told journalists. "We have 
paid all our bills on time."
Laudamotion flies a fleet of nine Airbus A320s leased from Lufthansa and 10 Boeing) 737 jets from shareholder 
Ryanair.
A first hearing at a court in Britain regarding the lease agreement is scheduled for Friday.
Asked about a plan B in case the court decides in favour of Lufthansa, Gruber said: "There is no need for a plan B."
Laudamotion is examining whether to claim damages from Lufthansa for delayed payment of around (EURO)1.5m 
(£1.3m) for flights which Laudamotion operated for Lufthansa in March, April and May, Gruber said.
Reuters
Load-Date: July 17, 2018
Airline rejects Lufthansa late payment allegations
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) vs. Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Head to Head Analysis
Ryanair (RYAAY) vs. Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Head to Head Analysis
Transcript Daily
July 16, 2018 Monday 10:14 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Body
Jul 16, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair (NASDAQ: RYAAY) and 
Intl Cons Airl/S (OTCMKTS:ICAGY) are both transportation companies, but which is the superior business? We will 
compare the two businesses based on the strength of their earnings, valuation, profitability, analyst 
recommendations, institutional ownership, risk and dividends. 
Analyst RecommendationsThis is a summary of current recommendations for Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S, as 
provided by MarketBeat.com. ProfitabilityThis table compares Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S's net margins, return on 
equity and return on assets. Volatility ...sk Ryanair has a beta of 0.67, suggesting that its stock price is 33% less 
volatile than the S...00. Comparatively, Intl Cons Airl/S has a beta of 1, suggesting that its stock price has a similar 
volatility profile to the S...00. DividendsIntl Cons Airl/S pays an annual dividend of $0.52 per share and has a 
dividend yield of 2.9%. Ryanair does not pay a dividend. Intl Cons Airl/S pays out 9.0% of its earnings in the form of 
a dividend. Insider ...stitutional Ownership43.7% of Ryanair shares are held by institutional investors. 
Comparatively, 0.1% of Intl Cons Airl/S shares are held by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is 
an indication that endowments, hedge funds and large money managers believe a stock will outperform the market 
over the long term.Valuation ...rnings This table compares Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S's gross revenue, earnings 
per share (EPS) and valuation. Intl Cons Airl/S has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. Intl Cons Airl/S is 
trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two 
stocks. SummaryRyanair beats Intl Cons Airl/S on 8 of the 14 factors compared between the two stocks.Ryanair 
Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services 
in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, 
such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and 
travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
In addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car 
parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 
737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving 
approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, 
Ireland.Intl Cons Airl/S Company ProfileInternational Consolidated Airlines Group, S.A., together with its 
subsidiaries, engages in the provision of passenger and cargo transportation services in the United Kingdom, 
Spain, Ireland, the United States, and rest of the world. The company operates under the British Airways, Iberia, 
Vueling, LEVEL, IAG Cargo, Avios, and Aer Lingus brands. As of February 12, 2018, it operated a fleet of 547 
aircraft flying to 268 destinations. The company was incorporated in 2010 and is based in Madrid, Spain. 
Ryanair (RYAAY) vs. Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Head to Head Analysis
Load-Date: July 16, 2018
End of Document
The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company Sells 5,926 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company Sells 5,926 Shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc (RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
July 15, 2018 Sunday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 781 words
Body
Ryanair logo The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company lowered its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 31.3% during the first quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with 
the Securities & Exchange Commission. The fund owned 13,033 shares of the transportation company's stock after 
selling 5,926 shares during the period. The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company's holdings in Ryanair were 
worth $1,600,000 as of its most recent filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission.  
A number of other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently modified their holdings of 
RYAAY. WCM Investment Management CA lifted its holdings in  Ryanair by 5.2% in the first quarter. WCM 
Investment Management CA now owns 3,719,251 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$456,910,000 after acquiring an additional 185,253 shares during the period.  Massachusetts Financial Services 
Co. MA lifted its holdings in  Ryanair by 53.3% in the first quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now 
owns 2,217,338 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $272,400,000 after acquiring an additional 
770,774 shares during the period.  Thornburg Investment Management Inc. lifted its holdings in  Ryanair by 20.4% 
in the first quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $242,499,000 after acquiring an additional 334,623 shares during the period.  JPMorgan 
Chase & Co. lifted its holdings in  Ryanair by 2.9% in the first quarter. JPMorgan Chase & Co. now owns 1,712,088 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $210,330,000 after acquiring an additional 48,728 shares 
during the period.  Finally, BlackRock Inc. lifted its holdings in  Ryanair by 0.6% in the first quarter. BlackRock Inc. 
now owns 979,342 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $120,313,000 after acquiring an 
additional 5,935 shares during the period. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own  43.70% of the 
company's stock.  
Several research analysts have recently weighed in on RYAAY shares. BidaskClub raised Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Monday, June 25th. Deutsche Bank  reaffirmed a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. Exane BNP Paribas downgraded Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas downgraded 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, 
ValuEngine  downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Wednesday, May 9th. 
Three equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have issued  a hold rating and three 
have given a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair  has an average rating of "Hold" and a consensus price 
target of $138.00. 
The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company Sells 5,926 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Shares of Ryanair traded down $0.02, hitting $115.50, during trading hours on Friday, MarketBeat Ratings  reports. 
224,484 shares of the company's stock were exchanged, compared to its average volume of 252,048. Ryanair 
Holdings plc has a fifty-two week low of $101.10 and a fifty-two week high of $127.61. The company has a market 
cap of $26.23 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.38 and a beta of 0.67. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio 
of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, topping the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by 
$0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. The company had revenue of $1.62 
billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion.  analysts anticipate that  Ryanair 
Holdings plc will post 6.72 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: July 15, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Sold by Manning Napier Group LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Manning Napier Group LLC
DailyPolitical
July 15, 2018 Sunday 5:05 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 697 words
Body
Jul 15, 2018( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Manning ...pier Group LLC 
lowered its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 7.3% during the second quarter, according to its 
most recent 13F filing with the SEC. The firm owned 231,970 shares of the transportation company's stock after 
selling 18,374 shares during the quarter. Manning ...pier Group LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $26,496,000 
as of its most recent filing with the SEC. 
A number of other institutional investors also recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. Mount Yale 
Investment Advisors LLC purchased a new position in Ryanair in the 1st quarter valued at $1,410,000. CIBC World 
Markets Inc. purchased a new position in Ryanair in the 1st quarter valued at $350,000. Royal Bank of Canada 
lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 9.6% in the 1st quarter. Royal Bank of Canada now owns 2,018,166 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $247,932,000 after purchasing an additional 176,959 shares in the last 
quarter. Legal ...neral Group Plc lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 2.9% in the 1st quarter. Legal ...neral Group Plc 
now owns 73,914 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $9,078,000 after purchasing an additional 
2,100 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Teewinot Capital Advisers L.L.C. lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 8.2% in 
the 1st quarter. Teewinot Capital Advisers L.L.C. now owns 194,170 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $23,854,000 after purchasing an additional 14,700 shares in the last quarter. 43.70% of the stock is 
currently owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors. NASDAQ RYAAY[1] opened at $115.50 on Friday. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $101.10 and a 52 week high of $127.61. The company has a debt-to-
equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a current ratio of 1.23. The firm has a market cap of $26.23 billion, a 
PE ratio of 16.38 and a beta of 0.67. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on 
Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping the consensus 
estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. The business 
had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion. sell-side analysts expect 
that Ryanair Holdings plc will post 6.72 earnings per share for the current fiscal year. A number of brokerages have 
weighed in on RYAAY. BidaskClub upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Monday, 
June 25th. Exane BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on 
Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on 
Thursday, June 7th. Deutsche Bank lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Thursday, 
June 7th. Finally, ValuEngine[2] lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Wednesday, 
May 9th. Three equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have given a hold rating and 
three have given a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock presently has an average rating of "Hold" and a 
consensus target price of $138.00.Ryanair ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Sold by Manning Napier Group LLC
scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It 
also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and 
markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale 
of beverages, food, and merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
[ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
Load-Date: July 15, 2018
End of Document
The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company Sells 5,926 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company Sells 5,926 Shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Transcript Daily
July 15, 2018 Sunday 1:06 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 814 words
Body
Jul 15, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  The Manufacturers Life Insurance 
Company lowered its position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 31.3% during the first quarter, 
according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the Securities ...change Commission. The fund owned 
13,033 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 5,926 shares during the period. The 
Manufacturers Life Insurance Company's holdings in Ryanair were worth $1,600,000 as of its most recent filing with 
the Securities ...change Commission. 
A number of other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently modified their holdings of 
RYAAY. WCM Investment Management CA lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 5.2% in the first quarter. WCM 
Investment Management CA now owns 3,719,251 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$456,910,000 after acquiring an additional 185,253 shares during the period. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. 
MA lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 53.3% in the first quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 
2,217,338 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $272,400,000 after acquiring an additional 
770,774 shares during the period. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 20.4% in 
the first quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $242,499,000 after acquiring an additional 334,623 shares during the period. JPMorgan 
Chase .... lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 2.9% in the first quarter. JPMorgan Chase .... now owns 1,712,088 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $210,330,000 after acquiring an additional 48,728 shares during the 
period. Finally, BlackRock Inc. lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 0.6% in the first quarter. BlackRock Inc. now owns 
979,342 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $120,313,000 after acquiring an additional 5,935 
shares during the period. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 43.70% of the company's stock. 
Several research analysts have recently weighed in on RYAAY shares. BidaskClub raised Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Monday, June 25th. Deutsche Bank reaffirmed a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. Exane BNP Paribas downgraded Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas downgraded 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, 
ValuEngine[1] downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Wednesday, May 
9th. Three equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have issued a hold rating and three 
have given a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair has an average rating of "Hold" and a consensus price 
target of $138.00.Shares of Ryanair traded down $0.02, hitting $115.50, during trading hours on Friday, MarketBeat 
Ratings[2] reports. 224,484 shares of the company's stock were exchanged, compared to its average volume of 
The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company Sells 5,926 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
252,048. Ryanair Holdings plc has a fifty-two week low of $101.10 and a fifty-two week high of $127.61. The 
company has a market cap of $26.23 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.38 and a beta of 0.67. The company has 
a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last 
released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 earnings 
per share for the quarter, topping the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity 
of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to 
analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. analysts anticipate that Ryanair Holdings plc will post 6.72 earnings per 
share for the current fiscal year. Ryanair ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides 
scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It 
also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and 
markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale 
of beverages, food, and merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
[ 1]: http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY [ 2]:            
https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 3]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
Load-Date: July 15, 2018
End of Document
Passenger fury at Ryanair after pressure drop forces landing
Passenger fury at Ryanair after pressure drop forces landing
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 14, 2018 Saturday 2:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 308 words
Dateline: BERLIN 
Body
BERLIN (AP) - Passengers of budget airline Ryanair expressed anger Saturday over the way the company treated 
them following an unscheduled landing in Germany that forced dozens to seek hospital treatment.
In interviews with German and Irish media, passengers described moments of terror as their plane - flying from 
Dublin to Zadar, Croatia, late Friday - descended suddenly, following what Ryanair said was a drop in cabin 
pressure.
Oxygen masks fell from the ceiling and passengers reported feeling intense pain in their ears until the plane leveled 
off and landed at Frankfurt-Hahn airport.
Minerva Galvan Domenech from Spain told news website Spiegel Online that passengers, some of them bleeding 
from their ears, mouth or nose, had to wait 45 minutes before being allowed to leave the plane.
German police said 33 of the 189 passengers on board were taken to a nearby hospital after complaining of 
headaches, ear pain and nausea. All were able to leave again by Saturday morning.
Passenger Conor Brennan told the Irish Times newspaper that "airport staff and Red Cross did their best to handle 
the situation, as Ryanair were nowhere to be seen."
"They really displayed a shocking lack of empathy for their customers, almost bordering on inhumane," he was 
quoted as saying.
Galvan Domenech said many passengers had to spend the night at the airport, some of them lying on the ground, 
according to Spiegel Online.
Ryanair said passengers received refreshment vouchers but there was "a shortage of available accommodation." 
Frankfurt-Hahn has long been a major base for Ryanair.
A replacement flight took some of the passengers to Croatia on Saturday.
Passenger fury at Ryanair after pressure drop forces landing
Ryanair has long been dogged by accusations of poor service and bad treatment of staff. Last week, Ryanair pilots 
in Ireland staged their first strike and two more walkouts are planned July 20 and July 24.
Load-Date: July 15, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair flight makes emergency landing in Germany after pressure drop
Ryanair flight makes emergency landing in Germany after pressure drop
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 14, 2018 Saturday 6:26 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 333 words
Byline: Reporting by Daniel Moeglich and Marc Kalpidis in Berlin
Dateline: Frankfurt (dpa) - 
Body
A Ryanair flight carrying 189 passengers from Dublin to the Croatian city of Zadar was diverted to Frankfurt-Hahn 
airport in Germany after a sudden loss in cabin pressure, police said Saturday.
Thirty-three passengers were taken to area hospitals. "The passengers complained of headaches and earaches, 
and suffered from nausea," a German federal police spokesman told dpa.
Other passengers spent the night at the airport.
On Saturday morning, a replacement aircraft departed to complete the trip to Zadar. However, 22 passengers could 
not fly for medical reasons, and would be taken to Zadar by bus, police said.
What exactly happened on board the Boeing 737 was not known.
"Experts must now clarify that, but that can take some time," the police spokesman said.
The plane landed at Frankfurt-Hahn Airport at 11:30 pm (2130 GMT) Friday night.
A passenger told German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung that there was a not-too-loud bang and a 
sudden drop in temperature inside the plane.
Oxygen masks dropped from above the seats before the crew announced there would be an emergency descent. 
While there had at first been some panic on board, everyone remained calm in the end.
Many passengers experienced earaches, while others reported bleeding from their ears. One woman was carried 
away on a stretcher.
Ryanair flight makes emergency landing in Germany after pressure drop
In a statement, Ryanair said the reason for the emergency landing was an "inflight depressurization." The airline did 
not provide any details on the exact cause of the incident, nor did it comment on the health of the passengers.
"A pressure drop can happen from time to time, but it only rarely leads to real problems," a spokesman for a 
German pilots' association, Janis Georg Schmitt, told dpa.
It does not put the aircraft in any danger of crashing, and instances of a pressure loss are regularly practised in 
flight simulators, he added.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Martin Waldman, +49 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;Editing by: Stephen 
Lowman, +49 30 2852 31472, <Lowman.Stephen@dpa.com;
Load-Date: July 15, 2018
End of Document
Stobart Group (STOB)
Stobart Group (STOB)
Financial Times (London, England)
July 14, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: MONEY;BUSINESS; Pg. 10
Length: 269 words
Body
Stobart looks well positioned.
It has signed an agreement with Ryanair to have three planes based at its London Southend Airport The upheaval 
surrounding the annual general meeting at Stobart Group has come to a conclusion - at least for now. Iain 
Ferguson has been reelected as chairman with 51.2 per cent of shareholder votes.
Former chief executive and founder of Stobart, Andrew Tinkler, has spent recent months encouraging shareholders 
to vote against Mr Ferguson, and instead to replace him with retail entrepreneur Philip Day.
Following the shareholder vote, it has been announced that Mr Ferguson will stand down after next year's AGM. 
The company said the decision was not related to the AGM, but was a natural progression, since the chairman 
would have been in he role for six years by the time he leaves. In the nearer term, Stobart is on the hunt for a new 
chief financial officer after Richard Laycock stepped down from his role.
Mr Tinkler was most recently a director at the company, but was fired by the board last month for breach of fiduciary 
duty and contract, and legal proceedings have been initiated against him. In turn, Mr Tinkler is suing the board for 
defamation. His termination meant that the AGM resolution to re-elect Mr Tinkler was made ineffective ahead of the 
AGM, but was later proposed on the floor at the event. The proposal won 51.4 per cent of shareholder votes, but 
was struck down by the board. Mr Tinkler has since tweeted that he will be investigating the outcome of the 
shareholder vote, calling his second removal by the board "corporate governance at its worst". Julia Faurschou
Stobart Group (STOB)
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
End of Document
Stobart Group (STOB)
Stobart Group (STOB)
Financial Times (London, England)
July 14, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: MONEY;BUSINESS; Pg. 10
Length: 269 words
Body
Stobart looks well positioned.
It has signed an agreement with Ryanair to have three planes based at its London Southend Airport The upheaval 
surrounding the annual general meeting at Stobart Group has come to a conclusion - at least for now. Iain 
Ferguson has been reelected as chairman with 51.2 per cent of shareholder votes.
Former chief executive and founder of Stobart, Andrew Tinkler, has spent recent months encouraging shareholders 
to vote against Mr Ferguson, and instead to replace him with retail entrepreneur Philip Day.
Following the shareholder vote, it has been announced that Mr Ferguson will stand down after next year's AGM. 
The company said the decision was not related to the AGM, but was a natural progression, since the chairman 
would have been in he role for six years by the time he leaves. In the nearer term, Stobart is on the hunt for a new 
chief financial officer after Richard Laycock stepped down from his role.
Mr Tinkler was most recently a director at the company, but was fired by the board last month for breach of fiduciary 
duty and contract, and legal proceedings have been initiated against him. In turn, Mr Tinkler is suing the board for 
defamation. His termination meant that the AGM resolution to re-elect Mr Tinkler was made ineffective ahead of the 
AGM, but was later proposed on the floor at the event. The proposal won 51.4 per cent of shareholder votes, but 
was struck down by the board. Mr Tinkler has since tweeted that he will be investigating the outcome of the 
shareholder vote, calling his second removal by the board "corporate governance at its worst". Julia Faurschou
Stobart Group (STOB)
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
End of Document
Stobart Group (STOB)
Stobart Group (STOB)
Financial Times (London, England)
July 14, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: MONEY;BUSINESS; Pg. 10
Length: 269 words
Body
Stobart looks well positioned.
It has signed an agreement with Ryanair to have three planes based at its London Southend Airport The upheaval 
surrounding the annual general meeting at Stobart Group has come to a conclusion - at least for now. Iain 
Ferguson has been reelected as chairman with 51.2 per cent of shareholder votes.
Former chief executive and founder of Stobart, Andrew Tinkler, has spent recent months encouraging shareholders 
to vote against Mr Ferguson, and instead to replace him with retail entrepreneur Philip Day.
Following the shareholder vote, it has been announced that Mr Ferguson will stand down after next year's AGM. 
The company said the decision was not related to the AGM, but was a natural progression, since the chairman 
would have been in he role for six years by the time he leaves. In the nearer term, Stobart is on the hunt for a new 
chief financial officer after Richard Laycock stepped down from his role.
Mr Tinkler was most recently a director at the company, but was fired by the board last month for breach of fiduciary 
duty and contract, and legal proceedings have been initiated against him. In turn, Mr Tinkler is suing the board for 
defamation. His termination meant that the AGM resolution to re-elect Mr Tinkler was made ineffective ahead of the 
AGM, but was later proposed on the floor at the event. The proposal won 51.4 per cent of shareholder votes, but 
was struck down by the board. Mr Tinkler has since tweeted that he will be investigating the outcome of the 
shareholder vote, calling his second removal by the board "corporate governance at its worst". Julia Faurschou
Stobart Group (STOB)
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
End of Document
Stobart Group (STOB)
Stobart Group (STOB)
Financial Times (London, England)
July 14, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: MONEY;BUSINESS; Pg. 10
Length: 269 words
Body
Stobart looks well positioned.
It has signed an agreement with Ryanair to have three planes based at its London Southend Airport The upheaval 
surrounding the annual general meeting at Stobart Group has come to a conclusion - at least for now. Iain 
Ferguson has been reelected as chairman with 51.2 per cent of shareholder votes.
Former chief executive and founder of Stobart, Andrew Tinkler, has spent recent months encouraging shareholders 
to vote against Mr Ferguson, and instead to replace him with retail entrepreneur Philip Day.
Following the shareholder vote, it has been announced that Mr Ferguson will stand down after next year's AGM. 
The company said the decision was not related to the AGM, but was a natural progression, since the chairman 
would have been in he role for six years by the time he leaves. In the nearer term, Stobart is on the hunt for a new 
chief financial officer after Richard Laycock stepped down from his role.
Mr Tinkler was most recently a director at the company, but was fired by the board last month for breach of fiduciary 
duty and contract, and legal proceedings have been initiated against him. In turn, Mr Tinkler is suing the board for 
defamation. His termination meant that the AGM resolution to re-elect Mr Tinkler was made ineffective ahead of the 
AGM, but was later proposed on the floor at the event. The proposal won 51.4 per cent of shareholder votes, but 
was struck down by the board. Mr Tinkler has since tweeted that he will be investigating the outcome of the 
shareholder vote, calling his second removal by the board "corporate governance at its worst". Julia Faurschou
Stobart Group (STOB)
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair flight diverted to Germany , police confirm
Ryanair flight diverted to Germany, police confirm
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 14, 2018 Saturday 2:49 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 96 words
Byline: Reporting by Daniel Moeglich and Marc Kalpidis in Berlin
Dateline: Frankfurt (dpa) - 
Body
A Ryanair flight from Dublin to the Croatian city of Zadar was diverted to Frankfurt-Hahn airport in Germany early 
Saturday, a German federal police spokesman told dpa.
Some 30 passengers were taken to a local hospital after feeling ill on the flight.
Details were not immediately available.
Whether the plane was forced to make an unscheduled stop due to the passengers' illness or for technical reasons 
was not clear.
A spokesman representing the airline could not be reached for comment.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Thomas Cronenberg, +61 2 9322 8064,  <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: July 14, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair flight diverted to Germany with sickened passengers
Ryanair flight diverted to Germany with sickened passengers
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 14, 2018 Saturday 7:07 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 131 words
Byline: Reporting by Daniel Moeglich and Marc Kalpidis in Berlin
Dateline: Frankfurt (dpa) - 
Body
A Ryanair flight from Dublin to the Croatian city of Zadar was diverted to Frankfurt-Hahn airport in Germany early 
Saturday, a German federal police spokesman told dpa.
Some 30 passengers were taken to a local hospital after feeling ill on the flight. A drop in cabin pressure was 
believed to have caused the problem.
"The passengers complained of headaches and earaches, and suffered from nausea," the police spokesman said.
There were 189 passengers on board the plane.
Paramedics took the sickened passengers to hospital, while the others spent the night at the airport.
What happened on board the plane was not immediately clear, but an investigation was being conducted, the police 
spokesman said.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Thomas Cronenberg, +61 2 9322 8064,  <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: July 15, 2018
End of Document
European Shares Advance As Trade Tensions Ease
European Shares Advance As Trade Tensions Ease
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 13, 2018 Friday 6:58 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 262 words
Body
 European stocks rose on Friday and remained on track for a second week of gains as China refrained from 
detailing retaliation plans against the latest US tariffs.
Amid little economic news, traders looked forward to earnings results from US financial giants for direction.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index was up 0.2% at 385.22 in late opening deals after climbing 0.8% on 
Thursday.
The German DAX and France's CAC 40 index were up around 0.3%, while the UK's FTSE 100 was gaining 0.6%.
The British pound drifted lower against its major opponents after a warning from US President Donald Trump that 
Prime Minister Theresa May's current 'soft-Brexit' proposal with the EU would probably "kill" any future trade deals 
with the US.
In an interview with The Sun, Trump said that PM's "soft Brexit" strategy would "affect trade with the US, 
unfortunately in a negative way."
"If they do a deal like that, we would be dealing with the EU instead of dealing with the UK, so it will probably kill the 
deal," Trump told the paper.
Ryanair Holdings rose about 1% after it received EU approval to buy a 75% interest in Austrian airline, 
Laudamotion, in which it already owns 24.9%.
Ashmore Group rallied 3.4%. The specialist Emerging Markets asset manager reported a drop in assets under 
management despite net inflows in its fourth quarter.
Recruitment firm Hays jumped more than 5% after its Group net fees for the fourth quarter increased 14% on a 
headline basis and 15% on a like-for-like basis against the prior year.
Switzerland's GAM Holding slumped 8.7% after a profit warning.
European Shares Advance As Trade Tensions Ease
Load-Date: July 14, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Gets EUApproval To Buy Laudamotion Stake; Urges Action Against Lufthansa
Ryanair Gets EUApproval To Buy Laudamotion Stake; Urges Action Against 
Lufthansa
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 13, 2018 Friday 8:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 346 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced Friday the EU Commission's decision 
to approve its proposed acquisition of a 75% interest in Austrian airline, Laudamotion, in which it already owns 
24.9%.  Further, noting the threat to Laudamotion by Lufthansa, Ryanair called on the competition authorities to halt 
Lufthansa's repeated abuses of its dominant position, which are designed to harm competition and consumers.  
Ryanair said it has entered into partnership with Niki Lauda to offer competition, lower fares, and more choice for 
consumers in Austria, Germany, and Spain, which is where the majority of Laudamotion services currently take 
place. 
 However, Laudamotion is currently under threat by Lufthansa who are attempting to remove the 9 aircraft 
Lufthansa was obliged by the European Commission to provide to Laudamotion in order to allow Laudamotion to 
restart services.  The company noted that Lufthansa is trying to destabilise and damage Laudamotion. Lufthansa 
failed to deliver 2 of the 11 aircraft they were required to under the EU Competition decision concerning Lufthansa's 
acquisition of Air Berlin.  Also, some of the aircraft that Lufthansa had committed to deliver being delayed until after 
the summer 2018 season, further reducing Laudamotion's ability to take up slots and offer S2018 flights and 
services.  Ryanair added that Laudamotion only able to operate a 19 aircraft fleet in summer 2018 by wet leasing 
10 B737 aircraft from Ryanair.  In addition, Lufthansa Group delay payment of over 1.5 million euros of wet lease 
payments properly due to Laudamotion, for flights which Laudamotion operated for Lufthansa in March, April and 
May.  Ryanair said it remains committed to bringing competition and choice to Austrian, German and Spanish 
markets through this investment in Laudamotion.  Ryanair's Chief Legal & Regulatory Officer, Juliusz Komorek said, 
'We urge the EU competition authorities to take action and prevent any further attempts by Lufthansa to damage 
competition through its anti-consumer behaviour.'      
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
Ryanair Gets EUApproval To Buy Laudamotion Stake; Urges Action Against Lufthansa
End of Document
European Markets Cling To Small Gains After Early Strength Recedes
European Markets Cling To Small Gains After Early Strength Recedes
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 13, 2018 Friday 12:24 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 606 words
Body
 The European markets got off to a positive start Friday, but pared their early gains over the course of the morning. 
The markets settled into a sideways patter in the afternoon and ended the session with small increases. 
Traders have been keeping a close eye on the UK as they host a visit from US President Trump.
The British pound weakened Friday, after Trump remarked that Prime Minister Theresa May's current 'soft-Brexit' 
proposal with the EU would probably "kill" any future trade deals with the US.
In an interview with The Sun, Trump said that PM's "soft Brexit" strategy would "affect trade with the US, 
unfortunately in a negative way."
"If they do a deal like that, we would be dealing with the EU instead of dealing with the UK, so it will probably kill the 
deal," Trump told the paper.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index advanced 0.17%. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks 
increased 0.26%, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major UK companies, added 0.21%.
The DAX of Germany climbed 0.38% and the CAC of France rose 0.43%. The FTSE 100 of the UK gained 0.14% 
and the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 0.49%.
In London, Ryanair Holdings rose 0.38% after it received EU approval to buy a 75% interest in Austrian airline, 
Laudamotion, in which it already owns 24.9%.
Ashmore Group rallied 0.86%. The specialist Emerging Markets asset manager reported a drop in assets under 
management despite net inflows in its fourth quarter.
Recruitment firm Hays jumped 8.58% after its Group net fees for the fourth quarter increased 14% on a headline 
basis and 15% on a like-for-like basis against the prior year.
European Markets Cling To Small Gains After Early Strength Recedes
China's exports increased more-than-expected in June and its trade surplus with the US reached a record high in 
the midst of escalating trade disputes between the two countries.
Data from the General Administration of Customs showed that exports increased 11.3% year-on-year in June, 
bigger than the expected 9.5%, but slower than the 12.6% rise seen in May.
At the same time, annual growth in imports slowed to 14.1%. Economists had forecast a sharp growth of 21.3% 
after May's 26% increase.
Consequently, the overall trade surplus surged to USD41.61 billion in June from about USD24.9 billion in May. The 
surplus with the US came in at record USD28.97 billion, Reuters and Bloomberg reported, citing their own 
calculations.
Germany's wholesale price inflation accelerated further in June to the highest level in nine months, data from 
Destatis showed Friday. Wholesale prices climbed 3.4% year-on-year in June, faster than the 2.9% increase seen 
in May.
A report released by the Labor Department on Friday showed an unexpected decrease in US import prices in the 
month of June, although the report also showed a slightly bigger than expected increase in export prices during the 
month.
The Labor Department said import prices fell by 0.4% in June after climbing by an upwardly revised 0.9% in May.
The pullback surprised economists, who had expected import prices to inch up by 0.1% compared to the 0.6% 
increase originally reported for the previous month.
Meanwhile, the Labor Department also said export prices rose by 0.3% in June following a 0.6% increase in May. 
Economists had expected export prices to edge up by 0.2%.
Reflecting concerns about the potential impact of tariffs, the University of Michigan released a report on Friday 
showing an unexpected deterioration in US consumer sentiment in the month of July.
The preliminary report said the consumer sentiment index dipped to 97.1 in July from the final June reading of 98.2. 
Economists had expected the index to come in unchanged.
Load-Date: July 14, 2018
End of Document
European Shares Advance As Trade Tensions Ease
European Shares Advance As Trade Tensions Ease
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 13, 2018 Friday 11:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 295 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - European stocks rose on Friday and remained on track for a 
second week of gains as China refrained from detailing retaliation plans against the latest U.S. tariffs.  Amid little 
economic news, traders looked forward to earnings results from U.S. financial giants for direction.  The pan-
European Stoxx Europe 600 index was up 0.2 percent at 385.22 in late opening deals after climbing 0.8 percent on 
Thursday. 
  The German DAX and France's CAC 40 index were up around 0.3 percent, while the U.K.'s FTSE 100 was 
gaining 0.6 percent.   The British pound drifted lower against its major opponents after a warning from U.S. 
President Donald Trump that Prime Minister Theresa May's current 'soft-Brexit' proposal with the EU would 
probably 'kill' any future trade deals with the United States.  In an interview with The Sun, Trump said that PM's 'soft 
Brexit' strategy would 'affect trade with the United States, unfortunately in a negative way.'  'If they do a deal like 
that, we would be dealing with the European Union instead of dealing with the U.K., so it will probably kill the deal,' 
Trump told the paper.  Ryanair Holdings rose about 1 percent after it received EU approval to buy a 75 percent 
interest in Austrian airline, Laudamotion, in which it already owns 24.9 percent.  Ashmore Group rallied 3.4 percent. 
The specialist Emerging Markets asset manager reported a drop in assets under management despite net inflows 
in its fourth quarter.  Recruitment firm Hays jumped more than 5 percent after its Group net fees for the fourth 
quarter increased 14 percent on a headline basis and 15 percent on a like-for-like basis against the prior year.  
Switzerland's GAM Holding slumped 8.7 percent after a profit warning.      
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
End of Document
FTSE 100 Rises As Pound Falls After Trump's Comments On Brexit
FTSE 100 Rises As Pound Falls After Trump's Comments On Brexit
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 13, 2018 Friday 11:16 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 228 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - U.K. shares were trading higher on Friday as China export data 
topped forecasts and the pound drifted lower against its major opponents after a warning from U.S. President 
Donald Trump that Prime Minister Theresa May's current 'soft-Brexit' proposal with the EU would probably 'kill' any 
future trade deals with the United States.  In an interview with The Sun, Trump said that PM's 'soft Brexit' strategy 
would 'affect trade with the United States, unfortunately in a negative way.' 
 'If they do a deal like that, we would be dealing with the European Union instead of dealing with the U.K., so it will 
probably kill the deal,' Trump told the paper.  The benchmark FTSE 100 was up 43 points or 0.56 percent at 7,693 
in late opening deals after rising 0.8 percent on Thursday.   Ryanair Holdings rose about 1 percent after it received 
EU approval to buy a 75 percent interest in Austrian airline, Laudamotion, in which it already owns 24.9 percent.   
Ashmore Group rallied 3.4 percent. The specialist Emerging Markets asset manager reported a drop in assets 
under management despite net inflows in its fourth quarter.   Recruitment firm Hays jumped more than 5 percent 
after its Group net fees for the fourth quarter increased 14 percent on a headline basis and 15 percent on a like-for-
like basis against the prior year.      
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa and Ryanair in spat over planes leased to Laudamotion
Lufthansa and Ryanair in spat over planes leased to Laudamotion
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 13, 2018 Friday 9:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 353 words
Byline: Steffen Weyer in Frankfurt
Dateline: Frankfurt (dpa) - 
Body
Lufthansa on Friday recalled nine planes it has leased to Laudamotion, a day after Ryanair was given the go-ahead 
by European Union competition authorities to take over the Austrian budget carrier.
Justifying the step, Lufthansa, Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers, said Laudamotion had "repeatedly 
failed to make the agreed payments." The recall has yet to take effect.
The nine planes make up almost half the fleet of Laudamotion, the former Air Berlin subsidiary that used to be 
known as Niki.
Lufthansa, which had wanted to buy Niki from Air Berlin but withdrew from the bidding in December last year, said it 
could make good use of the planes in its own budget carrier, Eurowings.
Speaking to Austrian news agency APA, Laudamotion chief executive Andreas Gruber insisted it had paid all its 
bills related to the planes.
The payments for July had been met at the end of June, and all nine planes were in full use, Gruber said.
Dublin-based Ryanair accused Lufthansa of delaying payments of 1.5 million euros to Laudamotion, terming the 
cancellation of the leases as yet another attempt by Lufthansa "to destabilize and cause damage."
It also said Lufthansa had failed to make available all the planes promised. Lufthansa rejected this.
The European Commission gave the takeover the go-ahead without setting any conditions.
Ryanair, which operates throughout Europe, is to take a 75 per cent stake in the Austrian carrier, which flies 
primarily from Germany, Austria and Switzerland to holiday destinations in the Mediterranean and Canary Islands.
Lufthansa and Ryanair in spat over planes leased to Laudamotion
Austrian entrepreneur and former Formula One racer Niki Lauda originally founded the airline under the name Niki 
in 2003 and sold it to the Air Berlin group in 2011. Following Air Berlin's bankruptcy last year, he bought it back in 
January and re-established it as Laudamotion with the help of British travel company Thomas Cook.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary sees the investment as a way to expand business in the German-speaking 
market, which is dominated by Lufthansa.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Femke Colborne, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: July 14, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair 's Irish pilots announce two more strikes
Ryanair's Irish pilots announce two more strikes
Business World (Digest)
July 13, 2018 Friday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: WORLD
Length: 413 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Pilots in Ryanair's home country Ireland on Thursday announced two more one-day strikes, increasing pressure on 
Europe's largest low-cost carrier to improve conditions to stave off a wave of industrial action across Europe.
Around 100 of Ryanair's 350 Irish pilots held their first-ever strike on Thursday to demand a more transparent 
system of pay, promotions and transfers, aiming to limit what the FORSA/IALPA union says is excessive discretion 
management have over pilots' careers.
The airline, which says its pilots have some of the best conditions in the low-cost sector, said it canceled 30 flights 
from Ireland on Thursday, less than 2% of its 2,300 daily flights.
But it is facing a growing number of strike threats from pilot and cabin crew unions across Europe, including cabin 
crew strikes in Italy, Spain, Portugal and Belgium later in July.
Irish union FORSA/IALPA on Thursday said it planned to hold two more one-day strikes on July 20 and July 24.
Pilots and cabin crew across the airline's 86 bases began to organize after the cancellation of thousands of flights in 
late 2017 due to a shortage of standby pilots, which management said was due to a rostering mix-up.
In December, the airline gave in to growing pressure and recognized trade unions for the first time in its 32-year 
history.
But management have struggled to reach agreement with unions on new terms and conditions and the airline has 
been hit by industrial action in Germany and Portugal. It says some staff demands would undermine its low-cost 
business model.
Ryanair 's Irish pilots announce two more strikes
A Ryanair spokesman said the airline was encouraging the Irish pilot union to accept an offer to form a working 
group to resolve the dispute, "but if they wish to hold another unsuccessful strike again, then so be it."
The union said in a statement that it had found some common ground with Ryanair on the proposal, but had been 
unable to reach agreement on the terms of reference. It said it was regrettable that Ryanair was refusing to allow 
the involvement of a third-party mediation in the dispute.
Cabin crew in four countries have announced plans to strike in July and several other pilot unions are considering 
industrial action to demand improved conditions, including contracts under local rather than Irish law.
Ryanair, which flies in 37 countries and carried 130 million passengers last year, is Europe's largest airline by 
passenger numbers, according to the International Air Transport Association. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 15, 2018
End of Document
European Markets Clung To Small Gains After Early Strength Recedes
European Markets Clung To Small Gains After Early Strength Recedes
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 13, 2018 Friday 6:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 662 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - The European markets got off to a positive start Friday, but 
pared their early gains over the course of the morning. The markets settled into a sideways patter in the afternoon 
and ended the session with small increases. Traders have been keeping a close eye on the UK as they host a visit 
from U.S. President Trump  The British pound weakened Friday, after Trump remarked that Prime Minister Theresa 
May's current 'soft-Brexit' proposal with the EU would probably 'kill' any future trade deals with the United States.  In 
an interview with The Sun, Trump said that PM's 'soft Brexit' strategy would 'affect trade with the United States, 
unfortunately in a negative way.' 
 'If they do a deal like that, we would be dealing with the European Union instead of dealing with the U.K., so it will 
probably kill the deal,' Trump told the paper.  The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index advanced 0.17 percent. 
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks increased 0.26 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, added 0.21 percent.  The DAX of Germany climbed 0.38 percent and 
the CAC of France rose 0.43 percent. The FTSE 100 of the U.K. gained 0.14 percent and the SMI of Switzerland 
finished higher by 0.49 percent.  In London, Ryanair Holdings rose 0.38 percent after it received EU approval to buy 
a 75 percent interest in Austrian airline, Laudamotion, in which it already owns 24.9 percent.  Ashmore Group rallied 
0.86 percent. The specialist Emerging Markets asset manager reported a drop in assets under management 
despite net inflows in its fourth quarter.  Recruitment firm Hays jumped 8.58 percent after its Group net fees for the 
fourth quarter increased 14 percent on a headline basis and 15 percent on a like-for-like basis against the prior 
year.  China's exports increased more-than-expected in June and its trade surplus with the U.S. reached a record 
high in the midst of escalating trade disputes between the two countries.  Data from the General Administration of 
Customs showed that exports increased 11.3 percent year-on-year in June, bigger than the expected 9.5 percent, 
but slower than the 12.6 percent rise seen in May.   At the same time, annual growth in imports slowed to 14.1 
percent. Economists had forecast a sharp growth of 21.3 percent after May's 26 percent increase.   Consequently, 
the overall trade surplus surged to $41.61 billion in June from about $24.9 billion in May. The surplus with the U.S. 
came in at record $28.97 billion, Reuters and Bloomberg reported, citing their own calculations.  Germany's 
wholesale price inflation accelerated further in June to the highest level in nine months, data from Destatis showed 
Friday. Wholesale prices climbed 3.4 percent year-on-year in June, faster than the 2.9 percent increase seen in 
European Markets Clung To Small Gains After Early Strength Recedes
May.  A report released by the Labor Department on Friday showed an unexpected decrease in U.S. import prices 
in the month of June, although the report also showed a slightly bigger than expected increase in export prices 
during the month.  The Labor Department said import prices fell by 0.4 percent in June after climbing by an 
upwardly revised 0.9 percent in May.  The pullback surprised economists, who had expected import prices to inch 
up by 0.1 percent compared to the 0.6 percent increase originally reported for the previous month.  Meanwhile, the 
Labor Department also said export prices rose by 0.3 percent in June following a 0.6 percent increase in May. 
Economists had expected export prices to edge up by 0.2 percent.  Reflecting concerns about the potential impact 
of tariffs, the University of Michigan released a report on Friday showing an unexpected deterioration in U.S. 
consumer sentiment in the month of July.  The preliminary report said the consumer sentiment index dipped to 97.1 
in July from the final June reading of 98.2. Economists had expected the index to come in unchanged.      
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa and Ryanair in spat over planes leased to Laudamotion
Lufthansa and Ryanair in spat over planes leased to Laudamotion
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 13, 2018 Friday 9:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 236 words
Byline: Steffen Weyer in Frankfurt
Dateline: Frankfurt (dpa) - 
Body
Lufthansa on Friday recalled nine planes it has leased to Laudamotion, a day after Ryanair was given the go-ahead 
by European Union competition authorities to take over the Austrian budget carrier.
Justifying the step, Lufthansa, Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers, said Laudamotion had "repeatedly 
failed to make the agreed payments." The recall has yet to take effect.
The nine planes make up almost half the fleet of Laudamotion, the former Air Berlin subsidiary that used to be 
known as Niki.
Lufthansa, which had wanted to buy Niki from Air Berlin but withdrew from the bidding in December last year, said it 
could make good use of the planes in its own budget carrier, Eurowings.
Speaking to Austrian news agency APA, Laudamotion chief executive Andreas Gruber insisted it had paid all its 
bills related to the planes.
The payments for July had been met at the end of June, and all nine planes were in full use, Gruber said.
Dublin-based Ryanair accused Lufthansa of delaying payments of 1.5 million euros to Laudamotion, terming the 
cancellation of the leases as yet another attempt by Lufthansa "to destabilize and cause damage."
It also said Lufthansa had failed to make available all the planes promised. Lufthansa rejected this.
The European Commission gave the takeover the go-ahead without setting any conditions.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Femke Colborne, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Lufthansa and Ryanair in spat over planes leased to Laudamotion
Load-Date: July 14, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa and Ryanair in spat over planes leased to Laudamotion
Lufthansa and Ryanair in spat over planes leased to Laudamotion
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 13, 2018 Friday 9:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 232 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Lufthansa on Friday recalled nine planes it has leased to Laudamotion, a day after 
Ryanair was given the go-ahead by European Union competition authorities to take over the Austrian budget 
carrier.  Justifying the step, Lufthansa, Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers, said Laudamotion had 
'repeatedly failed to make the agreed payments.' The recall has yet to take effect.  The nine planes make up almost 
half the fleet of Laudamotion, the former Air Berlin subsidiary that used to be known as Niki.  Lufthansa, which had 
wanted to buy Niki from Air Berlin but withdrew from the bidding in December last year, said it could make good use 
of the planes in its own budget carrier, Eurowings.  Speaking to Austrian news agency APA, Laudamotion chief 
executive Andreas Gruber insisted it had paid all its bills related to the planes.  The payments for July had been met 
at the end of June, and all nine planes were in full use, Gruber said.  Dublin-based Ryanair accused Lufthansa of 
delaying payments of 1.5 million euros to Laudamotion, terming the cancellation of the leases as yet another 
attempt by Lufthansa 'to destabilize and cause damage.'  It also said Lufthansa had failed to make available all the 
planes promised. Lufthansa rejected this.  The European Commission gave the takeover the go-ahead without 
setting any conditions.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa and Ryanair in spat over planes leased to Laudamotion
Lufthansa and Ryanair in spat over planes leased to Laudamotion
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 13, 2018 Friday 9:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 354 words
Body
       By Steffen Weyer, dpa   FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Lufthansa on Friday recalled nine planes it has leased to 
Laudamotion, a day after Ryanair was given the go-ahead by European Union competition authorities to take over 
the Austrian budget carrier.  Justifying the step, Lufthansa, Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers, said 
Laudamotion had 'repeatedly failed to make the agreed payments.' The recall has yet to take effect. 
 The nine planes make up almost half the fleet of Laudamotion, the former Air Berlin subsidiary that used to be 
known as Niki.  Lufthansa, which had wanted to buy Niki from Air Berlin but withdrew from the bidding in December 
last year, said it could make good use of the planes in its own budget carrier, Eurowings.  Speaking to Austrian 
news agency APA, Laudamotion chief executive Andreas Gruber insisted it had paid all its bills related to the 
planes.  The payments for July had been met at the end of June, and all nine planes were in full use, Gruber said.  
Dublin-based Ryanair accused Lufthansa of delaying payments of 1.5 million euros to Laudamotion, terming the 
cancellation of the leases as yet another attempt by Lufthansa 'to destabilize and cause damage.'  It also said 
Lufthansa had failed to make available all the planes promised. Lufthansa rejected this.  The European Commission 
gave the takeover the go-ahead without setting any conditions.  Ryanair, which operates throughout Europe, is to 
take a 75 per cent stake in the Austrian carrier, which flies primarily from Germany, Austria and Switzerland to 
holiday destinations in the Mediterranean and Canary Islands.  Austrian entrepreneur and former Formula One 
racer Niki Lauda originally founded the airline under the name Niki in 2003 and sold it to the Air Berlin group in 
2011. Following Air Berlin's bankruptcy last year, he bought it back in January and re-established it as Laudamotion 
with the help of British travel company Thomas Cook.  Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary sees the investment 
as a way to expand business in the German-speaking market, which is dominated by Lufthansa.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair cleared to take control of Laudamotion Ryanair has been given the green light to take a controlling 
stake in Austrian carrier Laudamotion .
Ryanair cleared to take control of Laudamotion; Ryanair has been given the 
green light to take a controlling stake in Austrian carrier Laudamotion.
Flight International
July 13, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 242 words
Body
Ryanair has been given the green light to take a controlling stake in Austrian carrier Laudamotion.
The European Commission says the transaction would raise no competition concerns within the European 
Economic Area.
Ryanair already holds a 25% stake in Laudamtion and has agreed with the Austrian airline's owner Niki Lauda to 
increase this to 75% for 50 million ($62 million).
The Commission says it investigated the impact of the proposed transaction on the market for air transport of 
passengers on routes from German, Austrian and Swiss airports to leisure destinations in the Mediterranean and 
Canary Islands, where the networks of Ryanair and Laudamotion overlap.
It also examined whether Laudamotion slots to be acquired by Ryanair at different European airports would allow 
the budget carrier to prevent competitors from entering or expanding their presence at those gateways.
The Commission's investigation found that the increase in the slot portfolio held by Ryanair would be "unlikely" to 
have a negative effect on passengers, and that the airline will "continue to face strong competition" on the routes to 
and from airports where its activities overlap with Laudamotion's.
Ryanair chief legal and regulatory officer Juliusz Komorek has welcomed the Commission’s approval, stating that 
the airline "remains committed to bringing competition, choice and low fares to the Austrian, German and Spanish 
markets through our investment in Laudamotion".
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
Ryanair cleared to take control of Laudamotion Ryanair has been given the green light to take a controlling 
stake in Austrian carrier Laudamotion .
End of Document
Norwegian calls end to rapid growth phase Airlines
Norwegian calls end to rapid growth phase; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 13, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 16
Length: 516 words
Byline: RICHARD MILNE
Body
Norwegian Air Shuttle said its days of rapid expansion were coming to an end as the low-cost airline admitted that 
its big push into transatlantic travel had made it vulnerable to a takeover.
Europe's third-largest low-cost airline has been circled by buyers ever since the owner of British Airways 
announced in April that it had taken a 4.6 per cent stake and was interested in a full takeover.
Norwegian's capacity increased by almost a half in the second quarter compared with a year earlier, an exceptional 
pace for the airline industry.
But executives and directors said that this quarter marked the peak as it now had more than 60 intercontinental 
routes, and the growth would be more modest in future.
"You will not see us taking in so many aeroplanes, we will come down to a moderate growth phase. Our focus will 
be on cost reduction," said Bjorn Kjos, chief executive, yesterday.
Lufthansa became the latest airline publicly to declare it was looking at Norwegian, but Ryanair - long-rumoured by 
analysts to be a prime purchaser for the dominant low-cost transatlantic carrier - has denied an interest.
Bjorn Kise, Norwegian's chairman who together with Mr Kjos owns 27 per cent of the airline, said: "When you are 
going through a phase of big expansion, it makes the company - with all its costs, its investments - vulnerable."
Norwegian calls end to rapid growth phase Airlines
Their comments came as Norwegian's shares rose by 7 per cent to NKr255.60, giving it a market capitalisation of 
NKr11.6bn ($1.4bn), due to an unexpected swing from a net loss a year ago to a profit of NKr300m.
Results were flattered by currency gains of NKr448m. Revenues increased by 32 per cent to NKr10.2bn while its 
unit costs decreased by 9 per cent despite a rise in fuel prices.
The Oslo-based airline's shares have risen by more than 40 per cent since International Airlines Group, which also 
owns Iberia and Aer Lingus, revealed its stake.
But its shares are down 18 per cent in the past three months as some investors think a bid may not come as 
nobody appears to want to launch a hostile offer.
Mr Kise said: "There has been interest from a lot of parties in the industry. We are very pleased. It shows us that 
what we are doing is correct and right. But there was no initiative from the board or shareholders to sell the 
company."
Both Messrs Kjos and Kise insisted that they were not beautifying Norwegian for a sale. They also argued that 
recent announcements to sell off some of its aircraft and a possible divestment of its frequent flyer programme were 
part of its "long-term strategy" and not designed to shore up Norwegian's balance sheet.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's outspoken chief executive, has frequently forecast that Norwegian would go bankrupt 
and other airline executives have said that its financial troubles - it raised NKr1bn in a share placement earlier this 
year - made it more attractive.
Its suitors are also interested in its long-haul business and landing slots at London Gatwick from where it flies not 
just to the US but also Argentina and Asia.
'You will not see us taking in so many aeroplanes ... our focus will be on cost reduction'
Graphic
 
Norwegian Air Shuttle now has more than 60 intercontinental routes, and suitors have been interested in its long-
haul business and landing slots- Jon Nazca/Reuters
Load-Date: July 12, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian calls end to rapid growth phase Airlines
Norwegian calls end to rapid growth phase; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 13, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 18
Length: 516 words
Byline: RICHARD MILNE
Body
Norwegian Air Shuttle said its days of rapid expansion were coming to an end as the low-cost airline admitted that 
its big push into transatlantic travel had made it vulnerable to a takeover.
Europe's third-largest low-cost airline has been circled by buyers ever since the owner of British Airways 
announced in April that it had taken a 4.6 per cent stake and was interested in a full takeover.
Norwegian's capacity increased by almost a half in the second quarter compared with a year earlier, an exceptional 
pace for the airline industry.
But executives and directors said that this quarter marked the peak as it now had more than 60 intercontinental 
routes, and the growth would be more modest in future.
"You will not see us taking in so many aeroplanes, we will come down to a moderate growth phase. Our focus will 
be on cost reduction," said Bjorn Kjos, chief executive, yesterday.
Lufthansa became the latest airline publicly to declare it was looking at Norwegian, but Ryanair - long-rumoured by 
analysts to be a prime purchaser for the dominant low-cost transatlantic carrier - has denied an interest.
Bjorn Kise, Norwegian's chairman who together with Mr Kjos owns 27 per cent of the airline, said: "When you are 
going through a phase of big expansion, it makes the company - with all its costs, its investments - vulnerable."
Norwegian calls end to rapid growth phase Airlines
Their comments came as Norwegian's shares rose by 7 per cent to NKr255.60, giving it a market capitalisation of 
NKr11.6bn ($1.4bn), due to an unexpected swing from a net loss a year ago to a profit of NKr300m.
Results were flattered by currency gains of NKr448m. Revenues increased by 32 per cent to NKr10.2bn while its 
unit costs decreased by 9 per cent despite a rise in fuel prices.
The Oslo-based airline's shares have risen by more than 40 per cent since International Airlines Group, which also 
owns Iberia and Aer Lingus, revealed its stake.
But its shares are down 18 per cent in the past three months as some investors think a bid may not come as 
nobody appears to want to launch a hostile offer.
Mr Kise said: "There has been interest from a lot of parties in the industry. We are very pleased. It shows us that 
what we are doing is correct and right. But there was no initiative from the board or shareholders to sell the 
company."
Both Messrs Kjos and Kise insisted that they were not beautifying Norwegian for a sale. They also argued that 
recent announcements to sell off some of its aircraft and a possible divestment of its frequent flyer programme were 
part of its "long-term strategy" and not designed to shore up Norwegian's balance sheet.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's outspoken chief executive, has frequently forecast that Norwegian would go bankrupt 
and other airline executives have said that its financial troubles - it raised NKr1bn in a share placement earlier this 
year - made it more attractive.
Its suitors are also interested in its long-haul business and landing slots at London Gatwick from where it flies not 
just to the US but also Argentina and Asia.
'You will not see us taking in so many aeroplanes ... our focus will be on cost reduction'
Graphic
 
Norwegian Air Shuttle now has more than 60 intercontinental routes, and suitors have been interested in its long-
haul business and landing slots- Jon Nazca/Reuters
Load-Date: July 12, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian calls end to rapid growth phase Airlines
Norwegian calls end to rapid growth phase; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 13, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 16
Length: 516 words
Byline: RICHARD MILNE
Body
Norwegian Air Shuttle said its days of rapid expansion were coming to an end as the low-cost airline admitted that 
its big push into transatlantic travel had made it vulnerable to a takeover.
Europe's third-largest low-cost airline has been circled by buyers ever since the owner of British Airways 
announced in April that it had taken a 4.6 per cent stake and was interested in a full takeover.
Norwegian's capacity increased by almost a half in the second quarter compared with a year earlier, an exceptional 
pace for the airline industry.
But executives and directors said that this quarter marked the peak as it now had more than 60 intercontinental 
routes, and the growth would be more modest in future.
"You will not see us taking in so many aeroplanes, we will come down to a moderate growth phase. Our focus will 
be on cost reduction," said Bjorn Kjos, chief executive, yesterday.
Lufthansa became the latest airline publicly to declare it was looking at Norwegian, but Ryanair - long-rumoured by 
analysts to be a prime purchaser for the dominant low-cost transatlantic carrier - has denied an interest.
Bjorn Kise, Norwegian's chairman who together with Mr Kjos owns 27 per cent of the airline, said: "When you are 
going through a phase of big expansion, it makes the company - with all its costs, its investments - vulnerable."
Norwegian calls end to rapid growth phase Airlines
Their comments came as Norwegian's shares rose by 7 per cent to NKr255.60, giving it a market capitalisation of 
NKr11.6bn ($1.4bn), due to an unexpected swing from a net loss a year ago to a profit of NKr300m.
Results were flattered by currency gains of NKr448m. Revenues increased by 32 per cent to NKr10.2bn while its 
unit costs decreased by 9 per cent despite a rise in fuel prices.
The Oslo-based airline's shares have risen by more than 40 per cent since International Airlines Group, which also 
owns Iberia and Aer Lingus, revealed its stake.
But its shares are down 18 per cent in the past three months as some investors think a bid may not come as 
nobody appears to want to launch a hostile offer.
Mr Kise said: "There has been interest from a lot of parties in the industry. We are very pleased. It shows us that 
what we are doing is correct and right. But there was no initiative from the board or shareholders to sell the 
company."
Both Messrs Kjos and Kise insisted that they were not beautifying Norwegian for a sale. They also argued that 
recent announcements to sell off some of its aircraft and a possible divestment of its frequent flyer programme were 
part of its "long-term strategy" and not designed to shore up Norwegian's balance sheet.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's outspoken chief executive, has frequently forecast that Norwegian would go bankrupt 
and other airline executives have said that its financial troubles - it raised NKr1bn in a share placement earlier this 
year - made it more attractive.
Its suitors are also interested in its long-haul business and landing slots at London Gatwick from where it flies not 
just to the US but also Argentina and Asia.
'You will not see us taking in so many aeroplanes ... our focus will be on cost reduction'
Graphic
 
Norwegian Air Shuttle now has more than 60 intercontinental routes, and suitors have been interested in its long-
haul business and landing slots- Jon Nazca/Reuters
Load-Date: July 12, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian calls end to rapid growth phase Airlines
Norwegian calls end to rapid growth phase; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 13, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 16
Length: 516 words
Byline: RICHARD MILNE
Body
Norwegian Air Shuttle said its days of rapid expansion were coming to an end as the low-cost airline admitted that 
its big push into transatlantic travel had made it vulnerable to a takeover.
Europe's third-largest low-cost airline has been circled by buyers ever since the owner of British Airways 
announced in April that it had taken a 4.6 per cent stake and was interested in a full takeover.
Norwegian's capacity increased by almost a half in the second quarter compared with a year earlier, an exceptional 
pace for the airline industry.
But executives and directors said that this quarter marked the peak as it now had more than 60 intercontinental 
routes, and the growth would be more modest in future.
"You will not see us taking in so many aeroplanes, we will come down to a moderate growth phase. Our focus will 
be on cost reduction," said Bjorn Kjos, chief executive, yesterday.
Lufthansa became the latest airline publicly to declare it was looking at Norwegian, but Ryanair - long-rumoured by 
analysts to be a prime purchaser for the dominant low-cost transatlantic carrier - has denied an interest.
Bjorn Kise, Norwegian's chairman who together with Mr Kjos owns 27 per cent of the airline, said: "When you are 
going through a phase of big expansion, it makes the company - with all its costs, its investments - vulnerable."
Norwegian calls end to rapid growth phase Airlines
Their comments came as Norwegian's shares rose by 7 per cent to NKr255.60, giving it a market capitalisation of 
NKr11.6bn ($1.4bn), due to an unexpected swing from a net loss a year ago to a profit of NKr300m.
Results were flattered by currency gains of NKr448m. Revenues increased by 32 per cent to NKr10.2bn while its 
unit costs decreased by 9 per cent despite a rise in fuel prices.
The Oslo-based airline's shares have risen by more than 40 per cent since International Airlines Group, which also 
owns Iberia and Aer Lingus, revealed its stake.
But its shares are down 18 per cent in the past three months as some investors think a bid may not come as 
nobody appears to want to launch a hostile offer.
Mr Kise said: "There has been interest from a lot of parties in the industry. We are very pleased. It shows us that 
what we are doing is correct and right. But there was no initiative from the board or shareholders to sell the 
company."
Both Messrs Kjos and Kise insisted that they were not beautifying Norwegian for a sale. They also argued that 
recent announcements to sell off some of its aircraft and a possible divestment of its frequent flyer programme were 
part of its "long-term strategy" and not designed to shore up Norwegian's balance sheet.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's outspoken chief executive, has frequently forecast that Norwegian would go bankrupt 
and other airline executives have said that its financial troubles - it raised NKr1bn in a share placement earlier this 
year - made it more attractive.
Its suitors are also interested in its long-haul business and landing slots at London Gatwick from where it flies not 
just to the US but also Argentina and Asia.
'You will not see us taking in so many aeroplanes ... our focus will be on cost reduction'
Graphic
 
Norwegian Air Shuttle now has more than 60 intercontinental routes, and suitors have been interested in its long-
haul business and landing slots- Jon Nazca/Reuters
Load-Date: July 12, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair 's Irish Pilot Union to Stage Two More Single-Day Strikes
Ryanair's Irish Pilot Union to Stage Two More Single-Day Strikes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 13, 2018 Friday 6:08 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 66 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings' (RYAAY) Irish pilots are planning to stage two more one-day strikes on July 20 and July 24, a 
spokesperson for the IALPA/FORSA union told Reuters.
The low-cost airliner cancelled 30 of the 2,300 flights scheduled on Thursday as around 100 pilots went on strike 
after negotiations collapsed between management and the pilot union.
Price: 115.52, Change: +3.53, Percent Change: +3.15
Load-Date: July 14, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Getting Somewhat Positive Media Coverage, Analysis Shows
Ryanair (RYAAY) Getting Somewhat Positive Media Coverage, Analysis 
Shows
Transcript Daily
July 13, 2018 Friday 8:26 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 682 words
Body
Jul 13, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  News stories about Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) have trended somewhat positive this week, Accern Sentiment Analysis reports. The research 
firm ranks the sentiment of news coverage by analyzing more than twenty million blog and news sources in real 
time. Accern ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of negative one to positive one, with scores 
nearest to one being the most favorable. 
Ryanair earned a daily sentiment score of 0.04 on Accern's scale. Accern also assigned news stories about the 
transportation company an impact score of 45.7085384063896 out of 100, indicating that recent news coverage is 
somewhat unlikely to have an effect on the stock's share price in the next several days. These are some of the 
media headlines that may have effected Accern Sentiment Analysis's scoring: Ryanair cleared for Laudamotion 
investment[1] (seekingalpha.com)Ryanair's Irish pilots announce two more strikes[2] (finance.yahoo.com)Ryanair 
Scraps Flights as Irish Pilot Strike Tests Resolve[3] (finance.yahoo.com)Ryanair pilots in Ireland start first strike[4] 
(finance.yahoo.com)Ryanair's pilots union in Ireland says more industrial action possible[5] (finance.yahoo.com) A 
number of research firms have recently issued reports on RYAAY. BidaskClub raised shares of Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Monday, June 25th. Deutsche Bank reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, May 22nd. Exane BNP Paribas downgraded shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas downgraded shares of 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, ValuEngine[6] 
downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Wednesday, May 9th. Three 
analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have given a hold rating and three have issued a buy rating to 
the company. The stock currently has an average rating of "Hold" and a consensus target price of $138.00.Ryanair 
opened at $115.52 on Friday, Marketbeat[7] reports. Ryanair has a 12-month low of $101.10 and a 12-month high 
of $127.61. The stock has a market capitalization of $26.38 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.39 and a beta of 
0.67. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a current ratio of 1.23. Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, beating analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. 
Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion for the 
quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. equities analysts predict that Ryanair will post 6.72 
EPS for the current year. About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-
passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers 
various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets 
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Getting Somewhat Positive Media Coverage, Analysis Shows
accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food, and merchandise. [ 1]: https://seekingalpha.com/news/3369762-ryanair-cleared-laudamotion-
investment 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ryanairs-irish-pilots-announce-two-
201028188.html?.tsrc=rss [ 3]:            https://finance.yahoo.com/m/d96c00d2-f526-35f5-b06f-
71478716b97c/ryanair-scraps-flights-as.html?.tsrc=rss [ 4]:            https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ryanair-pilots-
ireland-start-first-075319109.html?.tsrc=rss [ 5]:            https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ryanairs-pilots-union-
ireland-says-080855021.html?.tsrc=rss 
[ 
6]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
7]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Thursday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Thursday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 12, 2018 Thursday 11:23 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 230 words
Body
 American Depositary Receipts of European stocks were trading 0.93% higher at 138.08 on the Bank of New York 
Mellon Europe ADR Index on Thursday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by biotech firm Zealand Pharma (ZEAL), and pharmaceutical company 
Oasmia Pharmaceutical (OASM), which climbed 7.7% and 2.2% respectively. They were followed by 
pharmaceutical company Ascendis Pharma (ASND), and online booking site Trivago (TRVG), which were up 3.4% 
and 3.5%
The decliners in continental Europe were led by Italian furniture maker Natuzzi (NTZ), and telecommunications 
provider Telecom Italia (TI), which dropped 5% and 2.5% respectively. They were followed by communications 
services provider VEON (VEON), and biopharmaceutical firm DBV Technologies (DBVT), which were down 1% and 
0.8%.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca (AZN), and biopharmaceutical 
company Amarin (AMRN), which rose 3.1% and 2.8% respectively. They were followed by airline operator Ryanair 
(RYAAY), and communications company WPP (WPP), which climbed 2.6% and 2.0%.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by biopharmaceutical company Midatech Pharma (MTP), which fell 
6.4%, followed by telecommunications provider BT Group (BT), and airplane lessor  Fly Leasing (FLY) which 
dropped 1.4% and 0.9% respectively. 
Price: 14.37, Change: +0.99, Percent Change: +7.40
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
European ADRs Move Higher in Thursday Trading
End of Document
Ryanair pilots in Ireland start first strike
Ryanair pilots in Ireland start first strike
Business World (Digest)
July 12, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 257 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Pilots in Ryanair's home country Ireland held a strike for the first time on Thursday as they demanded better 
conditions from Europe's largest low-cost carrier, which is trying to stave off a wave of industrial action across 
Europe.
Around 100 of Ryanair's 350 Irish pilots balloted to strike for 24 hours to demand a more transparent system of pay, 
promotions and transfers, aiming to limit what the FORSA/IALPA union says is excessive discretion management 
have over pilots' careers. A union representative said more strikes were possible.
Pilots and cabin crew at Ryanair began to organize after a wave of cancellations at the airline in the second half 
2017. In December, the airline gave in to growing pressure and recognized trade unions for the first time in its 32-
year history.
But management have struggled to reach agreement with unions on new terms and conditions and the airline has 
been hit by industrial action in Germany and Portugal.
Cabin crew in four countries have announced plans to strike in July and several other pilot unions are considering 
industrial action to demand improved conditions, including contracts under local rather than Irish law.
The airline, which says its pilots have some of the best conditions in the low-cost sector, said it planned to cancel 
30 of 290 flights from Ireland on Thursday.
Around two dozen Ryanair pilots picketed close to Dublin airport. The airline offered to pay for taxis or public 
parking for pilots working on Thursday so they could avoid the picket. (Reuters)
Ryanair pilots in Ireland start first strike
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 15, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair -Pilots Talks Collapse; Flights Cancelled As Airline Braces for Strike
Ryanair-Pilots Talks Collapse; Flights Cancelled As Airline Braces for Strike
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 12, 2018 Thursday 5:07 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 164 words
Body
 Low-cost airliner Ryanair (RYAAY) said that it has cancelled 30 flights on Thursday after discussions between 
management and pilots broke down.
The action would mostly affect scheduled flights between Ireland and the UK as the Irish carrier faces its second 
strike since recognizing unions for the first time in December.
"Thanks to efforts of the majority of Irish pilots, Ryanair expects limited disruptions tomorrow other than 30 Ireland-
UK flights already cancelled yesterday (whose customers have been re-accommodated)," the airline said. About 
27% of Irish pilots will go on strike, Ryanair said.
"Ryanair offered its pilots and Forsa to set up a working group to explain and negotiate any issues arising from 
Ryanair's written proposals on recognition, seniority, base transfers and new annual leave system, but regrettably 
agreement on this sensible course of action wasn't possible after seven hours of talks," the company added.
Price: 111.99, Change: -0.65, Percent Change: -0.58
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
End of Document
Market Chatter: Ryanair Holdings ' Acquisition of LaudaMotion Gets European Commission Approval; Shares 
Advance
Market Chatter: Ryanair Holdings' Acquisition of LaudaMotion Gets 
European Commission Approval; Shares Advance
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 12, 2018 Thursday 2:53 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 107 words
Body
 The European Commission unconditionally approved the purchase of Laudamotion by Ryanair (RYAAY), Europe's 
biggest budget airline, as the transaction would raise "no competition concerns" in the European Economic Area, 
according to a report from Reuters Thursday.
Shares of Ryanair jumped more than 3% intraday.
Laudamotion, formerly Amira Air, is an Austrian airline based near Vienna.
(Market Chatter news is derived from conversations with market professionals globally. This information is believed 
to be from reliable sources but may include rumor and speculation. Accuracy is not guaranteed.)
Price: 115.90, Change: +3.91, Percent Change: +3.49
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
End of Document
EU gives green light to Ryanair takeover of Austria 's Laudamotion
EU gives green light to Ryanair takeover of Austria's Laudamotion
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 12, 2018 Thursday 8:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 194 words
Body
       BRUSSELS (dpa-AFX) - European Union competition authorities have given the go-ahead for Dublin-based 
Ryanair to take over Austrian budget carrier Laudamotion, the European Commission announced on Thursday.  
The authorization was issued without any conditions, as there were no grounds for reservations on competition 
grounds, the commission said.  Ryanair, which operates throughout Europe, is to take a 75 per cent stake in the 
Austrian carrier, which flies primarily from Germany, Austria and Switzerland to holiday destinations in the 
Mediterranean and Canaries.  Austrian entrepreneur and former Formula One racer Niki Lauda originally founded 
the airline under the name Niki in 2003 and sold it to the Air Berlin group in 2011. Following Air Berlin's bankruptcy 
last year, he bought it back in January and re-established it as Laudamotion with the help of British travel company 
Thomas Cook.  Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary sees the investment as a way to expand business in the 
German-speaking market, which is dominated by Lufthansa.   Lufthansa earlier wanted to buy Niki from Air Berlin 
but withdrew in December last year.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: July 12, 2018
End of Document
EU gives green light to Ryanair takeover of Austria 's Laudamotion
EU gives green light to Ryanair takeover of Austria's Laudamotion
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 12, 2018 Thursday 8:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 200 words
Byline: Alkimos Sartoros in Brussels
Dateline: Brussels (dpa) - 
Body
European Union competition authorities have given the go-ahead for Dublin-based Ryanair to take over Austrian 
budget carrier Laudamotion, the European Commission announced on Thursday.
The authorization was issued without any conditions, as there were no grounds for reservations on competition 
grounds, the commission said.
Ryanair, which operates throughout Europe, is to take a 75 per cent stake in the Austrian carrier, which flies 
primarily from Germany, Austria and Switzerland to holiday destinations in the Mediterranean and Canaries.
Austrian entrepreneur and former Formula One racer Niki Lauda originally founded the airline under the name Niki 
in 2003 and sold it to the Air Berlin group in 2011. Following Air Berlin's bankruptcy last year, he bought it back in 
January and re-established it as Laudamotion with the help of British travel company Thomas Cook.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary sees the investment as a way to expand business in the German-speaking 
market, which is dominated by Lufthansa.
Lufthansa earlier wanted to buy Niki from Air Berlin but withdrew in December last year.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Miranda Lee Murray, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
EU gives green light to Ryanair takeover of Austria 's Laudamotion
End of Document
Head to Head Review: Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Ryanair (RYAAY)
Head to Head Review: Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Ryanair (RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
July 11, 2018 Wednesday 3:36 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 552 words
Body
Jul 11, 2018( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Intl Cons Airl/S (OTCMKTS: 
ICAGY) and Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) are both transportation companies, but which is the superior investment? 
We will contrast the two companies based on the strength of their profitability, institutional ownership, risk, 
dividends, analyst recommendations, earnings and valuation. 
Analyst RecommendationsThis is a breakdown of current ratings and target prices for Intl Cons Airl/S and Ryanair, 
as provided by MarketBeat.com. ProfitabilityThis table compares Intl Cons Airl/S and Ryanair's net margins, return 
on equity and return on assets. DividendsIntl Cons Airl/S pays an annual dividend of $0.52 per share and has a 
dividend yield of 2.9%. Ryanair does not pay a dividend. Intl Cons Airl/S pays out 9.0% of its earnings in the form of 
a dividend. Earnings and Valuation This table compares Intl Cons Airl/S and Ryanair's gross revenue, earnings per 
share and valuation. Intl Cons Airl/S has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. Intl Cons Airl/S is trading at a 
lower price-to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. 
Volatility and Risk Intl Cons Airl/S has a beta of 1, indicating that its share price has a similar volatility profile to the 
S...00.Comparatively, Ryanair has a beta of 0.67, indicating that its share price is 33% less volatile than the S...00. 
Insider ...stitutional Ownership0.1% of Intl Cons Airl/S shares are owned by institutional investors. Comparatively, 
43.7% of Ryanair shares are owned by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that 
hedge funds, large money managers and endowments believe a company is poised for long-term 
growth.SummaryRyanair beats Intl Cons Airl/S on 8 of the 14 factors compared between the two stocks.About Intl 
Cons Airl/SInternational Consolidated Airlines Group, S.A., together with its subsidiaries, engages in the provision 
of passenger and cargo transportation services in the United Kingdom, Spain, Ireland, the United States, and rest of 
the world. The company operates under the British Airways, Iberia, Vueling, LEVEL, IAG Cargo, Avios, and Aer 
Lingus brands. As of February 12, 2018, it operated a fleet of 547 aircraft flying to 268 destinations. The company 
was incorporated in 2010 and is based in Madrid, Spain.About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with its 
subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, 
Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-
related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as 
engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In addition, the company sells bus and rail 
tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car parking, attractions, and activities, as well as 
gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and 
offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving approximately 200 airports primarily in 
Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, Ireland. 
Head to Head Review: Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Ryanair (RYAAY)
Load-Date: July 11, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair forced to cancel 10% of Irish July 12 flights
Ryanair forced to cancel 10% of Irish July 12 flights
Business World (Digest)
July 11, 2018 Wednesday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 122 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair said it would cancel up to 30 of its 290 Irish flights on Thursday as a result of a planned pilots' strike, 
limiting the disruption to high frequency British-Irish routes but warned further disruptions could not be ruled out.
Pilots directly employed by Ryanair and who are members of its Irish trade union voted to go on strike for the first 
time after the union said last week that the budget carrier had failed to meet demands over new working practices.
"These coordinated strike threats are designed to cause unnecessary disruption to customers and damage 
Ryanair's low fare model, for the benefit of high fare competitor airlines in Ireland and Germany," Ryanair said in a 
statement. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 15, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair warns of cancelled flights after pilots vote to strike
Ryanair warns of cancelled flights after pilots vote to strike
City A.M.
July 11, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 130 words
Byline: ALEXANDRA ROGERS
Body
RYANAIR is cancelling up to 30 of its flights for tomorrow after its pilots voted for strike action.
The budget airline said only some UK-bound flights from Ireland would have to be grounded, after 94 of about 350 
pilots voted for strike action. All Ireland to mainland Europe flights will operate as normal.
Ryanair said on its website: "We have tried to avert this disruption, which is unnecessary given Ryanair pilots' and 
their union Forsa has received written proposals on seniority, annual leave and base transfers, which are what 
Forsa claims are the reasons for this strike."
The airline said it would minimise disruption by cancelling a number of flights on high frequency routes from Ireland 
to London and other UK destinations, where customers can transfer onto other flights.
Graphic
 
Ryanair warned there could be further strike action during July and August
Load-Date: July 11, 2018
Ryanair warns of cancelled flights after pilots vote to strike
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Bought by UBS Group AG
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Bought by UBS Group AG
American Banking and Market News
July 10, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 664 words
Body
Ryanair logo UBS Group AG raised its holdings in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 40.1% 
during the first quarter, according to the company in its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities & Exchange 
Commission. The institutional investor  owned 35,105 shares of the transportation company's stock after buying an 
additional 10,041 shares during the period. UBS Group AG's holdings in Ryanair were worth $4,313,000 at the end 
of the most recent reporting period.  
Other hedge funds have also made changes to their positions in the company. Elkfork Partners LLC acquired a new 
position in  Ryanair during the fourth quarter valued at approximately $166,000.  Glenmede Trust Co. NA lifted its 
position in  Ryanair by 2,506.9% during the fourth quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $195,000 after buying an additional 1,805 shares in the last quarter.  
Private Advisor Group LLC acquired a new position in  Ryanair during the first quarter valued at approximately 
$248,000.  We Are One Seven LLC acquired a new position in  Ryanair during the fourth quarter valued at 
approximately $211,000.  Finally, Castleark Management LLC lifted its position in  Ryanair by 20.3% during the 
fourth quarter. Castleark Management LLC now owns 2,520 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$263,000 after buying an additional 425 shares in the last quarter. 43.70% of the stock is currently owned by hedge 
funds and other institutional investors.  
Shares of NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $113.53 on Tuesday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a 
current ratio of 1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23. The firm has a market capitalization of $26.69 billion, a P/E ratio of 
16.10 and a beta of 0.67. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $101.10 and a 12-month high of $127.61.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 
by $0.05. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 
billion. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%.  equities research analysts predict 
that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current year.  
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of analyst reports. BidaskClub upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Monday, June 25th. Deutsche Bank  reiterated a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. Exane BNP Paribas lowered shares of Ryanair from 
an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas lowered shares 
of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, 
ValuEngine  lowered shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Wednesday, May 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Bought by UBS Group AG
9th. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have assigned  a hold rating and three have issued  a 
buy rating to the company. The company  has an average rating of "Hold" and an average target price of $138.00. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: July 10, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Stake Lessened by Allianz Asset Management GmbH
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Stake Lessened by Allianz Asset Management 
GmbH
American Banking and Market News
July 10, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 607 words
Body
Ryanair logo Allianz Asset Management GmbH cut its holdings in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 0.3% during the first quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission. The institutional investor  owned 709,302 shares of the transportation 
company's stock after selling 2,013 shares during the period. Allianz Asset Management GmbH owned 0.30% of 
Ryanair worth $87,138,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
Several other hedge funds have also modified their holdings of RYAAY. Elkfork Partners LLC acquired a new 
position in shares of  Ryanair in the 4th quarter valued at $166,000.  Glenmede Trust Co. NA increased its position 
in shares of  Ryanair by 2,506.9% in the 4th quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $195,000 after acquiring an additional 1,805 shares during the period.  
We Are One Seven LLC acquired a new position in shares of  Ryanair in the 4th quarter valued at $211,000.  
Private Advisor Group LLC acquired a new position in shares of  Ryanair in the 1st quarter valued at $248,000.  
Finally, Perigon Wealth Management LLC acquired a new position in shares of  Ryanair in the 1st quarter valued at 
$254,000. 43.70% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Shares of RYAAY  opened at $113.53 on Tuesday. The stock has a market cap of $26.69 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of 16.10 and a beta of 0.67. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 1.23 and 
a current ratio of 1.23. Ryanair Holdings plc has a fifty-two week low of $101.10 and a fifty-two week high of 
$127.61.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, topping the consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The 
company had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion. Ryanair 
had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%.  analysts expect that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post 
7.08 EPS for the current year.  
Several equities analysts recently issued reports on RYAAY shares. Zacks Investment Research  raised Ryanair 
from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 target price on the stock in a research report on Thursday, 
March 29th. BidaskClub downgraded Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on 
Friday, June 1st.            ValuEngine  downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report 
on Wednesday, May 9th. Exane BNP Paribas downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating 
in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, Deutsche Bank  reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Stake Lessened by Allianz Asset Management GmbH
in a research report on Tuesday, May 22nd. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have 
assigned  a hold rating and three have given a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock  has a consensus 
rating of "Hold" and a consensus price target of $138.00. 
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: July 10, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair cabin crew to strike in late July
Ryanair cabin crew to strike in late July
Business World (Digest)
July 09, 2018 Monday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 542 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair cabin crew are set to strike in four countries in late July, including in two of its largest markets, threatening 
to disrupt Europe's biggest low-cost airline at the height of the holiday season.
The strike plans, aimed at achieving improved working conditions, deal another blow to the Irish airline's attempts to 
quell a staff revolt that began last year.
Cabin crew in Italy and Spain - Ryanair's second- and third-largest markets respectively - are set to join colleagues 
in Belgium and Portugal for a one-day strike on July 25, five trade unions said in a statement on Thursday. Crew in 
Spain, Portugal and Belgium will strike for a second day on July 26.
Pilots and cabin crew at Ryanair began to organize following a wave of cancellations at the airline in the second half 
of last year, and in December the airline gave in to growing pressure and recognized trade unions for the first time 
in its 32-year history.
But management have struggled to reach agreement with unions on new terms and conditions in recent months. 
Some Irish pilots are planning to strike on July 12 and some other pilot unions have said they will consider industrial 
action this summer.
"Further industrial actions may follow in the coming weeks if Ryanair continues with this deadlock," the five unions 
said in a statement.
At the top of the list of cabin crew demands is that all contracts at the airline, which flies in 37 countries, be subject 
to local law rather than Irish law.
Ryanair cabin crew to strike in late July
Some cabin crew have complained the current arrangements complicate their access to social security benefits. 
Others say they struggle to access credit as they are paid into Irish bank accounts but do not live in Ireland.
The unions are also demanding staff be free to appoint union representatives without restriction and that cabin crew 
receive the same terms and conditions irrespective of whether they are direct employees or hired via a third-party 
contractor.
The European Transport Worker's Federation has estimated around one-in-four of Ryanair's approximately 8,000 
cabin crew are directly employed. Ryanair says many staff prefer to be employed indirectly.
"They just want the company to comply with the law and to be treated with respect," Monique Duthiers, a 
representative of Spain's SITCPLA union, said in a press conference in Brussels to announce the strikes.
The strike action is being organized by Belgium's CNE/LBC union, Spain's SITCPLA and USO, Portugal's SNPVAC 
and Italy's Ultrasporti union. The unions do not represent all cabin crew in those countries, but they have said other 
crew are welcome to join the action.
Representatives of the union said they expected 4,000 cabin crew to participate, a number that would imply 
significant participation outside of the four countries directly affected.
Ryanair has said its employment conditions for staff are competitive and often superior to rivals.
On Wednesday, it described a series of demands by cabin crew unions as "pointless" due to the overall 
attractiveness of staff conditions.
Cabin crew, a spokesman said, could earn up to 40,000 euros per year and had attractive working hours.
The spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment after Thursday's announcement. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: August 15, 2018
End of Document
Reviewing Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Ryanair ( RYAAY )
Reviewing Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Ryanair (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
July 8, 2018 Sunday 2:41 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 552 words
Body
Jul 08, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Intl Cons Airl/S (OTCMKTS: 
ICAGY) and Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) are both transportation companies, but which is the superior business? 
We will contrast the two businesses based on the strength of their valuation, profitability, dividends, analyst 
recommendations, earnings, institutional ownership and risk. 
ProfitabilityThis table compares Intl Cons Airl/S and Ryanair's net margins, return on equity and return on assets. 
Institutional and Insider Ownership0.1% of Intl Cons Airl/S shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 
43.7% of Ryanair shares are held by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that large 
money managers, hedge funds and endowments believe a company will outperform the market over the long 
term.Earnings ...luation This table compares Intl Cons Airl/S and Ryanair's gross revenue, earnings per share and 
valuation. Intl Cons Airl/S has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. Intl Cons Airl/S is trading at a lower price-
to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. Risk and Volatility 
Intl Cons Airl/S has a beta of 1, suggesting that its stock price has a similar volatility profile to the 
S...00.Comparatively, Ryanair has a beta of 0.67, suggesting that its stock price is 33% less volatile than the S...00. 
DividendsIntl Cons Airl/S pays an annual dividend of $0.55 per share and has a dividend yield of 3.1%. Ryanair 
does not pay a dividend. Intl Cons Airl/S pays out 9.5% of its earnings in the form of a dividend. Analyst 
RecommendationsThis is a summary of current ratings and price targets for Intl Cons Airl/S and Ryanair, as 
provided by MarketBeat. SummaryRyanair beats Intl Cons Airl/S on 8 of the 14 factors compared between the two 
stocks.About Intl Cons Airl/SInternational Consolidated Airlines Group, S.A., together with its subsidiaries, engages 
in the provision of passenger and cargo transportation services in the United Kingdom, Spain, Ireland, the United 
States, and rest of the world. The company operates under the British Airways, Iberia, Vueling, LEVEL, IAG Cargo, 
Avios, and Aer Lingus brands. As of February 12, 2018, it operated a fleet of 547 aircraft flying to 268 destinations. 
The company was incorporated in 2010 and is based in Madrid, Spain.About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together 
with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental 
Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and 
Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as 
engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In addition, the company sells bus and rail 
tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car parking, attractions, and activities, as well as 
gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and 
offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving approximately 200 airports primarily in 
Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, Ireland. 
Reviewing Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Ryanair ( RYAAY )
Load-Date: July 8, 2018
End of Document
Legal & General Group Plc Purchases 2,100 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Legal & General Group Plc Purchases 2,100 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
July 7, 2018 Saturday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 752 words
Body
Ryanair logo Legal & General Group Plc boosted its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 2.9% 
during the 1st quarter, according to the company in its most recent Form 13F filing with the SEC. The institutional 
investor  owned 73,914 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 2,100 shares 
during the period. Legal & General Group Plc's holdings in Ryanair were worth $9,078,000 as of its most recent 
SEC filing.  
A number of other large investors have also recently made changes to their positions in the business. Castleark 
Management LLC boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 20.3% in the fourth quarter. Castleark Management LLC now 
owns 2,520 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $263,000 after acquiring an additional 425 shares 
in the last quarter.  Comerica Bank boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 3.4% in the first quarter. Comerica Bank now 
owns 15,202 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,756,000 after acquiring an additional 494 
shares in the last quarter.  Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 
35.5% in the fourth quarter. Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. now owns 2,754 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $287,000 after purchasing an additional 721 shares during the last quarter.  
W.G. Shaheen & Associates DBA Whitney & Co raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 2.5% in the first quarter. 
W.G. Shaheen & Associates DBA Whitney & Co now owns 30,884 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $3,794,000 after purchasing an additional 744 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Lester Murray Antman 
dba SimplyRich raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 10.7% in the first quarter. Lester Murray Antman dba 
SimplyRich now owns 8,601 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,057,000 after purchasing an 
additional 832 shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.70% of the company's 
stock.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $113.93 on Friday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 
1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $101.10 and a 1 year high of $127.61. The 
firm has a market capitalization of $26.56 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.16 and a beta of 0.67.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. 
Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion 
during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion.  equities research analysts predict that  
Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
Legal & General Group Plc Purchases 2,100 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
RYAAY has been the subject of several analyst reports. Zacks Investment Research  raised Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price objective for the company in a research note on Thursday, March 
29th. BidaskClub raised Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a research note on Saturday, March 
17th. Deutsche Bank downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Thursday, 
June 7th.            ValuEngine  downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on 
Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Exane BNP Paribas downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" 
rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Three research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six 
have assigned  a hold rating and three have assigned  a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair presently has 
an average rating of "Hold" and a consensus price target of $138.00. 
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: July 7, 2018
End of Document
Comparing Ryanair ( RYAAY ) & Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY)
Comparing Ryanair (RYAAY) & Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY)
American Banking and Market News
July 6, 2018 Friday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 610 words
Body
Ryanair (NASDAQ: RYAAY) and Intl Cons Airl/S (OTCMKTS:ICAGY) are both transportation companies, but which 
is the superior business? We will compare the two businesses based on the strength of their analyst 
recommendations, valuation, institutional ownership, risk, profitability, dividends and earnings.  
Analyst Ratings
This is a breakdown of current ratings and price targets for Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S, as provided by 
MarketBeat.com. 
Sell Ratings
Hold Ratings
Buy Ratings
Strong Buy 
Ratings
Rating Score
Ryanair
1
5
2
0
2.13
Intl Cons Airl/S
2
3
1
0
1.83
Dividends
Intl Cons Airl/S pays an annual dividend of $0.55 per share and has a dividend yield of 3.1%. Ryanair does not pay 
a dividend. Intl Cons Airl/S pays out 9.5% of its earnings in the form of a dividend.  
Risk and Volatility Ryanair has a beta of 0.67, suggesting that its stock price is 33% less volatile than the S&P 
500. Comparatively, Intl Cons Airl/S has a beta of 1, suggesting that its stock price has a similar volatility profile to 
the S&P 500.
Valuation and Earnings This table compares Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S's revenue, earnings per share (EPS) 
and valuation.
Gross 
Revenue
Price/Sales 
Ratio
Net Income
Earnings Per 
Share
Price/Earnings 
Ratio
Ryanair
$8.37 billion
3.16
$1.70 billion
$7.05
16.03
Intl Cons Airl/S
$25.95 billion
0.28
$2.26 billion
$5.81
3.07
Intl Cons Airl/S has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. Intl Cons Airl/S is trading at a lower price-to-
earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. 
Profitability
Comparing Ryanair ( RYAAY ) & Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY)
This table compares Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S's net margins, return on equity and return on assets.
Net Margins
Return on Equity
Return on Assets
Ryanair
20.13%
31.73%
12.17%
Intl Cons Airl/S
12.18%
80.31%
18.11%
Institutional and Insider Ownership
43.7% of Ryanair shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 0.1% of Intl Cons Airl/S shares are held 
by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that endowments, large money managers 
and hedge funds believe a company will outperform the market over the long term. 
Summary
Ryanair beats Intl Cons Airl/S on 8 of the 14 factors compared between the two stocks. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair logo Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such 
as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel 
insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In 
addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car 
parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 
737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving 
approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, 
Ireland. 
About Intl Cons Airl/S
Intl Cons Airl/S logo International Consolidated Airlines Group, S.A., together with its subsidiaries, engages in the 
provision of passenger and cargo transportation services in the United Kingdom, Spain, Ireland, the United States, 
and rest of the world. The company operates under the British Airways, Iberia, Vueling, LEVEL, IAG Cargo, Avios, 
and Aer Lingus brands. As of February 12, 2018, it operated a fleet of 547 aircraft flying to 268 destinations. The 
company was incorporated in 2010 and is based in Madrid, Spain.    
Load-Date: July 6, 2018
End of Document
Head-To-Head Survey: Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) and Ryanair (RYAAY)
Head-To-Head Survey: Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) and Ryanair (RYAAY)
Transcript Daily
July 6, 2018 Friday 10:30 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 555 words
Body
Jul 06, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Intl Cons Airl/S (OTCMKTS: 
ICAGY) and Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) are both transportation companies, but which is the superior stock? We 
will compare the two companies based on the strength of their profitability, risk, valuation, earnings, institutional 
ownership, analyst recommendations and dividends. 
Insider ...stitutional Ownership0.1% of Intl Cons Airl/S shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 
43.7% of Ryanair shares are held by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that large 
money managers, hedge funds and endowments believe a company will outperform the market over the long 
term.DividendsIntl Cons Airl/S pays an annual dividend of $0.55 per share and has a dividend yield of 3.1%. 
Ryanair does not pay a dividend. Intl Cons Airl/S pays out 9.5% of its earnings in the form of a dividend. Analyst 
RecommendationsThis is a breakdown of recent ratings and price targets for Intl Cons Airl/S and Ryanair, as 
provided by MarketBeat.com. Earnings and Valuation This table compares Intl Cons Airl/S and Ryanair's top-line 
revenue, earnings per share and valuation. Intl Cons Airl/S has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. Intl 
Cons Airl/S is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more 
affordable of the two stocks. ProfitabilityThis table compares Intl Cons Airl/S and Ryanair's net margins, return on 
equity and return on assets. Risk ...latility Intl Cons Airl/S has a beta of 1, meaning that its stock price has a similar 
volatility profile to the S...00.Comparatively, Ryanair has a beta of 0.67, meaning that its stock price is 33% less 
volatile than the S...00. SummaryRyanair beats Intl Cons Airl/S on 8 of the 14 factors compared between the two 
stocks.Intl Cons Airl/S Company ProfileInternational Consolidated Airlines Group, S.A., together with its 
subsidiaries, engages in the provision of passenger and cargo transportation services in the United Kingdom, 
Spain, Ireland, the United States, and rest of the world. The company operates under the British Airways, Iberia, 
Vueling, LEVEL, IAG Cargo, Avios, and Aer Lingus brands. As of February 12, 2018, it operated a fleet of 547 
aircraft flying to 268 destinations. The company was incorporated in 2010 and is based in Madrid, Spain.Ryanair 
Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services 
in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, 
such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and 
travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
In addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car 
parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 
737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving 
approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, 
Ireland. 
Head-To-Head Survey: Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) and Ryanair (RYAAY)
Load-Date: July 6, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair faces summer of strikes across Europe Airlines
Ryanair faces summer of strikes across Europe; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 6, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 12
Length: 330 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair faces strikes among pilots and cabin crew across Europe this summer after talks with labour unions failed 
to reach an agreement.
The Irish Airline Pilots Association (Ialpa) has voted to strike on Thursday next week, and cabin crew unions from 
Spain, Portugal and Belgium are taking industrial action on July 25 and 26. Italian crews plan to strike on July 25. 
Cabin crew unions estimated that 4,800 workers would be involved in the strikes, a significant fraction of Ryanair's 
13,000 total employees. Ialpa said its members had "seen no evidence whatsoever on the part of Ryanair 
management to engage in meaningful negotiations with a view to reaching agreement".
European cabin crew unions had asked Ryanair to apply local, not Irish, law to employment contracts, but the 
airline declined to do so, they said.
Investec analyst Alex Paterson said the strikes were "unhelpful" but it remained to be seen whether they were "a 
new normal".
"Now Ryanair has recognised its unions, are they all going to test Ryanair very soon with threats of strikes or is this 
more isolated?" he added.
Ryanair agreed to recognise its unions in December after it was forced to cancel thousands of flights because of 
roster errors. Pilots were emboldened to push for better terms.
Ryanair faces summer of strikes across Europe Airlines
Mr Paterson said he did not think the strikes would be nearly as expensive as last year, but added that they would 
consume significant management time.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary said earlier this year that it would "continue to deal openly and fairly with our 
people and their unions, but we will not make concessions on pay or productivity which threatens either our low cost 
model or our cost leadership in Europe."
Ryanair's German pilots' union, Vereinigung Cockpit, is holding a strike ballot, with a result due late this month.
Ryanair's cabin crew, spread across 21 countries, on Tuesday published demands including a "fair living wage", 
seniority pay, predictable working hours and application of national law.
Load-Date: July 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair faces summer of strikes across Europe Airlines
Ryanair faces summer of strikes across Europe; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 6, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 12
Length: 330 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair faces strikes among pilots and cabin crew across Europe this summer after talks with labour unions failed 
to reach an agreement.
The Irish Airline Pilots Association (Ialpa) has voted to strike on Thursday next week, and cabin crew unions from 
Spain, Portugal and Belgium are taking industrial action on July 25 and 26. Italian crews plan to strike on July 25. 
Cabin crew unions estimated that 4,800 workers would be involved in the strikes, a significant fraction of Ryanair's 
13,000 total employees. Ialpa said its members had "seen no evidence whatsoever on the part of Ryanair 
management to engage in meaningful negotiations with a view to reaching agreement".
European cabin crew unions had asked Ryanair to apply local, not Irish, law to employment contracts, but the 
airline declined to do so, they said.
Investec analyst Alex Paterson said the strikes were "unhelpful" but it remained to be seen whether they were "a 
new normal".
"Now Ryanair has recognised its unions, are they all going to test Ryanair very soon with threats of strikes or is this 
more isolated?" he added.
Ryanair agreed to recognise its unions in December after it was forced to cancel thousands of flights because of 
roster errors. Pilots were emboldened to push for better terms.
Ryanair faces summer of strikes across Europe Airlines
Mr Paterson said he did not think the strikes would be nearly as expensive as last year, but added that they would 
consume significant management time.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary said earlier this year that it would "continue to deal openly and fairly with our 
people and their unions, but we will not make concessions on pay or productivity which threatens either our low cost 
model or our cost leadership in Europe."
Ryanair's German pilots' union, Vereinigung Cockpit, is holding a strike ballot, with a result due late this month.
Ryanair's cabin crew, spread across 21 countries, on Tuesday published demands including a "fair living wage", 
seniority pay, predictable working hours and application of national law.
Load-Date: July 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair faces summer of strikes across Europe Airlines
Ryanair faces summer of strikes across Europe; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 6, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 12
Length: 330 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair faces strikes among pilots and cabin crew across Europe this summer after talks with labour unions failed 
to reach an agreement.
The Irish Airline Pilots Association (Ialpa) has voted to strike on Thursday next week, and cabin crew unions from 
Spain, Portugal and Belgium are taking industrial action on July 25 and 26. Italian crews plan to strike on July 25. 
Cabin crew unions estimated that 4,800 workers would be involved in the strikes, a significant fraction of Ryanair's 
13,000 total employees. Ialpa said its members had "seen no evidence whatsoever on the part of Ryanair 
management to engage in meaningful negotiations with a view to reaching agreement".
European cabin crew unions had asked Ryanair to apply local, not Irish, law to employment contracts, but the 
airline declined to do so, they said.
Investec analyst Alex Paterson said the strikes were "unhelpful" but it remained to be seen whether they were "a 
new normal".
"Now Ryanair has recognised its unions, are they all going to test Ryanair very soon with threats of strikes or is this 
more isolated?" he added.
Ryanair agreed to recognise its unions in December after it was forced to cancel thousands of flights because of 
roster errors. Pilots were emboldened to push for better terms.
Ryanair faces summer of strikes across Europe Airlines
Mr Paterson said he did not think the strikes would be nearly as expensive as last year, but added that they would 
consume significant management time.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary said earlier this year that it would "continue to deal openly and fairly with our 
people and their unions, but we will not make concessions on pay or productivity which threatens either our low cost 
model or our cost leadership in Europe."
Ryanair's German pilots' union, Vereinigung Cockpit, is holding a strike ballot, with a result due late this month.
Ryanair's cabin crew, spread across 21 countries, on Tuesday published demands including a "fair living wage", 
seniority pay, predictable working hours and application of national law.
Load-Date: July 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair faces summer of strikes across Europe Airlines
Ryanair faces summer of strikes across Europe; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
July 6, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 14
Length: 330 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Ryanair faces strikes among pilots and cabin crew across Europe this summer after talks with labour unions failed 
to reach an agreement.
The Irish Airline Pilots Association (Ialpa) has voted to strike on Thursday next week, and cabin crew unions from 
Spain, Portugal and Belgium are taking industrial action on July 25 and 26. Italian crews plan to strike on July 25. 
Cabin crew unions estimated that 4,800 workers would be involved in the strikes, a significant fraction of Ryanair's 
13,000 total employees. Ialpa said its members had "seen no evidence whatsoever on the part of Ryanair 
management to engage in meaningful negotiations with a view to reaching agreement".
European cabin crew unions had asked Ryanair to apply local, not Irish, law to employment contracts, but the 
airline declined to do so, they said.
Investec analyst Alex Paterson said the strikes were "unhelpful" but it remained to be seen whether they were "a 
new normal".
"Now Ryanair has recognised its unions, are they all going to test Ryanair very soon with threats of strikes or is this 
more isolated?" he added.
Ryanair agreed to recognise its unions in December after it was forced to cancel thousands of flights because of 
roster errors. Pilots were emboldened to push for better terms.
Ryanair faces summer of strikes across Europe Airlines
Mr Paterson said he did not think the strikes would be nearly as expensive as last year, but added that they would 
consume significant management time.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary said earlier this year that it would "continue to deal openly and fairly with our 
people and their unions, but we will not make concessions on pay or productivity which threatens either our low cost 
model or our cost leadership in Europe."
Ryanair's German pilots' union, Vereinigung Cockpit, is holding a strike ballot, with a result due late this month.
Ryanair's cabin crew, spread across 21 countries, on Tuesday published demands including a "fair living wage", 
seniority pay, predictable working hours and application of national law.
Load-Date: July 5, 2018
End of Document
LONDON MARKET EARLY CALL: Lower Open Seen With Friday's Tariffs Eyed
LONDON MARKET EARLY CALL: Lower Open Seen With Friday's Tariffs 
Eyed
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 5, 2018 Thursday 1:58 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 715 words
Body
 Stocks in London are called for a slightly lower open on Thursday, with investors continuing to err on the side of 
caution as the US and China look set to proceed with reciprocal tariffs on Friday.
IG says futures indicate the FTSE 100 index of large-caps to open 5.69 points lower at 7,567.40 on Thursday. The 
FTSE 100 index closed down 0.3%, or 20.20 points, at 7,573.09 on Wednesday.
Markets are pointing to a "lower but uninspiring open" on Thursday, said Jasper Lawler, head of research at London 
Capital Group. Reciprocal tariffs from the US and China on the other's goods are due to come in on Friday.
"With the continued uncertainty as to what the actual next move will be, from either power, traders were opting to sit 
on the side lines," said Lawler.
Chancellor Angela Merkel said she will make "every effort" to avoid a trade war with the US and repeated her 
pledge to increase defence spending, addressing two major points of contention in the US-German relationship.
Speaking in the German parliament on Wednesday, Merkel said "it is worth making every effort to try to deescalate 
this conflict so that it does not become an all-out war ... Germany is definitely committed to it as is the entire EU."
But, speaking at an economics event organized by the Munich-based Ifo institute, EU commissioner Guenther 
Oettinger predicted: "There will be a trade war."
In the UK, Theresa May faced fresh warnings and pressure over the shape and content of the final Brexit deal as 
crunch cabinet talks at Chequers loom.
With little more than a day to go before senior ministers meet in Buckinghamshire to thrash out a white paper, 
ministers are said to be sceptical about the so-called "third way" to solve the customs issue on the Irish border.
LONDON MARKET EARLY CALL: Lower Open Seen With Friday's Tariffs Eyed
According to the Financial Times, Brussels will express concern about the reliance of this plan on untested 
technology and will question how it is not "an open invitation to smugglers".
Meanwhile, Jaguar Land Rover warned that a "bad" deal on Brexit could cost it GBP1.2 billion every year. It follows 
similar warnings in recent weeks from Airbus and BMW who have voiced concerns about the impact of a no-deal 
Brexit on UK jobs and investment.
Elsewhere, the European Commission said it has opened an in-depth investigation to assess whether marketing 
agreements concluded between the Association for the Promotion of Touristic and Economic Flows and Ryanair at 
the airport of Montpellier in France are in line with EU State aid rules.
Montpellier airport is a regional airport located in the French region of Occitanie. The airport is one of the twenty 
largest in France and served 1.9 million passengers in 2017.
The Commission received a complaint concerning marketing agreements between the Association for the 
Promotion of Touristic and Economic Flows and Ryanair and its subsidiary AMS. The complainant alleged that the 
agreements amounted to illegal State aid in favour of Ryanair.
In Asia on Thursday, the Japanese Nikkei 225 index is down 0.8%. In China, the Shanghai Composite is down 
0.9%, while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong is down 1.2%.
Markets in the US were closed on Wednesday for the Independence Day holiday, and re-open on Thursday.
In Thursday's corporate calendar, Primark-owner Associated British Foods, electronic products distributor 
Electrocomponents, and housebuilders Bovis Homes and Persimmon all release trading updates. Fashion retailer 
Superdry and online estate agent Purplebricks release annual results.
In the economic calendar on Thursday, German factory orders are at 0700 BST, while in the US there is ADP 
employment change at 1315 BST followed by initial and continuing jobless claims at 1330 BST. The Markit 
composite PMI is at 1445 BST, with the ISM non-manufacturing PMI at 1500 BST.
In the central bank events calendar on Thursday, Bank of England Governor Mark Carney will speak at 1100 BST 
while in the US, the minutes from the latest Federal Open Market Committee will be released at 1900 BST.
"The June FOMC Minutes should shed some light on the Fed's level of conviction behind a fourth rate hike later this 
year. We will also watch for the Fed's assessment of various risks to the outlook, especially on the trade front, as 
well as officials' views on underlying inflation," said analysts at Societe Generale.
Load-Date: July 6, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair cabin crew in four countries to strike
Ryanair cabin crew in four countries to strike
Business World (Digest)
July 05, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 481 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair cabin crew are to hold coordinated strikes in four European countries, a union official said on Wednesday, 
escalating industrial action at Europe's largest low-cost carrier which dismissed their demands as "pointless."
Cabin crew in Spain, Portugal, Italy and Belgium are planning strikes and will announce dates for the action on 
Thursday once authorities in Italy give their approval, Antonio Escobar, an official with Spanish union SITCPLA 
said.
He added that other countries may join the action.
The cabin crew are joining Irish Ryanair pilots who on Tuesday announced a strike for July 12, saying Europe's 
largest low-cost carrier had failed to improve conditions sufficiently after recognizing unions in December.
Ryanair, which flies in 37 countries and carried 130 million passengers last year, averted widespread strikes before 
Christmas by deciding to recognize trade unions for the first time in its 32-year history. But it has since struggled to 
reach agreement on terms with several of them.
Cabin crew from across Europe published a list of 34 demands on Wednesday, including "a fair living wage," 
improved sick pay and employment contracts in their own language based on local rather than Irish law.
The list of demands was drawn up by crew representing 80 percent of Ryanair's 86 bases, the International 
Transport Workers Federation, which organized the event, said in a statement.
Ryanair cabin crew in four countries to strike
Cabin crew said at a media briefing they were forced to physically report to work when sick to provide written details 
of symptoms and struggled to claim sick pay as their terms and conditions often straddled the law of Ireland and 
their home country.
The cabin crew, who spoke on condition of anonymity saying they feared reprisals if they went public, said staff 
from several EU countries were forced to travel to Ireland to open bank accounts in order to receive pay.
A Ryanair spokesman disputed some of the claims and described the demands as "pointless" considering the 
attractiveness of the overall package offered to staff.
He said cabin crew received sick pay and a 400-euro annual uniform allowance and could earn up to 40,000 euros 
per year. Crew had attractive working hours and could not legally fly for more than an average of 18 hours per 
week, he said.
"Ryanair is already engaged in extensive negotiations with national cabin crew unions across Europe during which 
all of these, and other issues, are being negotiated and we have already concluded agreements in the UK and 
Italy,” the spokesman said.
Italian union Ultrasporti has said the agreement Ryanair secured in Italy is with a union that does not represent the 
majority of Ryanair cabin crew in the region.
Portuguese union SNPVAC, Spain's SITCPLA and USO, Italy's Ultrasporti and Belgium's CNE/LBC in April 
released a joint threat to strike if their demands were not met by June 30. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 31, 2018
End of Document
European Markets Climb On Growing Strength Of Automakers
European Markets Climb On Growing Strength Of Automakers
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
July 5, 2018 Thursday 12:00 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 584 words
Body
 The European markets ended Thursday's session in the green. Traders were encouraged by the stronger than 
expected German factory orders data and easing trade concerns.
Automakers were among the top performing stocks amid reports that the Trump administration might suspend 
threats to impose tariffs on cars imported from the EU if the block lifted duties on US cars.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index advanced 0.41%. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks 
increased 0.84%, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major UK companies, added 0.31%.
The DAX of Germany climbed 1.19% and the CAC of France rose 0.86%. The FTSE 100 of the UK gained 0.40% 
and the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 0.12%.
In Frankfurt, Daimler advanced 3.80%, BMW gained 3.60% and Volkswagen added 3.69%.
In Paris, Renault climbed 2.90% and Peugeot rose 3.54%.
Sodexo advanced 8.69%. The food services and facilities management group has maintained its full-year goals 
after posting Q3 sales that topped forecasts.
In London, fashion retailer SuperDry soared 6.59% after announcing a special dividend.
Primark-owner Associated British Foods sank 4.16% after it released a trading update for the 40 weeks to 23 June 
2018.
Ryanair Holdings dropped 2.44% after the European Commission opened an in-depth investigation into marketing 
agreements with regional and local authorities in France.
Insurance group Assicurazioni Generali climbed 1.86% in Milan after it entered into an agreement with Generali 
Deutschland to sell the 89.9% stake in Generali Leben to Viridium Gruppe.
European Markets Climb On Growing Strength Of Automakers
Germany's factory orders expanded for the first time in five months in May, largely on robust domestic demand. 
Factory orders grew 2.6% month-on-month in May, in contrast to a revised 1.6% drop in April, data from Destatis 
showed Thursday. Orders were expected to climb moderately by 1.1%.
Germany's construction sector growth remained robust in June, despite easing from the previous month, survey 
data from IHS Markit showed Thursday. The construction Purchasing Managers' Index dropped to 53.0 in June 
from 53.9 in May. However, any reading above 50 indicates expansion in the sector.
Private sector employment in the US increased by less than expected in the month of June, according to a report 
released by payroll processor ADP on Thursday. ADP said private sector employment climbed by 177,000 jobs in 
June after jumping by an upwardly revised 189,000 jobs in May.
Economists had expected employment to rise by about 190,000 jobs compared to the addition of 178,000 jobs 
originally reported for the previous month.
A day ahead of the release of the more closely watched monthly jobs report, the Labor Department released a 
report on Thursday showing a modest uptick in first-time claims for US unemployment benefits in the week ended 
June 30th.
The report said initial jobless claims inched up to 231,000, an increase of 3,000 from the previous week's revised 
level of 228,000. The modest increase came as a surprise to economists, who had expected jobless claims to edge 
down to 225,000 from the 227,000 originally reported for the previous week.
A report released by the Institute for Supply Management on Thursday showed growth in activity in the US service 
sector unexpectedly accelerated in the month of June.
The ISM said its non-manufacturing index rose to 59.1 in June after climbing to 58.6 in May, with a reading above 
50 indicating growth in the service sector. Economists had expected the index to edged down to 58.3.
Load-Date: July 6, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair strike due on July 25-26 in Belgium , Italy , Portugal , Spain
Ryanair strike due on July 25-26 in Belgium, Italy, Portugal, Spain
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 5, 2018 Thursday 3:43 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 271 words
Body
       By Helen Maguire, dpa   BRUSSELS (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair cabin staff have agreed to go on strike on July 25 
and 26 in Belgium, Italy, Portugal and Spain, a consortium of trade unions announced on Thursday, following talks 
in Brussels.  Employees at Europe's largest budget airline have long demanded better pay and working conditions. 
 Trade unions from Belgium, Spain, Portugal and Italy convened Thursday's talks after Ryanair missed an end-of-
June deadline to apply national labour laws, enter into negotiations with them and apply the same conditions to all 
cabin crew, the unions said in a statement.    'Regretfully, Ryanair chose to continue to ignore its workforce and 
gave these unions no other choice but to call for a national 24 hours strike action,' the statement said.   Ryanair 
cabin crews are due to strike in all four countries on July 25, with Italian staff resuming work on July 26 while the 
Belgian, Spanish and Portuguese workforce continue their industrial action.   Unions in other European countries 
might also take action in the coming weeks, the statement said, noting that 'legal restrictions and extensive 
bureaucratic procedures,' were currently preventing them from doing so.   The statement calls on the European 
Commission and EU governments to act against Ryanair's labour practices, while urging the European Aviation 
Safety Agency and its national counterparts to be 'more vigilant with Ryanair and make them abide by the law.'  The 
statement was signed by the CNE and LBC unions in Belgium, SITCPLA and USO in Spain, the SNPVAC in 
Portugal and Italy's Uiltrasporti union.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: July 5, 2018
End of Document
EU Opens In-depth Investigation Into Ryanair 's Montpellier Deals
EU Opens In-depth Investigation Into Ryanair's Montpellier Deals
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 5, 2018 Thursday 2:58 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 299 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - The European Commission said it has opened an in-depth investigation to assess 
whether marketing agreements concluded between the Association for the Promotion of Touristic and Economic 
Flows and Ryanair at the airport of Montpellier in France are in line with EU State aid rules.  Montpellier airport is a 
regional airport located in the French region of Occitanie. 
The airport is one of the twenty largest in France and served 1.9 million passengers in 2017.  The Commission 
received a complaint concerning marketing agreements between the Association for the Promotion of Touristic and 
Economic Flows (Association de Promotion des Flux Touristiques et Economiques, 'APFTE') and Ryanair and its 
subsidiary AMS. The complainant alleged that the agreements amounted to illegal State aid in favour of Ryanair.  
Since 2010, the APFTE has concluded various agreements with Ryanair, under which Ryanair has received 
substantial payments in exchange for promoting Montpellier and the surrounding area as a touristic destination on 
its website. The APFTE is an independent association, unrelated to the airport operator, and is funded almost 
entirely by regional and local public entities. The Commission has therefore concluded on a preliminary basis that 
the agreements with Ryanair are financed through State resources and attributable to the State.  At this stage, the 
Commission has concerns that the terms of the agreements may give Ryanair an undue economic advantage vis-
\xE0-vis its competitors, because the conditions are too favourable and no private operator would have accepted to 
enter into similar arrangements with Ryanair to purchase marketing services.  The Commission will now investigate 
further to find out whether its initial concerns are confirmed.      
Load-Date: July 5, 2018
End of Document
Guggenheim Capital LLC Has $4.92 Million Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Guggenheim Capital LLC Has $4.92 Million Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
July 5, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 672 words
Body
Ryanair logo Guggenheim Capital LLC trimmed its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
14.3% during the first quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the Securities & 
Exchange Commission. The firm owned 40,036 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 6,668 
shares during the period. Guggenheim Capital LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $4,919,000 as of its most 
recent SEC filing.  
Other large investors also recently modified their holdings of the company. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its 
holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 25.2% during the fourth quarter. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. now owns 116,474 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $12,135,000 after acquiring an additional 23,471 shares during 
the period.  We Are One Seven LLC acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth 
$211,000.  Deutsche Bank AG raised its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 754.1% during the fourth quarter. 
Deutsche Bank AG now owns 259,890 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,076,000 after 
acquiring an additional 229,460 shares during the period.  Amundi Pioneer Asset Management Inc. acquired a new 
stake in shares of  Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth $2,094,000.  Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA raised its 
holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 2,506.9% during the fourth quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $195,000 after acquiring an additional 1,805 shares during the 
period. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.70% of the company's stock.  
Several equities research analysts have issued reports on the stock. BidaskClub upgraded shares of Ryanair from 
a "buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a research note on Saturday, March 17th. Zacks Investment Research  
upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target on the stock in a 
research note on Thursday, March 29th. Deutsche Bank lowered shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" 
rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, Exane BNP Paribas lowered shares of 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Three equities 
research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have issued  a hold rating and three have issued  a buy 
rating to the stock. Ryanair presently has an average rating of "Hold" and a consensus target price of $138.00. 
Shares of Ryanair opened at $113.39 on Thursday, according to Marketbeat . Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year 
low of $101.10 and a one year high of $127.61. The stock has a market capitalization of $26.62 billion, a PE ratio of 
Guggenheim Capital LLC Has $4.92 Million Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
16.08 and a beta of 0.67. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 
0.79.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, beating analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair 
had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion during the 
quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion.  research analysts forecast that  Ryanair Holdings plc 
will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: July 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair strike due on July 25-26 in Belgium , Italy , Portugal , Spain
Ryanair strike due on July 25-26 in Belgium, Italy, Portugal, Spain
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 5, 2018 Thursday 3:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 270 words
Byline: Helen Maguire in Brussels
Dateline: Brussels (dpa) - 
Body
Ryanair cabin staff have agreed to go on strike on July 25 and 26 in Belgium, Italy, Portugal and Spain, a 
consortium of trade unions announced on Thursday, following talks in Brussels.
Employees at Europe's largest budget airline have long demanded better pay and working conditions.
Trade unions from Belgium, Spain, Portugal and Italy convened Thursday's talks after Ryanair missed an end-of-
June deadline to apply national labour laws, enter into negotiations with them and apply the same conditions to all 
cabin crew, the unions said in a statement.
"Regretfully, Ryanair chose to continue to ignore its workforce and gave these unions no other choice but to call for 
a national 24 hours strike action," the statement said.
Ryanair cabin crews are due to strike in all four countries on July 25, with Italian staff resuming work on July 26 
while the Belgian, Spanish and Portuguese workforce continue their industrial action.
Unions in other European countries might also take action in the coming weeks, the statement said, noting that 
"legal restrictions and extensive bureaucratic procedures," were currently preventing them from doing so.
The statement calls on the European Commission and EU governments to act against Ryanair's labour practices, 
while urging the European Aviation Safety Agency and its national counterparts to be "more vigilant with Ryanair 
and make them abide by the law."
The statement was signed by the CNE and LBC unions in Belgium, SITCPLA and USO in Spain, the SNPVAC in 
Portugal and Italy's Uiltrasporti union.
Ryanair strike due on July 25-26 in Belgium , Italy , Portugal , Spain
Editorial contactsEditing by: Bill Heaney, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: July 6, 2018
End of Document
European Markets Climbed On Strength Of Automakers
European Markets Climbed On Strength Of Automakers
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 5, 2018 Thursday 5:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 627 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - The European markets ended Thursday's session in the green. 
Traders were encouraged by the stronger than expected German factory orders data and easing trade concerns.  
Automakers were among the top performing stocks amid reports that the Trump administration might suspend 
threats to impose tariffs on cars imported from the European Union if the block lifted duties on U.S. cars.  The pan-
European Stoxx Europe 600 index advanced 0.41 percent. 
The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks increased 0.84 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, 
which includes some major U.K. companies, added 0.31 percent.  The DAX of Germany climbed 1.19 percent and 
the CAC of France rose 0.86 percent. The FTSE 100 of the U.K. gained 0.40 percent and the SMI of Switzerland 
finished higher by 0.12 percent.  In Frankfurt, Daimler advanced 3.80 percent, BMW gained 3.60 percent and 
Volkswagen added 3.69 percent.  In Paris, Renault climbed 2.90 percent and Peugeot rose 3.54 percent.  Sodexo 
advanced 8.69 percent. The food services and facilities management group has maintained its full-year goals after 
posting Q3 sales that topped forecasts.  In London, fashion retailer SuperDry soared 6.59 percent after announcing 
a special dividend.  Primark-owner Associated British Foods sank 4.16 percent after it released a trading update for 
the 40 weeks to 23 June 2018.  Ryanair Holdings dropped 2.44 percent after the European Commission opened an 
in-depth investigation into marketing agreements with regional and local authorities in France.   Insurance group 
Assicurazioni Generali climbed 1.86percent in Milan after it entered into an agreement with Generali Deutschland to 
sell the 89.9 percent stake in Generali Leben to Viridium Gruppe.  Germany's factory orders expanded for the first 
time in five months in May, largely on robust domestic demand. Factory orders grew 2.6 percent month-on-month in 
May, in contrast to a revised 1.6 percent drop in April, data from Destatis showed Thursday. Orders were expected 
to climb moderately by 1.1 percent.   Germany's construction sector growth remained robust in June, despite easing 
from the previous month, survey data from IHS Markit showed Thursday. The construction Purchasing Managers' 
Index dropped to 53.0 in June from 53.9 in May. However, any reading above 50 indicates expansion in the sector.  
Private sector employment in the U.S. increased by less than expected in the month of June, according to a report 
released by payroll processor ADP on Thursday. ADP said private sector employment climbed by 177,000 jobs in 
June after jumping by an upwardly revised 189,000 jobs in May.  Economists had expected employment to rise by 
about 190,000 jobs compared to the addition of 178,000 jobs originally reported for the previous month.   A day 
European Markets Climbed On Strength Of Automakers
ahead of the release of the more closely watched monthly jobs report, the Labor Department released a report on 
Thursday showing a modest uptick in first-time claims for U.S. unemployment benefits in the week ended June 
30th.  The report said initial jobless claims inched up to 231,000, an increase of 3,000 from the previous week's 
revised level of 228,000. The modest increase came as a surprise to economists, who had expected jobless claims 
to edge down to 225,000 from the 227,000 originally reported for the previous week.  A report released by the 
Institute for Supply Management on Thursday showed growth in activity in the U.S. service sector unexpectedly 
accelerated in the month of June.  The ISM said its non-manufacturing index rose to 59.1 in June after climbing to 
58.6 in May, with a reading above 50 indicating growth in the service sector. Economists had expected the index to 
edged down to 58.3.      
Load-Date: July 5, 2018
End of Document
Critical Survey: Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) and Ryanair (RYAAY)
Critical Survey: Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) and Ryanair (RYAAY)
Transcript Daily
July 5, 2018 Thursday 4:25 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 553 words
Body
Jul 05, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair (NASDAQ: RYAAY) and 
Intl Cons Airl/S (OTCMKTS:ICAGY) are both transportation companies, but which is the better investment? We will 
compare the two businesses based on the strength of their dividends, risk, analyst recommendations, profitability, 
institutional ownership, valuation and earnings. 
Analyst RatingsThis is a breakdown of current ratings and target prices for Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S, as provided 
by MarketBeat.com. Valuation and Earnings This table compares Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S's top-line revenue, 
earnings per share (EPS) and valuation. Intl Cons Airl/S has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. Intl Cons 
Airl/S is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of 
the two stocks. DividendsIntl Cons Airl/S pays an annual dividend of $0.55 per share and has a dividend yield of 
3.1%. Ryanair does not pay a dividend. Intl Cons Airl/S pays out 9.5% of its earnings in the form of a dividend. Risk 
...latility Ryanair has a beta of 0.67, meaning that its share price is 33% less volatile than the S...00. Comparatively, 
Intl Cons Airl/S has a beta of 1, meaning that its share price has a similar volatility profile to the S...00. 
ProfitabilityThis table compares Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S's net margins, return on equity and return on assets. 
Institutional ...sider Ownership43.7% of Ryanair shares are owned by institutional investors. Comparatively, 0.1% of 
Intl Cons Airl/S shares are owned by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that large 
money 
managers, 
endowments 
and 
hedge 
funds 
believe 
a 
company 
is 
poised 
for 
long-term 
growth.SummaryRyanair beats Intl Cons Airl/S on 8 of the 14 factors compared between the two stocks.Ryanair 
Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services 
in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, 
such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and 
travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
In addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car 
parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 
737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving 
approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, 
Ireland.Intl Cons Airl/S Company ProfileInternational Consolidated Airlines Group, S.A., together with its 
subsidiaries, engages in the provision of passenger and cargo transportation services in the United Kingdom, 
Spain, Ireland, the United States, and rest of the world. The company operates under the British Airways, Iberia, 
Vueling, LEVEL, IAG Cargo, Avios, and Aer Lingus brands. As of February 12, 2018, it operated a fleet of 547 
aircraft flying to 268 destinations. The company was incorporated in 2010 and is based in Madrid, Spain. 
Critical Survey: Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) and Ryanair (RYAAY)
Load-Date: July 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings Cabin Crew In 4 EU Countries To Proceed With Planned Strike
Ryanair Holdings Cabin Crew In 4 EU Countries To Proceed With Planned 
Strike
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 5, 2018 Thursday 2:29 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 124 words
Body
 Cabin crew of low-cost carrier Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) in Italy, Spain, Portugal and Belgium released their 
upcoming strike schedules amid ongoing disagreements over employment terms, according to Thursday reports.
Personnel in Italy will hold a 24-hour strike July 25, while crew in Spain, Portugal and Belgium will stage a 48-hour 
protest from the same day. Worker unions recently demanded certain changes to their employment terms, including 
being paid through local banks instead, and warned of further labor action if the airline does not make some 
concessions.
Ryanair pilots in Ireland are also set to proceed with their planned July 12 strike to push for a deal over a seniority 
agreement. 
Price: 112.68, Change: -0.71, Percent Change: -0.62
Load-Date: July 6, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Gets Probed by EU For Alleged Illegal State Aid In France
Ryanair Gets Probed by EU For Alleged Illegal State Aid In France
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 5, 2018 Thursday 6:02 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 152 words
Body
 Ireland-based carrier Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) is being investigated by the European Commission for an alleged 
illegal state aid relating to its tourism promotions contract with regional and local authorities in France.
The regulator said Wednesday it is assessing whether the company's contract with the Association for the 
Promotion of Touristic and Economic Flows for promoting the area around Montpellier Airport are in line with the 
European Union's state aid rules, which ban aid to businesses that distorts normal commercial competition and give 
an unfair advantage.
"We will investigate whether regional and local authorities in France granted an undue economic advantage to 
Ryanair over its competitors, potentially harming other European airlines and having spill-over effects to other 
European regions," Margrethe Vestager, EU competition commissioner.
Price: 113.39, Change: -0.26, Percent Change: -0.23
Load-Date: July 6, 2018
End of Document
FTSE 100 Rises Ahead Of Carney Speech
FTSE 100 Rises Ahead Of Carney Speech
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 5, 2018 Thursday 11:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 125 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - U.K. shares were modestly higher on Thursday as investors 
eyed a speech from Bank of England Governor Mark Carney for signals regarding the chances of an August rate 
rise.  The benchmark FTSE 100 was up 25 points or 0.33 percent at 7,598 in late opening deals after declining 0.3 
percent in the previous session.   Fashion retailer SuperDry soared almost 9 percent after announcing a special 
dividend.  Ryanair Holdings dropped 1.3 percent after the European Commission opened an in-depth investigation 
into marketing agreements with regional and local authorities in France.   Primark-owner Associated British Foods 
slumped 4.7 percent after it released a trading update for the 40 weeks to 23 June 2018.      
Load-Date: July 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair strike due on July 25-26 in Belgium , Italy , Portugal , Spain
Ryanair strike due on July 25-26 in Belgium, Italy, Portugal, Spain
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
July 5, 2018 Thursday 2:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 95 words
Byline: Helen Maguire in Brussels
Dateline: Brussels (dpa) - 
Body
Ryanair staff have agreed to go on strike on July 25 and 26 in Belgium, Italy, Portugal and Spain, the CNE trade 
union told dpa on Thursday, confirming Belgian media reports.
Employees at Europe's largest budget airline have long demanded better pay and working conditions.
Trade unions had convened Thursday's talks in Brussels following an end-of-June ultimatum for Ryanair to accept 
local regulations, as other airlines do, according to the CNE, one of Belgium's largest trade unions.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Bill Heaney, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: July 6, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair strike due on July 25-26 in Belgium , Italy , Portugal , Spain
Ryanair strike due on July 25-26 in Belgium, Italy, Portugal, Spain
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 5, 2018 Thursday 2:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 89 words
Body
       BRUSSELS (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair staff have agreed to go on strike on July 25 and 26 in Belgium, Italy, Portugal 
and Spain, the CNE trade union told dpa on Thursday, confirming Belgian media reports.  Employees at Europe's 
largest budget airline have long demanded better pay and working conditions.  Trade unions had convened 
Thursday's talks in Brussels following an end-of-June ultimatum for Ryanair to accept local regulations, as other 
airlines do, according to the CNE, one of Belgium's largest trade unions.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: July 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Crew Is Going On Strike
Ryanair Crew Is Going On Strike
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
July 5, 2018 Thursday 5:33 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 134 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Cabins Crew United, the union of Ryanair's European Network will go on strike in 
Portugal, Italy, Spain and Belgium on July 25. The Union has been asking for an improvement in employee terms.   
The Union members in Portugal, Belgium and Spain will be on strike for 48 hours, while cabin crew in Italy will strike 
for 24 hours.   The contracts for cabin crew are based on laws prevailing in Ireland and the unions are demanding 
that to be amended to suit the local laws. They have called on European Commission and other officials in each 
European country to enforce European Union employment and national imperative legislation.   Ryanair described 
the strike as 'unnecessary' and said the employment conditions are competitive. The management appealed to call 
off the strike.      
Load-Date: July 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Irish pilots vote to strike for the first time
Ryanair Irish pilots vote to strike for the first time
Business World (Digest)
July 04, 2018 Wednesday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 421 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Pilots directly employed by Ryanair and who are members of its Irish trade union will go on strike for the first time 
on July 12 after the union said on Tuesday the airline had failed to meet demands over new working practices.
Europe's biggest budget carrier averted widespread strikes before last Christmas by deciding to recognise trade 
unions for the first time in its 32-year history, but has since struggled to reach agreement on terms in some 
countries.
Ryanair, which flies in 37 countries and carried 130 million passengers last year, has so far signed agreements with 
pilots in Italy and Britain, two of its largest markets, but also experienced minor disruption in Germany and Portugal.
Ryanair pilots eligible to vote in a ballot called by the Forsa/IALPA trade union, which does not include contractors, 
backed the call to engage in industrial action and will strike for 24 hours.
The union, which said 94 of the 95 ballots returned were in favour of industrial action, has advised Ryanair that it 
will notify it of additional strike days in due course but also remains available and willing to engage on the issues.
Some 120 union members, most of them captains, are directly employed by Ryanair and able to strike, a 
spokesman for the union said. Around 400 of Ryanair's more than 4,000 pilots are based in Ireland.
Ryanair said it would contact customers travelling from Ireland on Tuesday if the strike went ahead and invited the 
union to its offices for talks. It said Forsa/IALPA had failed to take up 18 previous invitations to do so.
"Since Ireland accounts for less than 7% of Ryanair flights, we expect that 93% of our customers will be unaffected 
by any strike," it said in a statement.
Ryanair Irish pilots vote to strike for the first time
While Ryanair has also had success in Britain and Italy signing recognition agreements with cabin crew, some of its 
crew will gather in Dublin on Wednesday to demand better conditions in their first pan-European summit.
At the same time, it faces the threat of strike action in Germany where pilots have until the end of July to vote on 
whether to stage further walkouts. Their union will continue negotiations, it said on Monday.
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary warned investors in May that he could not rule out the possibility of strikes 
and would face down any action.
Shares in the airline are down 21% from an all-time high last August before it had to cancel 20,000 flights over a 
rostering fiasco, triggering the pilot unrest. The stock closed the day flat at 15.50 euros. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 29, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair slams air traffic control strikes after 1,100 flight cancellations in June
Ryanair slams air traffic control strikes after 1,100 flight cancellations in 
June
City A.M.
July 4, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 216 words
Byline: REBECCA SMITH
Body
RYANAIR yesterday hit out over air traffic control (ATC) strikes once again, saying they proved particularly turbulent 
last month.
The airline still managed to post a seven per cent rise in passenger numbers for June - up to 12.6m, compared to 
the same month last year. The load factor, which reflects how full its planes are, remained unchanged at 96 per 
cent.
The Irish carrier said air traffic control strikes and staff shortages had proved a particular headache over the month, 
with over 1,100 flight cancellations compared to just 41 for the same time last year.
Ryanair's chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs reiterated the airline's calls for the European Commission to take 
"urgent action" to help tackle disruption from strikes.
He said: "Ryanair's June traffic grew by seven per cent to 12.6m customers, while our load factor remained strong 
at 96 per cent, on the back of lower fares."
Jacobs added: "Regrettably over 210,000 Ryanair customers had their flights cancelled in June because of four 
weekends of ATC strikes and repeated... ATC staff shortages. Ryanair calls for urgent action by the EU 
Commission and European governments to ameliorate the effect of ATC strikes and staff shortages in the UK, 
Germany and France from disrupting the travel plans of millions of Europe's consumers".
Ryanair slams air traffic control strikes after 1,100 flight cancellations in June
Graphic
 
The low-cost carrier said hundreds of thousands of June travel plans were disrupted
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
Head-To-Head Comparison: Ryanair (RYAAY) vs. Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY)
Head-To-Head Comparison: Ryanair (RYAAY) vs. Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY)
DailyPolitical
July 4, 2018 Wednesday 6:35 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 558 words
Body
Jul 03, 2018( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair (NASDAQ: RYAAY) and 
Intl Cons Airl/S (OTCMKTS:ICAGY) are both transportation companies, but which is the superior stock? We will 
compare the two businesses based on the strength of their risk, dividends, institutional ownership, valuation, 
analyst recommendations, profitability and earnings. 
DividendsIntl Cons Airl/S pays an annual dividend of $0.55 per share and has a dividend yield of 3.1%. Ryanair 
does not pay a dividend. Intl Cons Airl/S pays out 9.5% of its earnings in the form of a dividend. ProfitabilityThis 
table compares Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S's net margins, return on equity and return on assets. Analyst 
RecommendationsThis is a summary of recent recommendations and price targets for Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S, 
as reported by MarketBeat.com. Risk ...latility Ryanair has a beta of 0.67, suggesting that its share price is 33% 
less volatile than the S...00. Comparatively, Intl Cons Airl/S has a beta of 1, suggesting that its share price has a 
similar volatility profile to the S...00. Insider ...stitutional Ownership43.7% of Ryanair shares are owned by 
institutional investors. Comparatively, 0.1% of Intl Cons Airl/S shares are owned by institutional investors. Strong 
institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, endowments and large money managers believe a stock 
will outperform the market over the long term.Valuation ...rnings This table compares Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S's 
top-line revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation. Intl Cons Airl/S has higher revenue and earnings than 
Ryanair. Intl Cons Airl/S is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the 
more affordable of the two stocks. SummaryRyanair beats Intl Cons Airl/S on 8 of the 14 factors compared between 
the two stocks.Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-
passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers 
various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets 
accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food, and merchandise. In addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and 
through its Website; and markets car parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its 
Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 
scheduled short-haul flights per day serving approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was 
founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, Ireland.Intl Cons Airl/S Company ProfileInternational 
Consolidated Airlines Group, S.A., together with its subsidiaries, engages in the provision of passenger and cargo 
transportation services in the United Kingdom, Spain, Ireland, the United States, and rest of the world. The 
company operates under the British Airways, Iberia, Vueling, LEVEL, IAG Cargo, Avios, and Aer Lingus brands. As 
of February 12, 2018, it operated a fleet of 547 aircraft flying to 268 destinations. The company was incorporated in 
2010 and is based in Madrid, Spain. 
Head-To-Head Comparison: Ryanair (RYAAY) vs. Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY)
Load-Date: July 4, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair releases June traffic statistics
Ryanair releases June traffic statistics
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
July 3, 2018 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 131 words
Highlight: Ryanair has released June traffic statistics on 3 July.
Body
Traffic grew 7% to 12.6m customersATC strikes and staff shortages caused over 1,100 flight cancellations in June 
compared to just 41 cancellations in June 17Rolling annual traffic to June grew 7% to 132.9m customersRyanair's 
Kenny Jacobs said:"Ryanair's June traffic grew by 7% to 12.6m customers, while our load factor remained strong at 
96%, on the back of lower fares.Regrettably over 210,000 Ryanair customers had their flights cancelled in June 
because of 4 weekends of ATC strikes and repeated UK, German and French ATC staff shortages. Ryanair calls 
for urgent action by the EU Commission and European governments to ameliorate the effect of ATC strikes and 
staff shortages in the UK, Germany and France from disrupting the travel plans of millions of Europe's consumers 
this summer."
Load-Date: July 17, 2018
End of Document
6-K - RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (0001038683) (Filer)
6-K - RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (0001038683) (Filer)
Newstex Blogs
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
July 3, 2018 Tuesday 12:07 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 97 words
Body
Jul 03, 2018( U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission: https://www.sec.gov Delivered by Newstex)  Filing Date 
2018-07-03 Accepted 2018-07-03 07:40:19 Documents 1 Period of Report 2018-07-03 Document Format 
Files[1][2]Mailing Address CT CORPORATION SYSTEM 1633 BROADWAY NEW YORK NY 10019 Business 
Address C/O RYANAIR LTD CORPORATE HEAD OFFICE DUBLIN AIRPORT COUNTY DUBLIN IRELAN L2 
3538444440 [ 1]: 
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1038683/000165495418007278/a3360t.htm 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1038683/000165495418007278/0001654954-18-007278.txt 
Load-Date: July 3, 2018
End of Document
Market Chatter: Ryanair and German Pilot Union to Continue Negotiations as Strike Action Looms
Market Chatter: Ryanair and German Pilot Union to Continue Negotiations as 
Strike Action Looms
MT Newswires Live Briefs
July 2, 2018 Monday 11:48 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 244 words
Body
 Irish low-cost airliner Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) and German labor union Vereinigung Cockpit have agreed to 
continue negotiations this month after talks broke down last week, Reuters reported.
Vereinigung Cockpit was the first union to carry out a threat to strike at Ryanair last year after the budget airliner 
recognized unions for the first time. The German pilots have until the end of the month to vote on whether to stage 
further walkouts. 
The union said in a statement that while airliner's management had indicated that it could make some concessions 
on the structure of its labor agreements, these should not result in an increase in staff costs. "That is in essence a 
clear rejection for VC. That will not allow for a reduction of the pressure on pilots by adding more staff nor for an 
increase in wages. We do not need a collective agreement just to keep the status quo," said Ingolf Schumacher, 
who represents the union in negotiations.
Ryanair was not immediately available to give a comment, Reuters said. 
Negotiations with pilots in Ireland and Spain, two of the company's biggest markets, have also stuttered. Pilots in 
Ireland are due to vote on July 3 on whether to stage industrial action.
(Market Chatter news is derived from conversations with market professionals globally. This information is believed 
to be from reliable sources but may include rumor and speculation. Accuracy is not guaranteed.)
Price: 113.25, Change: -0.98, Percent Change: -0.86
Load-Date: July 3, 2018
Market Chatter: Ryanair and German Pilot Union to Continue Negotiations as Strike Action Looms
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) & Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Head to Head Contrast
Ryanair (RYAAY) & Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Head to Head Contrast
American Banking and Market News
July 1, 2018 Sunday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 603 words
Body
Ryanair (NASDAQ: RYAAY) and Intl Cons Airl/S (OTCMKTS:ICAGY) are both transportation companies, but which 
is the better investment? We will contrast the two companies based on the strength of their institutional ownership, 
valuation, analyst recommendations, profitability, earnings, dividends and risk.  
Insider & Institutional Ownership
43.7% of Ryanair shares are owned by institutional investors. Comparatively, 0.1% of Intl Cons Airl/S shares are 
owned by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that endowments, hedge funds and 
large money managers believe a stock is poised for long-term growth. 
Risk & Volatility Ryanair has a beta of 0.64, suggesting that its share price is 36% less volatile than the S&P 500. 
Comparatively, Intl Cons Airl/S has a beta of 1.02, suggesting that its share price is 2% more volatile than the S&P 
500. 
Analyst Recommendations
This is a summary of current ratings for Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S, as reported by MarketBeat. 
Sell Ratings
Hold Ratings
Buy Ratings
Strong Buy 
Ratings
Rating Score
Ryanair
1
5
2
0
2.13
Intl Cons Airl/S
2
3
1
0
1.83
Profitability
This table compares Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S's net margins, return on equity and return on assets.
Net Margins
Return on Equity
Return on Assets
Ryanair
20.13%
31.73%
12.17%
Intl Cons Airl/S
12.18%
80.31%
18.11%
Dividends
Intl Cons Airl/S pays an annual dividend of $0.55 per share and has a dividend yield of 3.1%. Ryanair does not pay 
a dividend. Intl Cons Airl/S pays out 9.5% of its earnings in the form of a dividend.  
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) & Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Head to Head Contrast
Earnings & Valuation This table compares Ryanair and Intl Cons Airl/S's top-line revenue, earnings per share and 
valuation.
Gross 
Revenue
Price/Sales 
Ratio
Net Income
Earnings Per 
Share
Price/Earnings 
Ratio
Ryanair
$8.37 billion
3.20
$1.70 billion
$7.05
16.20
Intl Cons Airl/S
$25.95 billion
0.28
$2.26 billion
$5.81
3.01
Intl Cons Airl/S has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. Intl Cons Airl/S is trading at a lower price-to-
earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. 
Summary
Ryanair beats Intl Cons Airl/S on 8 of the 14 factors compared between the two stocks. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair logo Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such 
as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel 
insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In 
addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car 
parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 
737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving 
approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, 
Ireland. 
About Intl Cons Airl/S
Intl Cons Airl/S logo International Consolidated Airlines Group, S.A., together with its subsidiaries, engages in the 
provision of passenger and cargo transportation services in the United Kingdom, Spain, Ireland, the United States, 
and rest of the world. The company operates under the British Airways, Iberia, Vueling, LEVEL, IAG Cargo, Avios, 
and Aer Lingus brands. As of February 12, 2018, it operated a fleet of 547 aircraft flying to 268 destinations. The 
company was incorporated in 2010 and is based in Madrid, Spain.    
Load-Date: July 1, 2018
End of Document
Tidjane Thiam Stood up
Tidjane Thiam Stood up
Financial Times (London, England)
June 29, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 18
Length: 174 words
Byline: Patrick Jenkins
Body
Tidjane Thiam is a discerning party goer. So naturally the Credit Suisse boss flew into town for the FT's summer 
party, held on Wednesday evening at the hip Granary Square near King's Cross. He was in good company. Home 
secretary (and former Deutsche banker) Sajid Javid was there, as was business secretary Greg Clarke. Fellow 
Brexit bear, and former shadow business secretary, Chuka Umunna was urging anyone who'd listen to resist the 
inevitability of Brexit and pin our hopes on a second referendum on the deal. But for City Insider it was TT's titbits 
that cut through the cacophony. In particular the confirmation he'll use his Arsenal season ticket for the first time in 
seven years, now that ArsÈne Wenger has quit as manager. He'll be at the first game of the season against Man 
City on August 11. RBS chairman Sir Howard Davies, an ardent City fan, was to be his date, but holiday plans have 
scuppered that. Michael O'Leary, the Ryanair boss, is also a business/celeb fan. Maybe he could come - and fly TT 
back to Switzerland afterwards.
Load-Date: June 29, 2018
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Thursday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Thursday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
June 28, 2018 Thursday 11:38 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 236 words
Body
 American depositary receipts of European stocks were trading 0.07% higher at 134.15 on the Bank of New York 
Mellon Europe ADR Index on Thursday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by communications services provider  VEON (VEON), and brewing 
company AB InBev (BUD), which rose 1.1% and 0.8% respectively. They were followed by banks Banco Bilbao 
Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA), and Banco Santander (SAN), which were up 0.8% and 0.7%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by biopharmaceutical firm Biofrontera (BFRA), and semiconductor 
company STMicroelectronics (STM), which fell 9.6% and 3.5% respectively. They were followed by 
telecommunications operator Ericsson (ERIC), and network infrastructure provider Nokia (NOK), which dropped 
1.9% and 1.3%
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by biopharmaceutical companyAmarin (AMRN), and consumer goods 
company British American Tobacco (BTI), which climbed 9.5% and 4.6% respectively. They were followed by gene 
therapy company Nightstar (NITE), and biotech firm Trinity Biotech (TRIB), which were up 3.2% and 1.7%
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by biotech company Motif Bio (MTFB), and airline operator Ryanair 
(RYAAY), which lost 6.8% and 1.9% respectively. They were followed by construction materials supplier CRH 
(CRH), and insurance firm Prudential (PUK), which dropped 1.6% and 1.4%.
Price: 2.99, Change: +0.24, Percent Change: +8.55
Load-Date: June 29, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) & Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Head-To-Head Comparison
Ryanair (RYAAY) & Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Head-To-Head Comparison
American Banking and Market News
June 28, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 623 words
Body
Intl Cons Airl/S (OTCMKTS: ICAGY) and Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) are both transportation companies, but which 
is the superior business? We will compare the two companies based on the strength of their dividends, valuation, 
institutional ownership, analyst recommendations, earnings, risk and profitability.  
Earnings & Valuation This table compares Intl Cons Airl/S and Ryanair's gross revenue, earnings per share and 
valuation.
Gross 
Revenue
Price/Sales 
Ratio
Net Income
Earnings Per 
Share
Price/Earnings 
Ratio
Intl Cons Airl/S
$25.95 billion
0.28
$2.26 billion
$5.81
3.04
Ryanair
$8.37 billion
3.18
$1.70 billion
$7.05
16.12
Intl Cons Airl/S has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. Intl Cons Airl/S is trading at a lower price-to-
earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. 
Analyst Recommendations
This is a breakdown of current ratings and recommmendations for Intl Cons Airl/S and Ryanair, as provided by 
MarketBeat.com. 
Sell Ratings
Hold Ratings
Buy Ratings
Strong Buy 
Ratings
Rating Score
Intl Cons Airl/S
2
3
1
0
1.83
Ryanair
1
5
2
0
2.13
Ryanair has a consensus price target of $0.00, suggesting a potential downside of 100.00%.  
Dividends
Intl Cons Airl/S pays an annual dividend of $0.43 per share and has a dividend yield of 2.4%. Ryanair does not pay 
a dividend. Intl Cons Airl/S pays out 7.4% of its earnings in the form of a dividend.  
Risk & Volatility Intl Cons Airl/S has a beta of 1.02, suggesting that its stock price is 2% more volatile than the 
S&P 500. Comparatively, Ryanair has a beta of 0.64, suggesting that its stock price is 36% less volatile than the 
S&P 500. 
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) & Intl Cons Airl/S (ICAGY) Head-To-Head Comparison
Profitability
This table compares Intl Cons Airl/S and Ryanair's net margins, return on equity and return on assets.
Net Margins
Return on Equity
Return on Assets
Intl Cons Airl/S
12.18%
80.31%
18.11%
Ryanair
20.13%
31.73%
12.17%
Insider and Institutional Ownership
0.1% of Intl Cons Airl/S shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 43.7% of Ryanair shares are held 
by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that endowments, large money managers 
and hedge funds believe a stock is poised for long-term growth. 
Summary
Ryanair beats Intl Cons Airl/S on 8 of the 14 factors compared between the two stocks. 
About Intl Cons Airl/S
Intl Cons Airl/S logo International Consolidated Airlines Group, S.A., together with its subsidiaries, engages in the 
provision of passenger and cargo transportation services in the United Kingdom, Spain, Ireland, the United States, 
and rest of the world. The company operates under the British Airways, Iberia, Vueling, LEVEL, IAG Cargo, Avios, 
and Aer Lingus brands. As of February 12, 2018, it operated a fleet of 547 aircraft flying to 268 destinations. The 
company was incorporated in 2010 and is based in Madrid, Spain. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair logo Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such 
as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel 
insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In 
addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car 
parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 
737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving 
approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, 
Ireland.    
Load-Date: June 28, 2018
End of Document
IAG to create Level-branded new carrier with ex-Air Berlin A321s IAG is to establish a new Austrian -based 
low-cost carrier under its Level brand this summer, u....
IAG to create Level-branded new carrier with ex-Air Berlin A321s; IAG is to 
establish a new Austrian-based low-cost carrier under its Level brand this 
summer, using four Airbus A321 narrowbodies sourced from now-defunct 
Air Berlin.
Flight International
June 28, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 488 words
Body
IAG is to establish a new Austrian-based low-cost carrier under its Level brand this summer, using four Airbus A321 
narrowbodies sourced from now-defunct Air Berlin.
The European airline group says its new short-haul subsidiary will have Austrian air operator's certificate (AOC) and 
be based at Vienna airport. The four ex-Air Berlin A321s will be configured with 210 economy seats.
Operations are to begin on 17 July with flights from Vienna to Spanish island Majorca and London Gatwick. The list 
of destinations will subsequently be joined by six more in Spain – Alicante, Barcelona, Bilbao, Ibiza, Malaga and 
Valencia – plus three Italian airports: Milan Malpensa, Olbia and Venice. Paris Charles de Gaulle, Dubrovnik in 
Croatia and Cypriot resort Larnaca will also be served by the carrier.
Willie Walsh, IAG's chief executive, states: "We are launching this new short-haul subsidiary to provide Austrian 
consumers with more flight choices across Europe. These flights will be branded as Level to build upon the huge 
success of our new long haul low-cost operation."
Customers will be allowed to take one item of hand luggage on board for free, while checked-in luggage, food and 
beverages will be available for a fee, adds Walsh.
FlightGlobal schedules data shows that Lufthansa subsidiary Austrian Airlines will be a competitor on eight of the 
routes: Alicante, Dubrovnik, Ibiza, Larnaca, Milan Malpensa, Olbia, Paris CDG and Venice. Three of those 
destinations – Ibiza, Larnaca and Olbia – are also served from Vienna by another Lufthansa subsidiary, Eurowings; 
and there are additional competitors to Paris CDG (Air France and Vueling), Ibiza (Laudamotion) and Malpensa 
(EasyJet).
IAG to create Level-branded new carrier with ex-Air Berlin A321s IAG is to establish a new Austrian -based 
low-cost carrier under its Level brand this summer, u....
Level will meanwhile challenge both Eurowings and Laudamotion on the Majorca and Malaga routes, plus Vueling 
on the former one and Wizz Air on the latter. A sole rival will be faced on each of the Bilbao, Gatwick and Valencia 
routes: Volotea, EasyJet and Wizz, respectively.
To date, Level has operated as a low-cost long-haul carrier serving destinations in the USA and Latin America from 
Barcelona. The unit is preparing to begin operations from Paris Orly and will also establish a presence in Rome, 
Walsh has indicated.
Earlier this year, he disclosed that IAG was planning to pursue the Austrian market through organic growth following 
its failure to acquire Vienna-based Niki.
That carrier had been offered for sale as part of the dismantling of Air Berlin. IAG initially agreed to take over Niki 
for 20 million ($23 million), but subsequently lost out to a rival bid from the Austrian airline's founder Niki Lauda after 
a late change to the insolvency proceedings.
Ryanair subsequently acquired a 25% stake in the newly rebranded Laudamotion and intends to take its 
shareholding up to 75% pending European regulatory clearance.
This article has been updated to include the FlightGlobal schedules data quoted in the sixth and seventh 
paragraphs
Load-Date: August 22, 2018
End of Document
IAG to create Level-branded new carrier with ex-Air Berlin A321s IAG is to establish a new Austrian -based 
low-cost carrier under its Level brand this summer, u....
IAG to create Level-branded new carrier with ex-Air Berlin A321s; IAG is to 
establish a new Austrian-based low-cost carrier under its Level brand this 
summer, using four Airbus A321 narrowbodies sourced from now-defunct 
Air Berlin.
Flight International
June 28, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 486 words
Body
IAG is to establish a new Austrian-based low-cost carrier under its Level brand this summer, using four Airbus A321 
narrowbodies sourced from now-defunct Air Berlin.
The European airline group says its new short-haul subsidiary will have Austrian air operator's certificate (AOC) and 
be based at Vienna airport. The four ex-Air Berlin A321s will be configured with 210 economy seats.
Operations are to begin on 17 July with flights from Vienna to Spanish island Majorca and London Gatwick. The list 
of destinations will subsequently be joined by six more in Spain – Alicante, Barcelona, Bilbao, Ibiza, Malaga and 
Valencia – plus three Italian airports: Milan Malpensa, Olbia and Venice. Paris Charles de Gaulle, Dubrovnik in 
Croatia and Cypriot resort Larnaca will also be served by the carrier.
Willie Walsh, IAG's chief executive, states: "We are launching this new short-haul subsidiary to provide Austrian 
consumers with more flight choices across Europe. These flights will be branded as Level to build upon the huge 
success of our new long haul low-cost operation."
Customers will be allowed to take one item of hand luggage on board for free, while checked-in luggage, food and 
beverages will be available for a fee, adds Walsh.
FlightGlobal schedules data shows that Lufthansa subsidiary Austrian Airlines will be a competitor on eight of the 
routes: Alicante, Dubrovnik, Ibiza, Larnaca, Milan Malpensa, Olbia, Paris CDG and Venice. Three of those 
destinations – Ibiza, Larnaca and Olbia – are also served from Vienna by another Lufthansa subsidiary, Eurowings; 
and there are additional competitors to Paris CDG (Air France and Vueling), Ibiza (Laudamotion) and Malpensa 
(EasyJet).
IAG to create Level-branded new carrier with ex-Air Berlin A321s IAG is to establish a new Austrian -based 
low-cost carrier under its Level brand this summer, u....
Level will meanwhile challenge both Eurowings and Laudamotion on the Majorca and Malaga routes, plus Vueling 
on the former one and Wizz Air on the latter. A sole rival will be faced on each of the Bilbao, Gatwick and Valencia 
routes: Volotea, EasyJet and Wizz, respectively.
To date, Level has operated as a low-cost long-haul carrier serving destinations in the USA and Latin America from 
Barcelona. The unit is preparing to begin operations from Paris Orly and will also establish a presence in Rome, 
Walsh has indicated.
Earlier this year, he disclosed that IAG was planning to pursue the Austrian market through organic growth following 
its failure to acquire Vienna-based Niki.
That carrier had been offered for sale as part of the dismantling of Air Berlin. IAG initially agreed to take over Niki 
for 20 million ($23 million), but subsequently lost out to a rival bid from the Austrian airline's founder Niki Lauda after 
a late change to the insolvency proceedings.
Ryanair subsequently acquired a 25% stake in the newly rebranded Laudamotion and intends to take its 
shareholding up to 75% pending European regulatory clearance.
This article has been to include the FlightGlobal schedules data quoted in the sixth and seventh paragraphs
Load-Date: June 28, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair announces new weekly London Stansted ski route to/from Dole
Ryanair announces new weekly London Stansted ski route to/from Dole
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 28, 2018 Thursday 4:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 267 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced a new weekly London Stansted ski route to/from Dole, France commencing in 
December 2018.
Body
Ryanair's London Stansted Winter 2018 schedule includes 124 routes in total, with three other new routes to 
Belfast, Edinburgh and Nantes.London Stansted consumers and visitors can now enjoy even lower fares and the 
latest "Always Getting Better" improvements including:Reduced checked-in bag fees lower 25 fee, bigger 20kg bag 
allowanceConnecting flights at Rome, Milan & Porto with more airports to followRyanair Rooms with 10% off Travel 
CreditRyanair Transfers wider choice of ground transport with new partner Car TrawlerPunctuality Promise 90% of 
Ryanair flights will be on timePrice Promise find a cheaper fare and Ryanair will refund the difference + 5 to yourMy 
RyanairaccountRyanair's Robin Kiely said:"Ryanair is pleased to announce a new London Stansted to Dole route 
commencing in December 2018, which will operate once weekly as part of our Winter 2018 schedule. Customers 
can now book their trip to Dole as far out as March 2019 getting to the slopes on the lowest fares this winter.To 
celebrate, we are releasing seats for sale from London Stansted from just Â£19.99 for travel until October 2018 
which are available for booking until midnight Saturday (30 June). These seats are sure to sell quickly so customers 
should log on to Ryanair.com today to avoid missing out."London Stansted's Mark Davison said:"It's great news that 
Ryanair is adding another new service to its extensive route network already availablefrom London Stansted. 
Dole is an exciting new destination which I'm sure will prove to be very popular with passengers looking for even 
more choice when heading off to France."
Load-Date: July 12, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Upgraded at BidaskClub
Ryanair (RYAAY) Upgraded at BidaskClub
Transcript Daily
June 28, 2018 Thursday 8:26 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 714 words
Body
Jun 
28, 
2018( 
Transcript 
Daily: 
https://transcriptdaily.com 
Delivered 
by 
Newstex) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgBidaskClub[1] 
upgraded 
shares 
of 
Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) from a hold rating to a buy rating in a research report report published on Monday.Several other 
analysts have also recently weighed in on RYAAY. BNP Paribas cut shares of Ryanair from an outperform rating to 
a neutral rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. 
Zacks Investment Research[2] cut shares of Ryanair from a buy rating to a sell rating in a research note on Friday, 
April 20th. Deutsche Bank cut shares of Ryanair from a buy rating to a hold rating in a research note on Thursday, 
June 7th. Exane BNP Paribas cut shares of Ryanair from an outperform rating to a neutral rating in a research note 
on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, ValuEngine[3] cut shares of Ryanair from a buy rating to a hold rating in a research 
note on Wednesday, May 9th. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have issued a hold rating 
and three have given a buy rating to the company. Ryanair has a consensus rating of Hold and an average price 
target of $138.00.Ryanair opened at $113.64 on Monday, according to Marketbeat[4]. The stock has a market 
capitalization of $27.38 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.12 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair has a twelve month low of $101.10 
and a twelve month high of $127.61. The company has a current ratio of 1.23, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-
equity ratio of 0.79. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The 
transportation company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, beating the Zacks' consensus estimate 
of $0.25 by $0.05. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of 
$1.56 billion. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. research analysts anticipate 
that Ryanair will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year. Several hedge funds have recently made 
changes to their positions in RYAAY. Renaissance Technologies LLC lifted its position in shares of Ryanair by 
28.6% during the fourth quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC now owns 3,473,819 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $361,937,000 after purchasing an additional 772,300 shares in the last quarter. 
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA lifted its position in shares of Ryanair by 53.3% during the first quarter. 
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,217,338 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$272,400,000 after purchasing an additional 770,774 shares in the last quarter. FIL Ltd lifted its position in shares of 
Ryanair by 659.3% during the first quarter. FIL Ltd now owns 575,221 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $70,665,000 after purchasing an additional 499,469 shares in the last quarter. Thornburg Investment 
Management Inc. lifted its position in shares of Ryanair by 20.4% during the first quarter. Thornburg Investment 
Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $242,499,000 after 
purchasing an additional 334,623 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Lazard Asset Management LLC lifted its 
position in shares of Ryanair by 12.6% during the fourth quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Upgraded at BidaskClub
2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $302,744,000 after purchasing an additional 325,932 
shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors own 43.69% of the company's stock. About RyanairRyanair 
Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. [ 1]: 
http://bidaskclub.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 3]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
Load-Date: June 28, 2018
End of Document
Aer Lingus owner IAG expands Level into short-haul with Austrian unit
Aer Lingus owner IAG expands Level into short-haul with Austrian unit
Business World (Digest)
June 28, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 136 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Aer Lingus-owner IAG is expanding its new Level airline into short-haul routes, setting up a new Austrian unit which 
will provide low-cost flights between Vienna and destinations in Europe.
Level was established by IAG last year to focus on providing low-cost long-haul flights. IAG said on Thursday that 
the brand would be expanded into the short-haul market where it will compete with No.1 and No.2 low-cost airlines 
Ryanair and easyJet.
"We are launching this new shorthaul subsidiary to provide Austrian consumers with more flight choices across 
Europe," CEO Willie Walsh said in a statement.
Level will start flying on July 17 with flights between Vienna and Palma, Majorca and London Gatwick.
IAG already has a short-haul, low-cost carrier in Vueling, a Spain-based subsidiary. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 24, 2018
End of Document
Norway sells remaining stake in Scandinavian carrier SAS
Norway sells remaining stake in Scandinavian carrier SAS
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
June 27, 2018 Wednesday 11:24 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 243 words
Byline: Lennart Simonsson in Stockholm
Dateline: Stockholm (dpa) - 
Body
The government of Norway said on Wednesday it has sold its remaining shares in Scandinavian airline SAS, 
ending its seven-decade long interest in the firm.
The Norwegian Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fisheries said the sale of Norway's almost 10-per-cent-stake was 
worth about 597 million kroner (73 million dollars).
Prior to the sale, conducted in an auction late Tuesday, the Norwegian state was the third-largest shareholder in the 
carrier, formed in 1946.
"The government has long stated that it was not a long-term owner of SAS. Parliament has on several occasions 
authorized the government to sell off its holdings," Torbjorn Roe Isaken, minister of trade and industry said in a 
statement.
Buyers included investors from Norway and other countries, the ministry said.
"SAS has recently had a positive development, and I believe firmly that the company will continue to work to 
improve its competitive edge," the minister added.
Other main owners include the governments of Denmark and Sweden, which, together, own 29 per cent in SAS.
Sweden has also said it was open to sell its stake, but Danish Finance Minister Kristian Jensen said in a comment 
Wednesday to Danish news agency Ritzau that Denmark had no immediate plans to sell.
SAS has, in recent years, experienced increased competition from  low-cost carriers such as Norwegian Air Shuttle, 
Ryanair and Wizzair.
Norway sells remaining stake in Scandinavian carrier SAS
Editorial contactsEditing by: Niels C Sorrells, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: June 28, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Stake Lowered by Cubist Systematic Strategies LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Stake Lowered by Cubist Systematic 
Strategies LLC
Watchlist News
June 27, 2018 Wednesday 10:41 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 652 words
Body
Jun 27, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Cubist Systematic Strategies 
LLC trimmed its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 31.9% during the 1st quarter, 
according to its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The firm owned 5,348 
shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 2,500 shares during the period. Cubist Systematic 
Strategies LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $657,000 at the end of the most recent reporting period. Several 
other hedge funds have also recently made changes to their positions in the company. 
LPL Financial LLC raised its position in shares of Ryanair by 56.0% during the 1st quarter. LPL Financial LLC now 
owns 6,586 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $809,000 after purchasing an additional 2,365 
shares during the period. Natixis bought a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 1st quarter valued at 
$1,229,000. A.R.T. Advisors LLC increased its holdings in Ryanair by 29.5% in the 1st quarter. A.R.T. Advisors LLC 
now owns 18,435 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $2,264,000 after acquiring an additional 
4,200 shares during the last quarter. Perigon Wealth Management LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair in the 1st 
quarter valued at $254,000. Finally, UBS Group AG increased its holdings in Ryanair by 40.1% in the 1st quarter. 
UBS Group AG now owns 35,105 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $4,313,000 after 
acquiring an additional 10,041 shares during the last quarter. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 
43.69% of the company's stock. RYAAY has been the topic of a number of research reports. Zacks Investment 
Research[1] upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target on the 
stock in a report on Thursday, March 29th. BidaskClub downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to 
a "buy" rating in a report on Monday, May 14th. Deutsche Bank downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating 
to a "hold" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, Exane BNP Paribas downgraded shares of Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Three research analysts have 
rated the stock with a sell rating, six have assigned a hold rating and three have assigned a buy rating to the 
company. Ryanair presently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and a consensus price target of $138.00.Ryanair 
opened at $116.23 on Wednesday, MarketBeat.com[2] reports. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of 
$101.10 and a 12 month high of $127.61. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 
and a quick ratio of 1.23. The stock has a market cap of $27.50 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.49 and a beta of 0.64. 
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair 
had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion during the 
quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. research analysts expect that Ryanair Holdings plc will 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Stake Lowered by Cubist Systematic Strategies LLC
post 7.08 earnings per share for the current year. Ryanair ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, 
provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and 
Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; 
and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight 
sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. [ 1]: http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 2]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
Load-Date: June 27, 2018
End of Document
Norway sells remaining stake in Scandinavian carrier SAS
Norway sells remaining stake in Scandinavian carrier SAS
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
June 27, 2018 Wednesday 11:25 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 238 words
Body
       STOCKHOLM (dpa-AFX) - The government of Norway said on Wednesday it has sold its remaining shares in 
Scandinavian airline SAS, ending its seven-decade long interest in the firm.  The Norwegian Ministry of Trade, 
Industry and Fisheries said the sale of Norway's almost 10-per-cent-stake was worth about 597 million kroner (73 
million dollars).  Prior to the sale, conducted in an auction late Tuesday, the Norwegian state was the third-largest 
shareholder in the carrier, formed in 1946.  'The government has long stated that it was not a long-term owner of 
SAS. 
Parliament has on several occasions authorized the government to sell off its holdings,' Torbjorn Roe Isaken, 
minister of trade and industry said in a statement.  Buyers included investors from Norway and other countries, the 
ministry said.  'SAS has recently had a positive development, and I believe firmly that the company will continue to 
work to improve its competitive edge,' the minister added.  Other main owners include the governments of Denmark 
and Sweden, which, together, own 29 per cent in SAS.  Sweden has also said it was open to sell its stake, but 
Danish Finance Minister Kristian Jensen said in a comment Wednesday to Danish news agency Ritzau that 
Denmark had no immediate plans to sell.  SAS has, in recent years, experienced increased competition from  low-
cost carriers such as Norwegian Air Shuttle, Ryanair and Wizzair.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: June 27, 2018
End of Document
BlackRock Inc. Has $120.31 Million Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
BlackRock Inc. Has $120.31 Million Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
June 27, 2018 Wednesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 624 words
Body
Ryanair logo BlackRock Inc. boosted its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 0.6% in the first 
quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The 
firm owned 979,342 shares of the transportation company's stock after purchasing an additional 5,935 shares 
during the period. BlackRock Inc. owned approximately 0.42% of Ryanair worth $120,313,000 at the end of the 
most recent quarter.  
Other large investors also recently bought and sold shares of the company. US Bancorp DE grew its position in  
Ryanair by 168.2% in the 4th quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $122,000 after purchasing an additional 735 shares during the period.  Assetmark Inc. grew its position 
in  Ryanair by 64.0% in the 4th quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $138,000 after purchasing an additional 516 shares during the period.  Tower Research Capital LLC 
TRC bought a new stake in  Ryanair in the 4th quarter worth approximately $148,000.  Elkfork Partners LLC bought 
a new stake in  Ryanair in the 4th quarter worth approximately $166,000.  Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA grew its 
position in  Ryanair by 2,506.9% in the 4th quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $195,000 after purchasing an additional 1,805 shares during the period. 
43.69% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Shares of RYAAY stock  opened at $116.23 on Wednesday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $101.10 and 
a 1 year high of $127.61. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 
0.79. The firm has a market cap of $27.50 billion, a PE ratio of 16.49 and a beta of 0.64.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, beating analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 
by $0.05. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. The firm had revenue of $1.62 
billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion.  sell-side analysts forecast that  
Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
RYAAY has been the subject of a number of recent research reports. BidaskClub downgraded shares of Ryanair 
from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Thursday, March 1st. Zacks Investment 
Research  raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price objective for the 
company in a research report on Thursday, March 29th.            ValuEngine  downgraded shares of Ryanair from a 
"buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank  reissued a 
BlackRock Inc. Has $120.31 Million Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
"buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, May 22nd. Three investment analysts have 
rated the stock with a sell rating, six have issued  a hold rating and three have assigned  a buy rating to the 
company. Ryanair  has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average target price of $138.00. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 27, 2018
End of Document
Investment Analysts' Recent Ratings Changes for Ryanair ( RYAAY )
Investment Analysts' Recent Ratings Changes for Ryanair (RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
June 26, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 650 words
Body
Ryanair logo Several analysts have recently updated their ratings and price targets for Ryanair (NASDAQ: 
RYAAY): 
•
6/25/2018 - Ryanair  was upgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating.
•
6/19/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating.
•
6/7/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at Exane BNP Paribas from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating.
•
6/7/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at BNP Paribas from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" 
rating.
•
6/7/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at Deutsche Bank AG from a "buy" rating to a "hold" 
rating.
•
6/1/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating.
•
5/25/2018 - Ryanair  was upgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a "buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating.
•
5/22/2018 - Ryanair  had its "buy" rating reaffirmed by analysts at Deutsche Bank AG.
•
5/14/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" 
rating.
•
5/9/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at ValuEngine  from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating.
NASDAQ RYAAY  traded down $1.04 during trading on Tuesday, hitting $115.87. 3,468 shares of the company 
traded hands, compared to its average volume of 314,852. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $101.10 
and a 12 month high of $127.61. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a quick 
ratio of 1.23. The firm has a market cap of $27.50 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.44 and a beta of 0.64.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, beating the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $0.25 by 
$0.05. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion. 
Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%.  equities analysts expect that  Ryanair 
Holdings plc will post 7.08 EPS for the current year.  
Investment Analysts' Recent Ratings Changes for Ryanair ( RYAAY )
Several large investors have recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. US Bancorp DE grew its position in shares 
of  Ryanair by 168.2% in the fourth quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $122,000 after purchasing an additional 735 shares during the last quarter.  Wells Fargo 
& Company MN grew its position in shares of  Ryanair by 14.8% in the fourth quarter. Wells Fargo & Company MN 
now owns 388,643 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $40,493,000 after purchasing an 
additional 50,027 shares during the last quarter.  The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company grew its position in 
shares of  Ryanair by 12.5% in the fourth quarter. The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company now owns 18,959 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,974,000 after purchasing an additional 2,108 shares 
during the last quarter.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp grew its position in shares of  Ryanair by 2.8% in the fourth 
quarter. Bank of New York Mellon Corp now owns 139,612 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$14,547,000 after purchasing an additional 3,774 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Tower Research Capital 
LLC TRC acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair in the fourth quarter valued at about $148,000. 43.69% of the 
stock is currently owned by institutional investors.  
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Load-Date: June 26, 2018
End of Document
Analysts' Updated EPS Estimates for June, 25th (ABBN, ACOR, AGNC, AIMT, AMPH, BIIB, DAI, DMRC, 
EQIX, HBH)
Analysts' Updated EPS Estimates for June, 25th (ABBN, ACOR, AGNC, 
AIMT, AMPH, BIIB, DAI, DMRC, EQIX, HBH)
American Banking and Market News
June 25, 2018 Monday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 394 words
Body
Analysts' updated eps estimates for Monday, June 25th: 
ABB (VTX:ABBN) was given a CHF 32 target price by analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The firm currently 
has a buy rating on the stock.  
Acorda Therapeutics (NASDAQ:ACOR) was downgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a strong-buy rating to a 
buy rating.  
AGNC Investment (NASDAQ:AGNC) was upgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a sell rating to a hold rating.  
Aimmune Therapeutics (NASDAQ:AIMT) was downgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a hold rating to a sell 
rating.  
Amphastar Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ:AMPH) was downgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a buy rating to 
a hold rating.  
Biogen (NASDAQ:BIIB) was upgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a hold rating to a buy rating.  
Daimler (ETR:DAI) was given a  72.00 ($83.72) target price by analysts at Morgan Stanley. The firm currently has 
a neutral rating on the stock.  
Digimarc (NASDAQ:DMRC) was downgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a buy rating to a hold rating.  
Equinix (NASDAQ:EQIX) was upgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a hold rating to a buy rating.  
HORNBACH Holding AG & Co. KGaA (ETR:HBH) was given a  66.50 ($77.33) target price by analysts at 
Commerzbank AG. The firm currently has a neutral rating on the stock.  
Hurco Companies (NASDAQ:HURC) was upgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a strong sell rating to a sell 
rating.  
Hawkins (NASDAQ:HWKN) was downgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a buy rating to a hold rating.  
Analysts' Updated EPS Estimates for June, 25th (ABBN, ACOR, AGNC, AIMT, AMPH, BIIB, DAI, DMRC, 
EQIX, HBH)
Michaels Companies (NASDAQ:MIK) was upgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a hold rating to a buy rating.  
Playa Hotels & Resorts (NASDAQ:PLYA) was upgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a sell rating to a hold 
rating.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was upgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a hold rating to a buy rating.  
K&S (ETR:SDF) was given a  28.00 ($32.56) target price by analysts at Commerzbank AG. The firm currently has 
a buy rating on the stock.  
Schneider Electric (EPA:SU) was given a  83.00 ($96.51) target price by analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
The firm currently has a neutral rating on the stock.  
Suedzucker (ETR:SZU) was given a  11.00 ($12.79) price target by analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The 
firm currently has a sell rating on the stock.  
Utah Medical Products (NASDAQ:UTMD) was upgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a buy rating to a strong-
buy rating.   
Load-Date: June 25, 2018
End of Document
Dacia Sandero tops Europe private retail sales chart
Dacia Sandero tops Europe private retail sales chart
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 25, 2018 Monday 11:21 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE
Length: 286 words
Highlight: What car sold the most to private, retail customers across Europe last year? Would you believe the 
Dacia Sandero with more than a quarter of a million sales into that sector?
Body
It's a testament to a Smart Buy strategy mirroring the success of brands such as Aldi, Lidl, Ikea, Ryanair and Hotel 
F1. It's a strategy aimed at taking the Renault-owned brand from 655,000 sales last year to 2m by the early 2020s. 
Sylvain Coursimault, global marketing manager for Dacia said: "It's not a question of low cost, it is about defining 
the customer's expectations. People who use the brands mentioned are not looking for something cheap, they want 
quality as well, and none of these disappoint. "Private buyers seeking a new car cannot follow the trends in the 
business or fleet markets. 
If you look at the past 15 years, cars in all segments have grown by 15cm, they are 160kg heavier, 25hp more 
powerful and EUR8,000 more expensive - you can buy a brand new Sandero for EUR8,000. It's about offering 
attractive, quality cars at the best price and is a unique business model in the automotive industry." In 1999, then 
Renault chairman Louis Schweitzer sealed the deal to purchase a majority stake in Dacia from the Romanian 
government. The aim was to build a global model priced at just EUR5,000 new. That came to fruition in 2004 with 
the launch of the Logan - since then the brand has sold 10m cars in 44 countries and now has assembly operations 
in places such as Russia, Morocco, Turkey, India and Brazil. In 2017, Dacia sold 655,000 models around the world 
- under both its own and the Renault brands. The aim in to reach 2m sales annually by the early 2020s. Since 
Logan, the line up has been expanded with model variants plus new nameplates: Sandero and Duster, the Kwid 
built for India and Latin America and the Kaptur, a re-worked version of the Renault Captur sold mainly in Russia 
and India.
Load-Date: April 4, 2019
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Rating Increased to Buy at BidaskClub
Ryanair (RYAAY) Rating Increased to Buy at BidaskClub
DailyPolitical
June 25, 2018 Monday 6:36 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 637 words
Body
Jun 24, 2018( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was 
upgraded by stock analysts at BidaskClub[1] from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note issued on 
Monday.Several other research analysts have also commented on RYAAY. Exane BNP Paribas lowered shares of 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas 
lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 
7th. 
Deutsche Bank reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. 
ValuEngine[2] lowered shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Wednesday, 
May 9th. Finally, Zacks Investment Research[3] lowered shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "sell" rating in a 
research note on Friday, April 20th. Three equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six 
have given a hold rating and three have assigned a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair presently has an 
average rating of "Hold" and a consensus target price of $110.50.NASDAQ RYAAY[4] opened at $117.42 on 
Monday. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. The firm 
has a market cap of $27.74 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.65 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair has a 52 week low 
of $101.10 and a 52 week high of $127.61. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on 
Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping the consensus 
estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst 
estimates of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. analysts predict 
that Ryanair will post 7.08 EPS for the current fiscal year. Large investors have recently added to or reduced their 
stakes in the company. US Bancorp DE lifted its position in shares of Ryanair by 168.2% during the fourth quarter. 
US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $122,000 after purchasing an 
additional 735 shares during the last quarter. Assetmark Inc. lifted its position in shares of Ryanair by 64.0% during 
the fourth quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $138,000 
after purchasing an additional 516 shares during the last quarter. Tower Research Capital LLC TRC bought a new 
stake in shares of Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth $148,000. Elkfork Partners LLC bought a new stake in 
shares of Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth $166,000. Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA lifted its position in 
shares of Ryanair by 2,506.9% during the fourth quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $195,000 after purchasing an additional 1,805 shares during the last quarter. 
Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.69% of the company's stock. Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair 
Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Rating Increased to Buy at BidaskClub
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. [ 1]: 
http://bidaskclub.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
Load-Date: June 25, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian to start new Gatwick to Florida service this winter
Norwegian to start new Gatwick to Florida service this winter
City A.M.
June 25, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 107 words
Byline: CALLUM BANKS
Body
LOW-COST airline Norwegian has launched a new route to Florida and boosted its winter flights schedule amid a 
potential takeover.
Europe's third-largest low-cost airline behind Ryanair and Easyjet has announced a new twice weekly service from 
London Gatwick to Tampa.
The airline's services to Las Vegas, Miami, Orlando and Boston will also all become more frequent with extra flights 
from 31 October. Its London Gatwick to Buenos Aires route would also be increased from four flights a week to 
become a daily service.
The second-largest long-haul airline at Gatwick, Norwegian will serve 11 routes to the US this winter, including the 
Tampa service.
Graphic
 
Tampa is on Florida's Gulf Coast and is the third largest city in the state
Load-Date: June 25, 2018
Norwegian to start new Gatwick to Florida service this winter
End of Document
Natixis Takes Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Natixis Takes Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
June 24, 2018 Sunday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 691 words
Body
Ryanair logo Natixis acquired a new stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) in the 1st quarter, according 
to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The fund acquired 10,000 
shares of the transportation company's stock, valued at approximately $1,229,000.  
A number of other hedge funds also recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. Renaissance 
Technologies LLC increased its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 28.6% during the fourth quarter. Renaissance 
Technologies LLC now owns 3,473,819 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $361,937,000 after 
buying an additional 772,300 shares during the period.  Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA increased its 
stake in shares of  Ryanair by 53.3% during the first quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 
2,217,338 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $272,400,000 after buying an additional 770,774 
shares during the period.  FIL Ltd increased its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 659.3% during the first quarter. FIL 
Ltd now owns 575,221 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $70,665,000 after buying an 
additional 499,469 shares during the period.  Thornburg Investment Management Inc. increased its stake in shares 
of  Ryanair by 20.4% during the first quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $242,499,000 after buying an additional 334,623 shares during the 
period.  Finally, Lazard Asset Management LLC increased its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 12.6% during the fourth 
quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock valued 
at $302,744,000 after buying an additional 325,932 shares during the period. Hedge funds and other institutional 
investors own  43.69% of the company's stock.  
Several research firms have recently issued reports on RYAAY. BidaskClub cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a 
"hold" rating in a research note on Tuesday, June 19th. BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Exane BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Deutsche Bank  reaffirmed a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. Finally, ValuEngine  cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to 
a "hold" rating in a research note on Wednesday, May 9th. Three research analysts have rated the stock with a sell 
rating, seven have issued  a hold rating and two have assigned  a buy rating to the company. Ryanair currently has 
a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average price target of $110.50. 
Shares of RYAAY stock  opened at $117.42 on Friday. The firm has a market capitalization of $27.74 billion, a P/E 
ratio of 16.65 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair Holdings plc has a twelve month low of $101.10 and a twelve month high 
of $127.61. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a current ratio of 1.23.  
Natixis Takes Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, topping the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of 
$0.25 by $0.05. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of 
$1.56 billion. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%.  equities analysts anticipate 
that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 24, 2018
End of Document
Natixis Takes $1.23 Million Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Natixis Takes $1.23 Million Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Transcript Daily
June 24, 2018 Sunday 2:31 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 705 words
Body
Jun 24, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Natixis purchased a new position 
in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the 1st quarter, HoldingsChannel[1] reports. The fund purchased 
10,000 shares of the transportation company's stock, valued at approximately $1,229,000. A number of other hedge 
funds have also recently modified their holdings of the stock. Comerica Bank grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 
6.5% in the fourth quarter. 
Comerica Bank now owns 14,708 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,797,000 after acquiring an 
additional 894 shares during the last quarter. US Bancorp DE grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 168.2% in the 
fourth quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $122,000 after 
acquiring an additional 735 shares during the last quarter. Wells Fargo ...mpany MN grew its stake in shares of 
Ryanair by 14.8% in the fourth quarter. Wells Fargo ...mpany MN now owns 388,643 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $40,493,000 after acquiring an additional 50,027 shares during the last quarter. The 
Manufacturers Life Insurance Company grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 12.5% in the fourth quarter. The 
Manufacturers Life Insurance Company now owns 18,959 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,974,000 after acquiring an additional 2,108 shares during the last quarter. Finally, D.A. Davidson .... purchased a 
new stake in shares of Ryanair in the fourth quarter worth $341,000. 43.69% of the stock is currently owned by 
institutional investors. A number of research firms have recently commented on RYAAY. BNP Paribas cut Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Deutsche Bank 
downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Zacks Investment 
Research[2] downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "sell" rating in a report on Friday, April 20th. BidaskClub 
downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Tuesday, June 19th. Finally, Exane BNP 
Paribas downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. 
Three equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, seven have issued a hold rating and two 
have given a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock has an average rating of "Hold" and an average price 
target of $110.50.Shares of Ryanair opened at $117.42 on Friday, MarketBeat Ratings[3] reports. The firm has a 
market cap of $27.74 billion, a PE ratio of 16.65 and a beta of 0.64. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, 
a quick ratio of 1.23 and a current ratio of 1.23. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $101.10 and a 1 year high 
of $127.61. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The 
transportation company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, beating analysts' consensus 
estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus 
estimate of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. research analysts 
predict that Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year. Ryanair ProfileRyanair 
Natixis Takes $1.23 Million Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.Want to see what 
other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades 
for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). [ 1]: http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 3]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 4]:       
     https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
Load-Date: June 24, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle; Having helped the carrier out 
of bankruptcy to become a pioneer of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a 
potential takeover
Financial Times (London, England)
June 23, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, Middle East Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 1367 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO ;RICHARD MILNE
Body
Bjorn Kjos was in quite some trouble. He was a paratrooper on a training jump when the line of his parachute 
became tangled. His reserve chute would not open. With only seconds left till he hit the ground, he managed to free 
the line and landed shortly afterwards. That was 1967.
Fast-forward to 2018, and the 71-yearold chief executive of Norwegian Air Shuttle faces another test of his 
sangfroid. The airline he helped out of bankruptcy a quarter of a century ago to become the pioneer of low-cost 
longhaul air travel finds itself fought over by some of the biggest names of the industry in what could be a fractious 
takeover tussle.
Lufthansa and the owner of British Airways have both talked about buying Norwegian, Europe's third-largest 
lowcost airline behind Ryanair and easyJet. Mr Kjos has said Ryanair has looked at making a bid but Michael 
O'Leary, its combative chief executive, has denied any interest.
"Either Michael O'Leary or I have a bad memory. I know who it is," added Mr Kjos, talking to the Financial Times on 
a train from Brussels to Paris.
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Mr O'Leary, as well as some analysts and investors, have even suggested lossmaking Norwegian could go bust 
soon due to a stretched balance sheet and too fast expansion.
In five years, it has gone from 68 aircraft flying 330 routes to 145 planes last year on 512 legs. Worryingly for a 
lowcost airline, its unit costs have been increasing, ending last year up 7 per cent over 2016.
Long accustomed to the role of underdog - Mr Kjos was born weighing just 600 grammes while his twin brother was 
five times that - the Norwegian chief executive dismisses talk of the airline failing. "That's exactly the statement 
they've made for 15 years," he said.
Aeroplanes have played a central role in Mr Kjos's life. His father, a farmer in countryside surrounded by mountains 
about 80km north-west of Oslo, started a side business using a small aircraft to take pictures of other farms from 
the air. His children caught the air bug with Jon, Bjorn's twin, becoming a pilot for local airline Wideroe.
Bjorn himself took a more adrenalinfilled route, leaving paratrooper training to become a jet fighter pilot on models 
such as the F-5 and F-104.
Based in Bodo inside the Arctic Circle, at the height of the cold war in the early 1970s, he remembered "intercepting 
Russian aircraft when they approached the Norwegian border". His time there served as inspiration for spy thriller 
Murmanskaffaeren, which he wrote in 2006 when boss of the airline about a Soviet agent charged with blowing up a 
Norwegian fighter jet.
His dislike of, and fierce competition with, Scandinavian flag carrier SAS may well stem from its decision to turn him 
down as a pilot in the 1970s. He became a lawyer and later on a judge but did not entirely lose contact with airlines 
- his wife, who he met while hunting for grouse, was an air hostess with SAS for more than three decades.
His return to the airline industry was almost accidental - some friends in 1992 needed money to rescue a small 
airline known as Busy Bee from bankruptcy, and he became the biggest owner and chairman for the carrier that 
was soon given the name of Norwegian.
A decade later, SAS took over Norwegian's main business partner and the future looked bleak for the tiny airline 
that had just six propeller planes for domestic flights.
Instead, Mr Kjos went all in and became chief executive in 2002, aiming to transform Norwegian into Scandinavia's 
low-cost airline by using Boeing's 737 aircraft. He succeeded, outflanking SAS on costs and marketing before 
placing one of the industry's largest orders - for 222 planes - in 2012 and launching a long-haul business that sees 
Norwegian today fly to the US, Argentina, Thailand and Singapore, as well as all around Europe.
Mr Kjos is no mere chief executive. Together with his law school friend and chairman of Norwegian, Bjorn Kise, he 
owns 27 per cent of the airline making a friendly deal - something Willie Walsh of BA owner IAG has said is a must - 
all but impossible to do without him.
He has been clear in the past that he does not want to sell. But his response today appears more open. "My 
obligation is to run Norwegian as the CEO. If the board or the shareholders decide to sell, I will listen carefully to 
them, of course," he said.
Partly, this reflects the public interest in Norwegian. Carsten Spohr, chief executive of Lufthansa, told Süddeutsche 
Zeitung on Monday: "Everybody in Europe is talking to everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation. 
This means that we are also in contact with Norwegian."
That follows the news in April that IAG had taken a 4.6 per cent stake in Norwegian and wanted to buy it all. 
Norwegian has said it has turned down two approaches from IAG but Mr Walsh has said he will not enter a bidding 
war for it. Mr Kjos has also talked up the interest from other, unnamed airlines.
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Mr Kjos cast a critical eye over both IAG and Lufthansa even if he conceded a deal would be good for either of 
them. IAG, owner of Iberia and Aer Lingus too, has the greater route overlap, while it is not clear what Lufthansa's 
strategy is for its own low-cost airline Eurowings, according to Norwegian's chief executive.
The circling of rivals has rescued Norwegian's share price, which has risen by 50 per cent to NKr269 since IAG 
confirmed its interest, giving it an equity value of NKr12bn ($1.5bn). Much of Norwegian's appeal lies in its still 
expanding long-haul business, the most lucrative part of Lufthansa's and BA's model.
But as the airline has struggled to turn its losses into profits even with the best conditions for the industry in a 
decade, doubts are growing over the company's future, particularly as troubles for the carrier could be about to 
increase.
Fuel prices are rising while Rolls-Royce has said there are problems with the engines that are due to power the 
Boeing 787 Dreamliners that Norwegian is buying.
Cancellations due to faulty aircraft last year cost Norwegian tens of millions of dollars and lots of bad headlines as 
passengers were often stranded in airports for hours if not days.
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said: "If you're a holder, you need to sell. If you can short the stock, short the 
stock." A second analyst, who did not want to be named, is blunter: Norwegian could "go bust in the autumn". Mr 
Kjos is sanguine about the difficulties. He argued that a fleet of fuel-efficient aircraft was the "best hedge" against 
higher oil prices and that Norwegian should be able to recover some of its costs from Rolls-Royce.
The airline is shoring up its balance sheet with a private placement of up to NKr1.3bn as well as the divestment of 
as many as 140 of its aircraft and the possible sale of its rewards programme. Mr Kjos also stressed that the 
interest rate on the company's debt was extremely low. But Norwegian's financial woes are a big reason rivals are 
preparing to swoop.
A senior banker in Oslo said: "Norwegian had a great idea but you can question the execution. I think BA and the 
others think they can smell blood in the water."
Saving a bundle Business model was ahead of curve Norwegian has been a pioneer in the unbundling of the airline 
industry's business model, Bernstein analyst Daniel Roeska says.
Unbundling separates low-margin seat fares from more profitable options like in-flight meals, rental cars and hotel 
rooms. A NKr1,200 ((EURO)128) flight to Miami would cost NKr1,700 with an upgrade including on-board meals, 
checked bag and reserved seat.
That is partly why chief Bjorn Kjos believes Norwegian's transatlantic routes will be profitable by next year, even 
though Mr Roeska estimates each flight costs the airline (EURO)20,000-(EURO)25,000, or (EURO)300m-
(EURO)400m per year.
But the analyst voiced doubt about any deal, given that IAG could not alter Norwegian's routes to fit its strategy until 
summer 2019. "Who will put himself into the situation of ... having a very tangible risk of the airline disappearing or 
needing major cash infusions until we get to that point?" High flying
'Everybody in Europe is talking to everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation'
'If you're a holder, you need to sell. If you can short the stock, short the stock'
Graphic
 
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Future in the air: the airline has struggled to turn losses into profits, but chief executive Bjorn Kjos, below, remains 
sanguine - Christopher Milligan/Alamy/Wiktor Dabkowski
Load-Date: June 22, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle; Having helped the carrier out 
of bankruptcy to become a pioneer of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a 
potential takeover
Financial Times (London, England)
June 23, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 10
Length: 1367 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO ;RICHARD MILNE
Body
Bjorn Kjos was in quite some trouble. He was a paratrooper on a training jump when the line of his parachute 
became tangled. His reserve chute would not open. With only seconds left till he hit the ground, he managed to free 
the line and landed shortly afterwards. That was 1967.
Fast-forward to 2018, and the 71-yearold chief executive of Norwegian Air Shuttle faces another test of his 
sangfroid. The airline he helped out of bankruptcy a quarter of a century ago to become the pioneer of low-cost 
longhaul air travel finds itself fought over by some of the biggest names of the industry in what could be a fractious 
takeover tussle.
Lufthansa and the owner of British Airways have both talked about buying Norwegian, Europe's third-largest 
lowcost airline behind Ryanair and easyJet. Mr Kjos has said Ryanair has looked at making a bid but Michael 
O'Leary, its combative chief executive, has denied any interest.
"Either Michael O'Leary or I have a bad memory. I know who it is," added Mr Kjos, talking to the Financial Times on 
a train from Brussels to Paris.
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Mr O'Leary, as well as some analysts and investors, have even suggested lossmaking Norwegian could go bust 
soon due to a stretched balance sheet and too fast expansion.
In five years, it has gone from 68 aircraft flying 330 routes to 145 planes last year on 512 legs. Worryingly for a 
lowcost airline, its unit costs have been increasing, ending last year up 7 per cent over 2016.
Long accustomed to the role of underdog - Mr Kjos was born weighing just 600 grammes while his twin brother was 
five times that - the Norwegian chief executive dismisses talk of the airline failing. "That's exactly the statement 
they've made for 15 years," he said.
Aeroplanes have played a central role in Mr Kjos's life. His father, a farmer in countryside surrounded by mountains 
about 80km north-west of Oslo, started a side business using a small aircraft to take pictures of other farms from 
the air. His children caught the air bug with Jon, Bjorn's twin, becoming a pilot for local airline Wideroe.
Bjorn himself took a more adrenalinfilled route, leaving paratrooper training to become a jet fighter pilot on models 
such as the F-5 and F-104.
Based in Bodo inside the Arctic Circle, at the height of the cold war in the early 1970s, he remembered "intercepting 
Russian aircraft when they approached Norwegian has been a pioneer in the unbundling of the airline industry's 
business model, Bernstein analyst Daniel Roeska says.
Unbundling separates low-margin seat fares from more profitable options like in-flight meals, rental cars and hotel 
rooms. A NKr1,200 ((EURO)128) flight to Miami would cost NKr1,700 with an upgrade including on-board meals, 
checked bag and reserved seat.
That is partly why chief Bjorn Kjos believes Norwegian's transatlantic routes will be profitable by next year, even 
though Mr Roeska estimates each flight costs the airline (EURO)20,000-(EURO)25,000, or (EURO)300m-
(EURO)400m per year.
But the analyst voiced doubt about any deal, given that IAG could not alter Norwegian's routes to fit its strategy until 
summer 2019. "Who will put himself into the situation of ... having a very tangible risk of the airline disappearing or 
needing major cash infusions until we get to that point?" the Norwegian border". His time there served as inspiration 
for spy thriller Murmanskaffaeren, which he wrote in 2006 when boss of the airline about a Soviet agent charged 
with blowing up a Norwegian fighter jet.
His dislike of, and fierce competition with, Scandinavian flag carrier SAS may well stem from its decision to turn him 
down as a pilot in the 1970s. He became a lawyer and later on a judge but did not entirely lose contact with airlines 
- his wife, who he met while hunting for grouse, was an air hostess with SAS for more than three decades.
His return to the airline industry was almost accidental - some friends in 1992 needed money to rescue a small 
airline known as Busy Bee from bankruptcy, and he became the biggest owner and chairman for the carrier that 
was soon given the name of Norwegian.
A decade later, SAS took over Norwegian's main business partner and the future looked bleak for the tiny airline 
that had just six propeller planes for domestic flights.
Instead, Mr Kjos went all in and became chief executive in 2002, aiming to transform Norwegian into Scandinavia's 
low-cost airline by using Boeing's 737 aircraft. He succeeded, outflanking SAS on costs and marketing before 
placing one of the industry's largest orders - for 222 planes - in 2012 and launching a long-haul business that sees 
Norwegian today fly to the US, Argentina, Thailand and Singapore, as well as all around Europe.
Mr Kjos is no mere chief executive. Together with his law school friend and chairman of Norwegian, Bjorn Kise, he 
owns 27 per cent of the airline making a friendly deal - something Willie Walsh of BA owner IAG has said is a must - 
all but impossible to do without him.
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
He has been clear in the past that he does not want to sell. But his response today appears more open. "My 
obligation is to run Norwegian as the CEO. If the board or the shareholders decide to sell, I will listen carefully to 
them, of course," he said.
Partly, this reflects the public interest in Norwegian. Carsten Spohr, chief executive of Lufthansa, told Süddeutsche 
Zeitung on Monday: "Everybody in Europe is talking to everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation. 
This means that we are also in contact with Norwegian."
That follows the news in April that IAG had taken a 4.6 per cent stake in Norwegian and wanted to buy it all. 
Norwegian has said it has turned down two approaches from IAG but Mr Walsh has said he will not enter a bidding 
war for it. Mr Kjos has also talked up the interest from other, unnamed airlines.
Mr Kjos cast a critical eye over both IAG and Lufthansa even if he conceded a deal would be good for either of 
them. IAG, owner of Iberia and Aer Lingus too, has the greater route overlap, while it is not clear what Lufthansa's 
strategy is for its own low-cost airline Eurowings, according to Norwegian's chief executive.
The circling of rivals has rescued Norwegian's share price, which has risen by 50 per cent to NKr269 since IAG 
confirmed its interest, giving it an equity value of NKr12bn ($1.5bn). Much of Norwegian's appeal lies in its still 
expanding long-haul business, the most lucrative part of Lufthansa's and BA's model.
But as the airline has struggled to turn its losses into profits even with the best conditions for the industry in a 
decade, doubts are growing over the company's future, particularly as troubles for the carrier could be about to 
increase.
Fuel prices are rising while Rolls-Royce has said there are problems with the engines that are due to power the 
Boeing 787 Dreamliners that Norwegian is buying.
Cancellations due to faulty aircraft last year cost Norwegian tens of millions of dollars and lots of bad headlines as 
passengers were often stranded in airports for hours if not days. Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said: "If 
you're a holder, you need to sell. If you can short the stock, short the stock." A second analyst, who did not want to 
be named, is blunter: Norwegian could "go bust in the autumn". Mr Kjos is sanguine about the difficulties. He 
argued that a fleet of fuel-efficient aircraft was the "best hedge" against higher oil prices and that Norwegian should 
be able to recover some of its costs from Rolls-Royce.
The airline is shoring up its balance sheet with a private placement of up to NKr1.3bn as well as the divestment of 
as many as 140 of its aircraft and the possible sale of its rewards programme. Mr Kjos also stressed that the 
interest rate on the company's debt was extremely low. But Norwegian's financial woes are a big reason rivals are 
preparing to swoop.
A senior banker in Oslo said: "Norwegian had a great idea but you can question the execution. I think BA and the 
others think they can smell blood in the water."
High flying
'If you're a holder, you need to sell. If you can short the stock, short the stock'
Saving a bundle Business model was ahead of curve
'Everybody in Europe is talking to everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation'
Graphic
 
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Future in the air: the airline has struggled to turn losses into profits, but chief executive Bjorn Kjos, below, remains 
sanguine - Christopher Milligan/Alamy/Wiktor Dabkowski
Load-Date: June 22, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle; Having helped the carrier out 
of bankruptcy to become a pioneer of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a 
potential takeover
Financial Times (London, England)
June 23, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 12
Length: 1367 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO ;RICHARD MILNE
Body
Bjorn Kjos was in quite some trouble. He was a paratrooper on a training jump when the line of his parachute 
became tangled. His reserve chute would not open. With only seconds left till he hit the ground, he managed to free 
the line and landed shortly afterwards. That was 1967.
Fast-forward to 2018, and the 71-yearold chief executive of Norwegian Air Shuttle faces another test of his 
sangfroid. The airline he helped out of bankruptcy a quarter of a century ago to become the pioneer of low-cost 
longhaul air travel finds itself fought over by some of the biggest names of the industry in what could be a fractious 
takeover tussle.
Lufthansa and the owner of British Airways have both talked about buying Norwegian, Europe's third-largest 
lowcost airline behind Ryanair and easyJet. Mr Kjos has said Ryanair has looked at making a bid but Michael 
O'Leary, its combative chief executive, has denied any interest.
"Either Michael O'Leary or I have a bad memory. I know who it is," added Mr Kjos, talking to the Financial Times on 
a train from Brussels to Paris.
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Mr O'Leary, as well as some analysts and investors, have even suggested lossmaking Norwegian could go bust 
soon due to a stretched balance sheet and too fast expansion.
In five years, it has gone from 68 aircraft flying 330 routes to 145 planes last year on 512 legs. Worryingly for a 
lowcost airline, its unit costs have been increasing, ending last year up 7 per cent over 2016.
Long accustomed to the role of underdog - Mr Kjos was born weighing just 600 grammes while his twin brother was 
five times that - the Norwegian chief executive dismisses talk of the airline failing. "That's exactly the statement 
they've made for 15 years," he said.
Aeroplanes have played a central role in Mr Kjos's life. His father, a farmer in countryside surrounded by mountains 
about 80km north-west of Oslo, started a side business using a small aircraft to take pictures of other farms from 
the air. His children caught the air bug with Jon, Bjorn's twin, becoming a pilot for local airline Wideroe.
Bjorn himself took a more adrenalinfilled route, leaving paratrooper training to become a jet fighter pilot on models 
such as the F-5 and F-104.
Based in Bodo inside the Arctic Circle, at the height of the cold war in the early 1970s, he remembered "intercepting 
Russian aircraft when they approached Norwegian has been a pioneer in the unbundling of the airline industry's 
business model, Bernstein analyst Daniel Roeska says.
Unbundling separates low-margin seat fares from more profitable options like in-flight meals, rental cars and hotel 
rooms. A NKr1,200 ((EURO)128) flight to Miami would cost NKr1,700 with an upgrade including on-board meals, 
checked bag and reserved seat.
That is partly why chief Bjorn Kjos believes Norwegian's transatlantic routes will be profitable by next year, even 
though Mr Roeska estimates each flight costs the airline (EURO)20,000-(EURO)25,000, or (EURO)300m-
(EURO)400m per year.
But the analyst voiced doubt about any deal, given that IAG could not alter Norwegian's routes to fit its strategy until 
summer 2019. "Who will put himself into the situation of ... having a very tangible risk of the airline disappearing or 
needing major cash infusions until we get to that point?" the Norwegian border". His time there served as inspiration 
for spy thriller Murmanskaffaeren, which he wrote in 2006 when boss of the airline about a Soviet agent charged 
with blowing up a Norwegian fighter jet.
His dislike of, and fierce competition with, Scandinavian flag carrier SAS may well stem from its decision to turn him 
down as a pilot in the 1970s. He became a lawyer and later on a judge but did not entirely lose contact with airlines 
- his wife, who he met while hunting for grouse, was an air hostess with SAS for more than three decades.
His return to the airline industry was almost accidental - some friends in 1992 needed money to rescue a small 
airline known as Busy Bee from bankruptcy, and he became the biggest owner and chairman for the carrier that 
was soon given the name of Norwegian.
A decade later, SAS took over Norwegian's main business partner and the future looked bleak for the tiny airline 
that had just six propeller planes for domestic flights.
Instead, Mr Kjos went all in and became chief executive in 2002, aiming to transform Norwegian into Scandinavia's 
low-cost airline by using Boeing's 737 aircraft. He succeeded, outflanking SAS on costs and marketing before 
placing one of the industry's largest orders - for 222 planes - in 2012 and launching a long-haul business that sees 
Norwegian today fly to the US, Argentina, Thailand and Singapore, as well as all around Europe.
Mr Kjos is no mere chief executive. Together with his law school friend and chairman of Norwegian, Bjorn Kise, he 
owns 27 per cent of the airline making a friendly deal - something Willie Walsh of BA owner IAG has said is a must - 
all but impossible to do without him.
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
He has been clear in the past that he does not want to sell. But his response today appears more open. "My 
obligation is to run Norwegian as the CEO. If the board or the shareholders decide to sell, I will listen carefully to 
them, of course," he said.
Partly, this reflects the public interest in Norwegian. Carsten Spohr, chief executive of Lufthansa, told Süddeutsche 
Zeitung on Monday: "Everybody in Europe is talking to everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation. 
This means that we are also in contact with Norwegian."
That follows the news in April that IAG had taken a 4.6 per cent stake in Norwegian and wanted to buy it all. 
Norwegian has said it has turned down two approaches from IAG but Mr Walsh has said he will not enter a bidding 
war for it. Mr Kjos has also talked up the interest from other, unnamed airlines.
Mr Kjos cast a critical eye over both IAG and Lufthansa even if he conceded a deal would be good for either of 
them. IAG, owner of Iberia and Aer Lingus too, has the greater route overlap, while it is not clear what Lufthansa's 
strategy is for its own low-cost airline Eurowings, according to Norwegian's chief executive.
The circling of rivals has rescued Norwegian's share price, which has risen by 50 per cent to NKr269 since IAG 
confirmed its interest, giving it an equity value of NKr12bn ($1.5bn). Much of Norwegian's appeal lies in its still 
expanding long-haul business, the most lucrative part of Lufthansa's and BA's model.
But as the airline has struggled to turn its losses into profits even with the best conditions for the industry in a 
decade, doubts are growing over the company's future, particularly as troubles for the carrier could be about to 
increase.
Fuel prices are rising while Rolls-Royce has said there are problems with the engines that are due to power the 
Boeing 787 Dreamliners that Norwegian is buying.
Cancellations due to faulty aircraft last year cost Norwegian tens of millions of dollars and lots of bad headlines as 
passengers were often stranded in airports for hours if not days. Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said: "If 
you're a holder, you need to sell. If you can short the stock, short the stock." A second analyst, who did not want to 
be named, is blunter: Norwegian could "go bust in the autumn". Mr Kjos is sanguine about the difficulties. He 
argued that a fleet of fuel-efficient aircraft was the "best hedge" against higher oil prices and that Norwegian should 
be able to recover some of its costs from Rolls-Royce.
The airline is shoring up its balance sheet with a private placement of up to NKr1.3bn as well as the divestment of 
as many as 140 of its aircraft and the possible sale of its rewards programme. Mr Kjos also stressed that the 
interest rate on the company's debt was extremely low. But Norwegian's financial woes are a big reason rivals are 
preparing to swoop.
A senior banker in Oslo said: "Norwegian had a great idea but you can question the execution. I think BA and the 
others think they can smell blood in the water."
High flying
'If you're a holder, you need to sell. If you can short the stock, short the stock'
Saving a bundle Business model was ahead of curve
'Everybody in Europe is talking to everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation'
Graphic
 
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Future in the air: the airline has struggled to turn losses into profits, but chief executive Bjorn Kjos, below, remains 
sanguine - Christopher Milligan/Alamy/Wiktor Dabkowski
Load-Date: June 22, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle; Having helped the carrier out 
of bankruptcy to become a pioneer of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a 
potential takeover
Financial Times (London, England)
June 23, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 15
Length: 1367 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO ;RICHARD MILNE
Body
Bjorn Kjos was in quite some trouble. He was a paratrooper on a training jump when the line of his parachute 
became tangled. His reserve chute would not open. With only seconds left till he hit the ground, he managed to free 
the line and landed shortly afterwards. That was 1967.
Fast-forward to 2018, and the 71-yearold chief executive of Norwegian Air Shuttle faces another test of his 
sangfroid. The airline he helped out of bankruptcy a quarter of a century ago to become the pioneer of low-cost 
longhaul air travel finds itself fought over by some of the biggest names of the industry in what could be a fractious 
takeover tussle.
Lufthansa and the owner of British Airways have both talked about buying Norwegian, Europe's third-largest 
lowcost airline behind Ryanair and easyJet. Mr Kjos has said Ryanair has looked at making a bid but Michael 
O'Leary, its combative chief executive, has denied any interest.
"Either Michael O'Leary or I have a bad memory. I know who it is," added Mr Kjos, talking to the Financial Times on 
a train from Brussels to Paris.
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Mr O'Leary, as well as some analysts and investors, have even suggested lossmaking Norwegian could go bust 
soon due to a stretched balance sheet and too fast expansion.
In five years, it has gone from 68 aircraft flying 330 routes to 145 planes last year on 512 legs. Worryingly for a 
lowcost airline, its unit costs have been increasing, ending last year up 7 per cent over 2016.
Long accustomed to the role of underdog - Mr Kjos was born weighing just 600 grammes while his twin brother was 
five times that - the Norwegian chief executive dismisses talk of the airline failing. "That's exactly the statement 
they've made for 15 years," he said.
Aeroplanes have played a central role in Mr Kjos's life. His father, a farmer in countryside surrounded by mountains 
about 80km north-west of Oslo, started a side business using a small aircraft to take pictures of other farms from 
the air. His children caught the air bug with Jon, Bjorn's twin, becoming a pilot for local airline Wideroe.
Bjorn himself took a more adrenalinfilled route, leaving paratrooper training to become a jet fighter pilot on models 
such as the F-5 and F-104.
Based in Bodo inside the Arctic Circle, at the height of the cold war in the early 1970s, he remembered "intercepting 
Russian aircraft when they approached Norwegian has been a pioneer in the unbundling of the airline industry's 
business model, Bernstein analyst Daniel Roeska says.
Unbundling separates low-margin seat fares from more profitable options like in-flight meals, rental cars and hotel 
rooms. A NKr1,200 ((EURO)128) flight to Miami would cost NKr1,700 with an upgrade including on-board meals, 
checked bag and reserved seat.
That is partly why chief Bjorn Kjos believes Norwegian's transatlantic routes will be profitable by next year, even 
though Mr Roeska estimates each flight costs the airline (EURO)20,000-(EURO)25,000, or (EURO)300m-
(EURO)400m per year.
But the analyst voiced doubt about any deal, given that IAG could not alter Norwegian's routes to fit its strategy until 
summer 2019. "Who will put himself into the situation of ... having a very tangible risk of the airline disappearing or 
needing major cash infusions until we get to that point?" the Norwegian border". His time there served as inspiration 
for spy thriller Murmanskaffaeren, which he wrote in 2006 when boss of the airline about a Soviet agent charged 
with blowing up a Norwegian fighter jet.
His dislike of, and fierce competition with, Scandinavian flag carrier SAS may well stem from its decision to turn him 
down as a pilot in the 1970s. He became a lawyer and later on a judge but did not entirely lose contact with airlines 
- his wife, who he met while hunting for grouse, was an air hostess with SAS for more than three decades.
His return to the airline industry was almost accidental - some friends in 1992 needed money to rescue a small 
airline known as Busy Bee from bankruptcy, and he became the biggest owner and chairman for the carrier that 
was soon given the name of Norwegian.
A decade later, SAS took over Norwegian's main business partner and the future looked bleak for the tiny airline 
that had just six propeller planes for domestic flights.
Instead, Mr Kjos went all in and became chief executive in 2002, aiming to transform Norwegian into Scandinavia's 
low-cost airline by using Boeing's 737 aircraft. He succeeded, outflanking SAS on costs and marketing before 
placing one of the industry's largest orders - for 222 planes - in 2012 and launching a long-haul business that sees 
Norwegian today fly to the US, Argentina, Thailand and Singapore, as well as all around Europe.
Mr Kjos is no mere chief executive. Together with his law school friend and chairman of Norwegian, Bjorn Kise, he 
owns 27 per cent of the airline making a friendly deal - something Willie Walsh of BA owner IAG has said is a must - 
all but impossible to do without him.
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
He has been clear in the past that he does not want to sell. But his response today appears more open. "My 
obligation is to run Norwegian as the CEO. If the board or the shareholders decide to sell, I will listen carefully to 
them, of course," he said.
Partly, this reflects the public interest in Norwegian. Carsten Spohr, chief executive of Lufthansa, told Süddeutsche 
Zeitung on Monday: "Everybody in Europe is talking to everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation. 
This means that we are also in contact with Norwegian."
That follows the news in April that IAG had taken a 4.6 per cent stake in Norwegian and wanted to buy it all. 
Norwegian has said it has turned down two approaches from IAG but Mr Walsh has said he will not enter a bidding 
war for it. Mr Kjos has also talked up the interest from other, unnamed airlines.
Mr Kjos cast a critical eye over both IAG and Lufthansa even if he conceded a deal would be good for either of 
them. IAG, owner of Iberia and Aer Lingus too, has the greater route overlap, while it is not clear what Lufthansa's 
strategy is for its own low-cost airline Eurowings, according to Norwegian's chief executive.
The circling of rivals has rescued Norwegian's share price, which has risen by 50 per cent to NKr269 since IAG 
confirmed its interest, giving it an equity value of NKr12bn ($1.5bn). Much of Norwegian's appeal lies in its still 
expanding long-haul business, the most lucrative part of Lufthansa's and BA's model.
But as the airline has struggled to turn its losses into profits even with the best conditions for the industry in a 
decade, doubts are growing over the company's future, particularly as troubles for the carrier could be about to 
increase.
Fuel prices are rising while Rolls-Royce has said there are problems with the engines that are due to power the 
Boeing 787 Dreamliners that Norwegian is buying.
Cancellations due to faulty aircraft last year cost Norwegian tens of millions of dollars and lots of bad headlines as 
passengers were often stranded in airports for hours if not days.
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said: "If you're a holder, you need to sell. If you can short the stock, short the 
stock." A second analyst, who did not want to be named, is blunter: Norwegian could "go bust in the autumn". Mr 
Kjos is sanguine about the difficulties. He argued that a fleet of fuel-efficient aircraft was the "best hedge" against 
higher oil prices and that Norwegian should be able to recover some of its costs from Rolls-Royce.
The airline is shoring up its balance sheet with a private placement of up to NKr1.3bn as well as the divestment of 
as many as 140 of its aircraft and the possible sale of its rewards programme.
Mr Kjos also stressed that the interest rate on the company's debt was extremely low. But Norwegian's financial 
woes are a big reason rivals are preparing to swoop.
A senior banker in Oslo said: "Norwegian had a great idea but you can question the execution. I think BA and the 
others think they can smell blood in the water."
High flying
'If you're a holder, you need to sell. If you can short the stock, short the stock'
Saving a bundle Business model was ahead of curve
'Everybody in Europe is talking to everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation'
Graphic
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
 
Future in the air: the airline has struggled to turn losses into profits, but chief executive Bjorn Kjos, below, remains 
sanguine - Christopher Milligan/Alamy/Wiktor Dabkowski
Load-Date: June 22, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle; Having helped the carrier out 
of bankruptcy to become a pioneer of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a 
potential takeover
Financial Times (London, England)
June 23, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 10
Length: 1367 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO ;RICHARD MILNE
Body
Bjorn Kjos was in quite some trouble. He was a paratrooper on a training jump when the line of his parachute 
became tangled. His reserve chute would not open. With only seconds left till he hit the ground, he managed to free 
the line and landed shortly afterwards. That was 1967.
Fast-forward to 2018, and the 71-yearold chief executive of Norwegian Air Shuttle faces another test of his 
sangfroid. The airline he helped out of bankruptcy a quarter of a century ago to become the pioneer of low-cost 
longhaul air travel finds itself fought over by some of the biggest names of the industry in what could be a fractious 
takeover tussle.
Lufthansa and the owner of British Airways have both talked about buying Norwegian, Europe's third-largest 
lowcost airline behind Ryanair and easyJet. Mr Kjos has said Ryanair has looked at making a bid but Michael 
O'Leary, its combative chief executive, has denied any interest.
"Either Michael O'Leary or I have a bad memory. I know who it is," added Mr Kjos, talking to the Financial Times on 
a train from Brussels to Paris.
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Mr O'Leary, as well as some analysts and investors, have even suggested lossmaking Norwegian could go bust 
soon due to a stretched balance sheet and too fast expansion.
In five years, it has gone from 68 aircraft flying 330 routes to 145 planes last year on 512 legs. Worryingly for a 
lowcost airline, its unit costs have been increasing, ending last year up 7 per cent over 2016.
Long accustomed to the role of underdog - Mr Kjos was born weighing just 600 grammes while his twin brother was 
five times that - the Norwegian chief executive dismisses talk of the airline failing. "That's exactly the statement 
they've made for 15 years," he said.
Aeroplanes have played a central role in Mr Kjos's life. His father, a farmer in countryside surrounded by mountains 
about 80km north-west of Oslo, started a side business using a small aircraft to take pictures of other farms from 
the air. His children caught the air bug with Jon, Bjorn's twin, becoming a pilot for local airline Wideroe.
Bjorn himself took a more adrenalinfilled route, leaving paratrooper training to become a jet fighter pilot on models 
such as the F-5 and F-104.
Based in Bodo inside the Arctic Circle, at the height of the cold war in the early 1970s, he remembered "intercepting 
Russian aircraft when they approached Norwegian has been a pioneer in the unbundling of the airline industry's 
business model, Bernstein analyst Daniel Roeska says.
Unbundling separates low-margin seat fares from more profitable options like in-flight meals, rental cars and hotel 
rooms. A NKr1,200 ((EURO)128) flight to Miami would cost NKr1,700 with an upgrade including on-board meals, 
checked bag and reserved seat.
That is partly why chief Bjorn Kjos believes Norwegian's transatlantic routes will be profitable by next year, even 
though Mr Roeska estimates each flight costs the airline (EURO)20,000-(EURO)25,000, or (EURO)300m-
(EURO)400m per year.
But the analyst voiced doubt about any deal, given that IAG could not alter Norwegian's routes to fit its strategy until 
summer 2019. "Who will put himself into the situation of ... having a very tangible risk of the airline disappearing or 
needing major cash infusions until we get to that point?" the Norwegian border". His time there served as inspiration 
for spy thriller Murmanskaffaeren, which he wrote in 2006 when boss of the airline about a Soviet agent charged 
with blowing up a Norwegian fighter jet.
His dislike of, and fierce competition with, Scandinavian flag carrier SAS may well stem from its decision to turn him 
down as a pilot in the 1970s. He became a lawyer and later on a judge but did not entirely lose contact with airlines 
- his wife, who he met while hunting for grouse, was an air hostess with SAS for more than three decades.
His return to the airline industry was almost accidental - some friends in 1992 needed money to rescue a small 
airline known as Busy Bee from bankruptcy, and he became the biggest owner and chairman for the carrier that 
was soon given the name of Norwegian.
A decade later, SAS took over Norwegian's main business partner and the future looked bleak for the tiny airline 
that had just six propeller planes for domestic flights.
Instead, Mr Kjos went all in and became chief executive in 2002, aiming to transform Norwegian into Scandinavia's 
low-cost airline by using Boeing's 737 aircraft. He succeeded, outflanking SAS on costs and marketing before 
placing one of the industry's largest orders - for 222 planes - in 2012 and launching a long-haul business that sees 
Norwegian today fly to the US, Argentina, Thailand and Singapore, as well as all around Europe.
Mr Kjos is no mere chief executive. Together with his law school friend and chairman of Norwegian, Bjorn Kise, he 
owns 27 per cent of the airline making a friendly deal - something Willie Walsh of BA owner IAG has said is a must - 
all but impossible to do without him.
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
He has been clear in the past that he does not want to sell. But his response today appears more open. "My 
obligation is to run Norwegian as the CEO. If the board or the shareholders decide to sell, I will listen carefully to 
them, of course," he said.
Partly, this reflects the public interest in Norwegian. Carsten Spohr, chief executive of Lufthansa, told Süddeutsche 
Zeitung on Monday: "Everybody in Europe is talking to everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation. 
This means that we are also in contact with Norwegian."
That follows the news in April that IAG had taken a 4.6 per cent stake in Norwegian and wanted to buy it all. 
Norwegian has said it has turned down two approaches from IAG but Mr Walsh has said he will not enter a bidding 
war for it. Mr Kjos has also talked up the interest from other, unnamed airlines.
Mr Kjos cast a critical eye over both IAG and Lufthansa even if he conceded a deal would be good for either of 
them. IAG, owner of Iberia and Aer Lingus too, has the greater route overlap, while it is not clear what Lufthansa's 
strategy is for its own low-cost airline Eurowings, according to Norwegian's chief executive.
The circling of rivals has rescued Norwegian's share price, which has risen by 50 per cent to NKr269 since IAG 
confirmed its interest, giving it an equity value of NKr12bn ($1.5bn). Much of Norwegian's appeal lies in its still 
expanding long-haul business, the most lucrative part of Lufthansa's and BA's model.
But as the airline has struggled to turn its losses into profits even with the best conditions for the industry in a 
decade, doubts are growing over the company's future, particularly as troubles for the carrier could be about to 
increase.
Fuel prices are rising while Rolls-Royce has said there are problems with the engines that are due to power the 
Boeing 787 Dreamliners that Norwegian is buying.
Cancellations due to faulty aircraft last year cost Norwegian tens of millions of dollars and lots of bad headlines as 
passengers were often stranded in airports for hours if not days. Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said: "If 
you're a holder, you need to sell. If you can short the stock, short the stock." A second analyst, who did not want to 
be named, is blunter: Norwegian could "go bust in the autumn". Mr Kjos is sanguine about the difficulties. He 
argued that a fleet of fuel-efficient aircraft was the "best hedge" against higher oil prices and that Norwegian should 
be able to recover some of its costs from Rolls-Royce.
The airline is shoring up its balance sheet with a private placement of up to NKr1.3bn as well as the divestment of 
as many as 140 of its aircraft and the possible sale of its rewards programme. Mr Kjos also stressed that the 
interest rate on the company's debt was extremely low. But Norwegian's financial woes are a big reason rivals are 
preparing to swoop.
A senior banker in Oslo said: "Norwegian had a great idea but you can question the execution. I think BA and the 
others think they can smell blood in the water."
High flying
'If you're a holder, you need to sell. If you can short the stock, short the stock'
Saving a bundle Business model was ahead of curve
'Everybody in Europe is talking to everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation'
Graphic
 
Norwegian chief remains calm as rivals circle Having helped the carrier out of bankruptcy to become a pioneer 
of low-cost travel, Bjorn Kjos faces a potential t....
Future in the air: the airline has struggled to turn losses into profits, but chief executive Bjorn Kjos, below, remains 
sanguine - Christopher Milligan/Alamy/Wiktor Dabkowski
Load-Date: June 22, 2018
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Friday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Friday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
June 22, 2018 Friday 11:01 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 226 words
Body
 American depositary receipts of European stocks were trading 1.84% higher at 137.39 on the Bank of New York 
Mellon Europe ADR Index on Friday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by oil companies Total (TOT), and Eni (E), which rose 3.8% and 3.2% 
respectively. They were followed by financial services firm Credit Suisse (CS), and telecommunications provider 
Orange (ORAN), which were up 2.7% and 1.6%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by software firm Talend (TLND), and hotel booking site Trivago 
(TRVG), which fell 4.9% and 3.0% respectively. They were followed by semiconductor companies Sequans 
Communications (SQNS), and STMicroelectronics (STM), which were off 2.9% and 1.8%.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by oil company BP (BP), and biopharmaceutical firm NuCana (NCNA), 
which climbed 3.9% and 3.2% respectively. They were followed by mining company BHP Billiton (BBL), and 
consumer goods company British American Tobacco (BTI), which rose 1.9% and 1.7%.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by pharmaceutical company Avadel (AVDL), and biopharmaceutical 
firm Adaptimmune Therapeutics (ADAP), which lost 5.1% and 2.7% respectively. They were followed by 
biopharmaceutical company Amarin (AMRN), and airline operator Ryanair (RYAAY), which were down 1.8% and 
0.7%.
Price: 61.05, Change: +2.41, Percent Change: +4.11
Load-Date: June 23, 2018
End of Document
BRITISH COLUMBIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Corp Purchases 20,000 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( 
RYAAY )
BRITISH COLUMBIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Corp Purchases 20,000 
Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
June 22, 2018 Friday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 678 words
Body
Ryanair logo BRITISH COLUMBIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Corp boosted its position in  Ryanair Holdings 
plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 242.0% during the 1st quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure 
with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The fund owned 28,265 shares of the transportation company's stock 
after acquiring an additional 20,000 shares during the period. BRITISH COLUMBIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 
Corp's holdings in Ryanair were worth $3,472,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
Other institutional investors and hedge funds also recently modified their holdings of the company. Goldman Sachs 
Group Inc. boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 25.2% during the fourth quarter. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. now 
owns 116,474 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $12,135,000 after buying an additional 23,471 
shares during the last quarter.  D.A. Davidson & CO. acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the fourth 
quarter worth about $341,000.  We Are One Seven LLC acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 
fourth quarter worth about $211,000.  Deutsche Bank AG raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 754.1% during 
the fourth quarter. Deutsche Bank AG now owns 259,890 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$27,076,000 after purchasing an additional 229,460 shares during the period.  Finally, Tower Research Capital LLC 
TRC acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth about $148,000. Hedge funds and 
other institutional investors own  43.69% of the company's stock.  
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of research analyst reports. BidaskClub lowered Ryanair from a "strong-
buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, June 1st. Deutsche Bank  reaffirmed a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, May 22nd. Zacks Investment Research  raised Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target on the stock in a research report on Thursday, March 
29th.            ValuEngine  lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Wednesday, 
May 9th. Finally, BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report 
on Thursday, June 7th. Three equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, seven have issued  
a hold rating and two have issued  a buy rating to the company. Ryanair currently has an average rating of "Hold" 
and a consensus target price of $110.50. 
Ryanair opened at $118.45 on Friday, according to Marketbeat.com . The stock has a market cap of $26.61 billion, 
a PE ratio of 16.80 and a beta of 0.64. The company has a current ratio of 1.23, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-
equity ratio of 0.79. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $101.10 and a one year high of $127.61.  
BRITISH COLUMBIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Corp Purchases 20,000 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( 
RYAAY )
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, beating the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. 
Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion 
for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion.  research analysts anticipate that  Ryanair Holdings 
plc will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 22, 2018
End of Document
Easyjet boss says he's interested in setting up base in Heathrow
Easyjet boss says he's interested in setting up base in Heathrow
City A.M.
June 22, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 152 words
Byline: VICTORIA BRYAN
Body
THE CHIEF executive of low-cost airline Easyjet said yesterday that he would be interested in setting up a base in 
Heathrow.
"It's got to go through all process. Clearly it would be an opportunity for us. It's the only primary airport in Europe 
from which we do not www.operate.No reason why we shouldn't be there and be there with a base," Easyjet CEO 
Johan Lundgren told Reuters at the Paris Air Forum.
Lundgren added he felt Easyjet coped well regarding competition from rival Ryanair at the Southend airport, and 
reiterated that EasyJet had no interest in low-cost airline Norwegian Air Shuttle.
"We have publicly stated we have no interest in Norwegian. Plenty of things to go with on our own. I admire Bjorn, 
so do a lot of people too," said Lundgren, referring to Bjorn Kjos - the boss of Norwegian Air Shuttle.
Lundgren added he was confident regarding the impact Brexit might have on the airline industry.
Reuters
Graphic
 
Easyjet's biggest base is currently at London Gatwick Airport
Easyjet boss says he's interested in setting up base in Heathrow
Load-Date: June 22, 2018
End of Document
BA -owner and Ryanair launch legal fight against French government
BA-owner and Ryanair launch legal fight against French government
City A.M.
June 22, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 172 words
Byline: ALEXANDRA ROGERS
Body
BRITISH Airways owner IAG and Ryanair have launched legal action against the French government over the 
"unacceptable" toll Air Traffic Control (ATC) strikes are having on passengers.
The airlines have submitted a joint complaint to the European Commission saying the rights of passengers needed 
to be upheld.
IAG chief executive Willie Walsh said the strikes, which have taken place over Emmanuel Macron's labour reforms, 
were the "biggest challenge facing our industry".
"They are destroying European air traffic and having a huge impact on consumers. It's a really frustrating cause of 
disruption that affects all airlines but in particular has a significant negative impact on Spain's tourism and 
economy," he said.
"The EU must act now to protect the rights of the consumers and prevent long term damage to European 
economies".
Since 2017 there has been a 300-percent jump in the number of ATC strikes, lodged in protest against Macron's 
labour reforms. The strikes mean many airlines are suspended from flying over France's air space.
Graphic
 
BA -owner and Ryanair launch legal fight against French government
French air traffic control strikes have caused havoc with UK airline passengers
Load-Date: June 22, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair , IAG to Lodge Complaint Against French Government Over Air Traffic Control Strikes
Ryanair, IAG to Lodge Complaint Against French Government Over Air 
Traffic Control Strikes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
June 21, 2018 Thursday 5:01 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 213 words
Body
 Ryanair (RYAAY) and the International Airlines Group (IAG) are planning to file a complaint to the European 
Commission against the French government for failing to address air traffic control strikes which they say are 
having a crippling effect on passenger service, media reported.
In a press conference in Brussels, IAG CEO Willie Walsh said that the strikes were having a devastating impact on 
schedules. As a consequence, passengers were being denied their right to free movement, which is enshrined in 
EU law.
"Both Ryanair and IAG plan to submit a complaint to the European Commission which will be against the French 
government because we believe that the French government is not adequately protecting the rights of Europeans to 
free movement," Walsh said.
"You can't have the freedom of movement if a couple of hundred air traffic controllers in Marseille are going to shut 
down the skies over Europe on a regular basis," Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary told reporters. He added that 2018 
was on course to be the worst year ever for controller strikes, with 28 days lost already.
Air traffic controllers in Marseilles are due to go on strike again this weekend and Ryanair is expected to cancel 180 
flights on Saturday and Sunday.
Price: 117.09, Change: +3.48, Percent Change: +3.06
Load-Date: June 22, 2018
End of Document
German pilots to vote on strike action at Ryanair
German pilots to vote on strike action at Ryanair
Business World (Digest)
June 21, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: WORLD
Length: 268 words
Byline: Business World
Body
German labour union Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) said it would start balloting Ryanair pilots for industrial action, 
raising the prospect of strikes from August, after it declared negotiations with the Irish low-cost carrier as failed.
Ryanair last year agreed to recognise unions for the first time in a bid to avert strikes and resolve a staffing crunch, 
but is struggling to reach agreements in some countries.
VC was the first union to carry out a threat to strike at Ryanair last year, although the disruption was limited.
"We have given them six months to find solutions, showing a great deal of patience towards Ryanair. That's over 
now," VC negotiator Ingolf Schumacher said in a statement on Wednesday.
Schumacher said Ryanair had failed to understand that it could no longer unilaterally impose working conditions on 
staff.
The union is using conditions at German leisure carrier TUIfly, whose pilots also fly 737 jets, as a base for its 
demands, VC said.
The union said it would be available for talks while balloting goes on through the end of July should Ryanair want to 
restart talks on acceptable pay and conditions.
Ryanair, which operates in 37 countries and last year carried some 130 million passengers, has reached pilot union 
recognition agreements in Britain and Italy, but talks have stuttered in Spain and Ireland, two of its biggest markets.
German pilots to vote on strike action at Ryanair
Its Irish union on Tuesday extended a ballot on industrial action by two weeks, saying its members wanted more 
time to consider the move, which could lead to a strike.
Ryanair was not immediately available for comment. (Reuters)
Source:www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 18, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Rating Lowered to Hold at BidaskClub
Ryanair (RYAAY) Rating Lowered to Hold at BidaskClub
Watchlist News
June 21, 2018 Thursday 10:41 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 651 words
Body
Jun 21, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
was downgraded by research analysts at BidaskClub[1] from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report released on 
Tuesday.Other analysts also recently issued research reports about the company. Zacks Investment Research[2] 
upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target on the stock in a research 
note on Thursday, March 29th. ValuEngine[3] downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a 
research note on Wednesday, May 9th. 
Exane BNP Paribas downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on 
Thursday, June 7th. Deutsche Bank downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on 
Thursday, June 7th. Finally, BNP Paribas downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a 
research note on Thursday, June 7th. Three research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, seven have 
assigned a hold rating and two have issued a buy rating to the company. The company has a consensus rating of 
"Hold" and an average target price of $110.50.Shares of Ryanair opened at $117.09 on Tuesday, 
MarketBeat.com[4] reports. Ryanair has a 1-year low of $101.10 and a 1-year high of $127.61. The company has a 
current ratio of 1.23, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. The firm has a market cap of $26.68 
billion, a P/E ratio of 16.61 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its earnings results on 
Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, topping the 
Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net 
margin of 20.13%. The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of 
$1.56 billion. equities research analysts forecast that Ryanair will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal 
year. Institutional investors have recently bought and sold shares of the business. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. grew 
its stake in Ryanair by 25.2% during the 4th quarter. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. now owns 116,474 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $12,135,000 after purchasing an additional 23,471 shares during the last 
quarter. Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 5.9% in the fourth quarter. 
Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. now owns 39,400 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $4,105,000 
after buying an additional 2,200 shares during the last quarter. D.A. Davidson .... purchased a new stake in shares 
of Ryanair in the fourth quarter worth about $341,000. We Are One Seven LLC purchased a new stake in shares of 
Ryanair in the fourth quarter worth about $211,000. Finally, Deutsche Bank AG boosted its stake in shares of 
Ryanair by 754.1% in the fourth quarter. Deutsche Bank AG now owns 259,890 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $27,076,000 after buying an additional 229,460 shares during the last quarter. Institutional 
investors and hedge funds own 43.69% of the company's stock. About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with 
its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, 
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Rating Lowered to Hold at BidaskClub
Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-
related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as 
engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. [ 1]: http://bidaskclub.com/ [ 2]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
Load-Date: June 21, 2018
End of Document
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
City A.M.
June 21, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 425 words
Body
FINANCIAL TIMES MAY CASTS DOUBT ON UK'S MILITARY MIGHT Theresa May has asked Gavin Williamson, 
the defence secretary, to justify Britain's role as a "tier one" military power, throwing the Ministry of Defence's armed 
forces modernisation plan into disarray just weeks before a crucial Nato summit. At a tense meeting this week, the 
Prime Minister said Williamson needed to rethink the capabilities needed to be a modern military force.
MATCH GROUP SWIPES RIGHT ON APP HINGE Match Group has acquired a majority stake in Hinge, the dating 
app popular with millennials, as it faces competition from social networking site Facebook that said last month that it 
would move into the online dating market. Match, which owns Tinder and OKCupid, first invested in Hinge in 
September.
THE TIMES TRUMP AND PUTIN PLAN TALKS DURING EUROPE TRIP Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin are 
preparing to meet during the US President's visit to Europe next month in a move that is causing alarm in Whitehall. 
The prospect of a meeting is fuelling fears over Trump's commitment to Nato and the impact on his to Britain.
BP BRACES FOR LOWER OIL PRICE Oil prices will fluctuate between $50 and $65 per barrel for the rest of the 
decade, according to the chief executive of BP. Bob Dudley said yesterday that the oil major would not base its 
plans on the price of oil being at $75 per barrel.
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH EMAILS REVEAL EX-STOBART BOSS'S SEXIST RANT The former Stobart boss 
Andrew Tinkler complained to a major shareholder that he was paid a "pittance" and "might have been better with a 
pair of t**s" prior to launching a bid, alongside the fund manager Neil Woodford, to unseat the company's chairman.
AIRLINES LAUNCH LEGAL ACTION AGAINST FRANCE IAG and Ryanair are launching legal action against the 
French government over air traffic control strikes, saying it is an issue which has been "forced on airlines and forced 
on our customers". They are submitting a complaint to the European Commission.
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL DAIMLER ISSUES PROFIT WARNING The escalating trade war between the US 
and China has claimed an unintended victim: Germany's premium car manufacturer Daimler. The luxury sedan 
maker issued a surprise profit warning last night, saying Chinese retaliatory import duties on vehicles built in the US 
would hit sales and profits of the SUVs it builds in Alabama.
AMC THEATERS LAUNCH SUBSCRIPTION SERVICE AMC Entertainment Holdings is launching a new offering 
that lets customers see up to three movies a week for $19.95 (£15.10) a month at any of its US theatres.
Load-Date: June 21, 2018
End of Document
Thursday Papers: Disney trumps Comcast with $71bn offer for Fox
Thursday Papers: Disney trumps Comcast with $71bn offer for Fox
Citywire
June 21, 2018 Thursday 4:53 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 751 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And Berkeley warns that profits are set to dip 30% in 2019 on lower London house prices.
Body
Top stories
•
The Times: Walt Disney has increased the offer for 21st Century Fox’s prized entertainment and 
distribution businesses to $71.3 billion offer trumping Comcast’s rival bid of $65 billion.
•
Financial Times: Housebuilder Berkeley Group has warned possible dip in annual profits in 2019 due to 
lowered prices in London while reporting 15% rise in pre-tax profit for financial year 2018.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Airlines IAG and Ryanair are launching legal action against the French government 
over air traffic control strikes, saying it is an issue which has been "forced on airlines and forced on our 
customers".
•
Financial Times: Government has asked explanation from HS2 high speed rail project if the company 
provided false figures in its budget to mislead parliament over the cost of acquiring property.
•
Financial Times: President Donald Trump has reversed his controversial policy of separating children from 
their parents after illegal border crossings, following mounting criticism.
Business and economics
•
The Guardian: The government plans to safeguard London’s position as the world’s leading financial 
centre after Brexit by signing a series of financial partnerships with non-EU countries that will make the UK 
a gateway to financial markets.
•
The Times: The European Union will target €2.8 billion of American products from speedboats and 
motorcycles to orange juice and cigarettes as it hits back tomorrow against President Trump’s steep tariffs 
on steel.
•
The Times: The housing market in England and Wales has lost more than £1 billion in value in only a year 
as the sharp slowdown in London’s housing market dragged down the total, first time since 2011.
•
The Guardian: Video giant YouTube lost a crucial vote in Brussels over new copyright laws that will force it 
to pay billions of dollars in fees for users watching music videos.
•
The Times: Severfield, which provides structural steelwork for Britain’s biggest construction projects, is 
delivering investors a 13% rise in its dividend after working on large projects in London last year.
Thursday Papers: Disney trumps Comcast with $71bn offer for Fox
•
Daily Mail: Defence giant BAE Systems has struck a deal worth up to £1 billion to sell amphibious tanks to 
the US Marines.
•
The Guardian: American Outdoor Brands Corporation, the gunmaker formerly known as Smith & Wesson, 
reported 32.8% drop in sales.
•
Financial Times: Noble Group has been able to move ahead with its $3.5 billion restructuring plan after 
receiving approval from dissident shareholder Goldilocks Investment.
•
Daily Mail: Tool hire group HSS has secured a refinancing deal with its lenders as it battles to turn its 
financial fortunes around.
•
The Times: Restaurant business Prescott & Conran, owned by Terence Conran, went into administration 
becoming the latest big name in the restaurant sector to hit financial trouble.
•
The Guardian: The online casino company 32Red has been fined £2 million for missing 22 opportunities to 
help a problem gambler, offering the customer VIP status and free bonuses instead of advice.
•
Financial Times: David Drumm, former CEO of Anglo Irish Bank, has been handed six-year prison 
sentence for a €7.2 billion fraud and false accounting at the failed lender.
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): BUY Legal & General; HOLD Berkeley Group.
•
The Daily Telegraph (Questor share tips): BUY Johnson Matthey; HOLD Kromek.
•
The Times: Volkswagen and Ford have announced a “strategic alliance” to develop a new generation of 
commercial vehicles, as rival manufacturers explore ways to co-operate.
•
The Times: Sports Direct has sold its shares in Finish Line, the American footwear chain that has been 
taken over by the rival JD Sports, for about £34 million.
•
Financial Times: Oil trade Vitol has announced a A$5 billion listing of its Australian fuel distribution and 
refining business, named Viva Energy.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Government has given green light to the takeover of the Express and Star 
newspapers by Reach, the publisher formerly known as Trinity Mirror, clearing the way for sharp cost-
cutting.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Royal Dutch Shell has pruned more than a billion dollars from its global oil portfolio 
by selling off assets in Norway and Malaysia.
•
The Guardian (Comment): Sainsbury’s takeover of Asda could do with some rigorous scrutiny.
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): China First' pursuit of hi-tech hegemony was bound to provoke America.
•
Financial Times: French energy utility Engie has sold its 69.1% stake in Glow, an independent power 
producer listed in Thailand, in a deal worth up to €2.6 billion.
Load-Date: July 19, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Bought by Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company 
LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Northwestern Mutual 
Investment Management Company LLC
Transcript Daily
June 21, 2018 Thursday 5:26 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 793 words
Body
Jun 21, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Northwestern Mutual Investment 
Management Company LLC raised its holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 54.7% during the first 
quarter, HoldingsChannel.com[1] reports. The firm owned 7,903 shares of the transportation company's stock after 
purchasing an additional 2,796 shares during the period. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company 
LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $971,000 at the end of the most recent quarter. 
A number of other large investors have also bought and sold shares of the business. Renaissance Technologies 
LLC raised its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 28.6% in the 4th quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC now owns 
3,473,819 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $361,937,000 after buying an additional 772,300 
shares during the period. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA raised its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 
53.3% in the 1st quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,217,338 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $272,400,000 after buying an additional 770,774 shares during the period. 
FIL Ltd raised its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 659.3% in the 1st quarter. FIL Ltd now owns 575,221 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $70,665,000 after buying an additional 499,469 shares during the 
period. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. raised its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 20.4% in the 1st quarter. 
Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares of the transportation company's stock valued 
at $242,499,000 after buying an additional 334,623 shares during the period. Finally, Lazard Asset Management 
LLC raised its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 12.6% in the 4th quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 
2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $302,744,000 after buying an additional 325,932 
shares during the period. Institutional investors own 43.69% of the company's stock. RYAAY stock[2] opened at 
$117.09 on Thursday. The company has a current ratio of 1.23, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 
0.79. The firm has a market capitalization of $26.61 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.61 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair Holdings 
plc has a 12-month low of $101.10 and a 12-month high of $127.61. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its 
quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 earnings per share for 
the quarter, topping the consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during 
the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a 
net margin of 20.13%. research analysts expect that Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 EPS for the current year. 
RYAAY has been the topic of several research analyst reports. BidaskClub downgraded Ryanair from a "strong-
buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Thursday, March 1st. Zacks Investment Research[3] upgraded Ryanair 
from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price objective on the stock in a report on Thursday, March 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Bought by Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company 
LLC
29th. Deutsche Bank reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, May 22nd. 
ValuEngine[4] downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Wednesday, May 9th. 
Finally, BNP Paribas downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, 
June 7th. Three investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, seven have given a hold rating and two 
have given a buy rating to the company. The company presently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and a consensus 
target price of $110.50.About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-
passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers 
various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets 
accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food, and merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[5] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
[ 1]: http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
5]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
Load-Date: June 21, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) and American Airlines Group (AAL) Head to Head Survey
Ryanair (RYAAY) and American Airlines Group (AAL) Head to Head Survey
DailyPolitical
June 21, 2018 Thursday 9:35 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 671 words
Body
Jun 21, 2018( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair (NASDAQ: RYAAY) and 
American Airlines Group (NASDAQ:AAL) are both large-cap transportation companies, but which is the better 
investment? We will compare the two businesses based on the strength of their profitability, valuation, dividends, 
institutional ownership, earnings, risk and analyst recommendations. ProfitabilityThis table compares Ryanair and 
American Airlines Group's net margins, return on equity and return on assets. 
Analyst RatingsThis is a summary of current recommendations and price targets for Ryanair and American Airlines 
Group, as reported by MarketBeat.com.  Ryanair presently has a consensus target price of $83.00, suggesting a 
potential downside of 29.11%. American Airlines Group has a consensus target price of $61.62, suggesting a 
potential upside of 46.60%. Given American Airlines Group's stronger consensus rating and higher probable 
upside, analysts plainly believe American Airlines Group is more favorable than Ryanair. Volatility and Risk Ryanair 
has a beta of 0.64, indicating that its share price is 36% less volatile than the S...00. Comparatively, American 
Airlines Group has a beta of 0.98, indicating that its share price is 2% less volatile than the S...00. Institutional and 
Insider Ownership43.7% of Ryanair shares are owned by institutional investors. Comparatively, 80.7% of American 
Airlines Group shares are owned by institutional investors. 0.7% of American Airlines Group shares are owned by 
company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that endowments, hedge funds and large money 
managers believe a stock is poised for long-term growth.Valuation and Earnings This table compares Ryanair and 
American Airlines Group's revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation. American Airlines Group has higher 
revenue and earnings than Ryanair. American Airlines Group is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than 
Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. DividendsAmerican Airlines Group pays 
an annual dividend of $0.40 per share and has a dividend yield of 1.0%. Ryanair does not pay a dividend. American 
Airlines Group pays out 8.2% of its earnings in the form of a dividend. SummaryAmerican Airlines Group beats 
Ryanair on 10 of the 16 factors compared between the two stocks.Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, 
together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled 
services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its 
Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In addition, the company 
sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car parking, attractions, and 
activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 737-800 aircraft and 33 
leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving approximately 200 
airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, Ireland.American 
Airlines Group Company ProfileAmerican Airlines Group Inc., through its subsidiaries, operates as a network air 
Ryanair (RYAAY) and American Airlines Group (AAL) Head to Head Survey
carrier. It provides scheduled air transportation services for passengers and cargo. As of December 31, 2017, the 
company operated a mainline fleet of 948 aircraft. It serves 350 destinations in approximately 50 countries, 
principally from its hubs in Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, and 
Phoenix, as well as in Washington, D.C. The company was formerly known as AMR Corporation and changed its 
name to American Airlines Group Inc. in December 2013. American Airlines Group Inc. was founded in 1934 and is 
headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas. 
Load-Date: June 21, 2018
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Wednesday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Wednesday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
June 20, 2018 Wednesday 11:11 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 225 words
Body
 American depositary receipts of European stocks were trading 0.30% higher at 135.82 on the Bank of New York 
Mellon Europe ADR Index on Wednesday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by pharmaceutical company Oasmia Pharmaceutical (OASM), and 
marketing firm Criteo (CRTO), which rose 9.2% and 2.7% respectively. They were followed by biotech company 
MorphoSys (MOR), which was up 1%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by 3D printer maker voxeljet (VJET), and semiconductor company 
STMicroelectronics (STM), which fell 2.7% and 2.0% respectively. They were followed by biopharmaceutical firm 
DBV Technologies (DBVT), and ASML (ASML), a manufacturer of chip-making equipment, which dropped 1.3% 
and 0.6%.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by airline operator Ryanair (RYAAY), and consumer goods company 
British American Tobacco (BTI), which climbed 3.0% and 2.5% respectively. They were followed by 
telecommunications provider BT Group (BT), and biopharmaceutical firm Amarin (AMRN), which were up 2.4% and 
1.3%.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by biotech firm Trinity Biotech (TRIB), which lost 0.8%, followed by 
mining companies BHP Billiton (BBL) and Rio Tinto (RIO), which were off 0.4% and 0.3% respectively. Gene 
therapy company Nightstar (NITE) was down 0.2%.
Price: 1.45, Change: +0.10, Percent Change: +7.61
Load-Date: June 21, 2018
European ADRs Move Higher in Wednesday Trading
End of Document
Diversified Trust Co Sells 1,446 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Diversified Trust Co Sells 1,446 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
June 20, 2018 Wednesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 736 words
Body
Ryanair logo Diversified Trust Co reduced its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 8.5% 
in the 1st quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. The institutional investor  owned 15,626 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 
1,446 shares during the quarter. Diversified Trust Co's holdings in Ryanair were worth $1,920,000 at the end of the 
most recent reporting period.  
Other hedge funds also recently made changes to their positions in the company. Renaissance Technologies LLC 
boosted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 28.6% in the fourth quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC now owns 
3,473,819 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $361,937,000 after acquiring an additional 772,300 
shares during the last quarter.  Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA boosted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 
53.3% in the first quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,217,338 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $272,400,000 after acquiring an additional 770,774 shares during the last 
quarter.  FIL Ltd boosted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 659.3% in the first quarter. FIL Ltd now owns 575,221 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $70,665,000 after acquiring an additional 499,469 shares during 
the last quarter.  Thornburg Investment Management Inc. boosted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 20.4% in the 
first quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $242,499,000 after acquiring an additional 334,623 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Lazard 
Asset Management LLC boosted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 12.6% in the fourth quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $302,744,000 after 
acquiring an additional 325,932 shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors own  43.69% of the company's 
stock.  
NASDAQ RYAAY  opened at $113.61 on Wednesday. The firm has a market cap of $27.32 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of 16.11 and a beta of 0.64. The company has a current ratio of 1.23, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a debt-
to-equity ratio of 0.79. Ryanair Holdings plc has a fifty-two week low of $101.10 and a fifty-two week high of 
$127.61.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, beating the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return 
on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, 
compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion.  equities analysts anticipate that  Ryanair Holdings plc will 
post 7.08 EPS for the current year.  
Diversified Trust Co Sells 1,446 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
A number of analysts have recently issued reports on the company. BidaskClub lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating 
to a "hold" rating in a research note on Tuesday. Exane BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating 
to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Deutsche Bank  reaffirmed a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. Finally, ValuEngine  lowered Ryanair from a "buy" 
rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Wednesday, May 9th. Three investment analysts have rated the stock 
with a sell rating, seven have issued  a hold rating and two have given a buy rating to the company's stock. The 
company  has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average price target of $110.50. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 20, 2018
End of Document
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 20.06.2018 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 20.06.2018 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
June 20, 2018 Wednesday 8:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 443 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - The following investment banks issued recommendations this morning as follows:  
Analyst recommendations in the dpa-AFX International ProFeed on 20.06.2018 - 08.50 am  - HAUCK & 
AUFHAEUSER CUTS WACKER CHEMIE PRICE TARGET TO 157 (169) EUR - 'BUY' - HAUCK & AUFHAEUSER 
RAISES HEIDELBERGER DRUCK TO 'HOLD' (SELL) - PRICE TARGET 2.30 EUR  - MS CUTS STARBUCKS TO 
'EQUAL-WEIGHT' (OVERWEIGHT) - PRICE TARGET 59 (72) USD  - BERENBERG CUTS TRIFAST TO 'HOLD' 
('BUY') - TARGET 275 PENCE - BERENBERG RAISES CARNIVAL PLC PRICE TARGET TO 5300 (5050) PENCE 
- 'HOLD' - BERENBERG RAISES GOCOMPARE PRICE TARGET TO 150 (145) PENCE - 'BUY' - BERENBERG 
RAISES ORANGE PRICE TARGET TO 16.30 (15.40) EUR - 'HOLD' - BERENBERG RAISES TESCO PRICE 
TARGET TO 295 (265) PENCE - 'BUY' - CREDIT SUISSE CUTS UNILEVER NV PRICE TARGET TO 47 (50) EUR 
- 'NEUTRAL' - CREDIT SUISSE RAISES FERGUSON PRICE TARGET TO 6750 (6280) PENCE - 
'OUTPERFORM' - DAVY ADDS RYANAIR TO 'CONVICTION LIST' - RETAIN 'OUTPERFORM' RATING - DAVY 
CUTS EASYJET TO 'NEUTRAL' ('OUTPERFORM') - TARGET 1850 PENCE - DAVY RAISES WIZZ AIR TO 
'OUTPERFORM' ('NEUTRAL') - TARGET 4200 PENCE - DEUTSCHE BANK CUTS CAPITA GROUP PRICE 
TARGET TO 175 (180) PENCE - 'HOLD' - DEUTSCHE BANK CUTS DEBENHAMS PRICE TARGET TO 19 (27) 
PENCE - 'HOLD' - DEUTSCHE BANK CUTS MCCARTHY & STONE PRICE TARGET TO 165 (189) PENCE - 
'BUY' - GOLDMAN CUTS FERGUSON PRICE TARGET TO 6700 (6966.67) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - GOLDMAN 
CUTS NEXANS TO 'BUY' (CONVICTION BUY LIST) - PRICE TARGET 46 (60) EUR - GOLDMAN RAISES BP 
PRICE TARGET TO 700 (670) PENCE - 'BUY' - GOLDMAN RAISES SHELL B PRICE TARGET TO 3040 (2980) 
PENCE - 'BUY' - HSBC CUTS BBVA PRICE TARGET TO 7.60 (7.90) EUR - 'BUY' - HSBC RAISES AHOLD 
DELHAIZE PRICE TARGET TO 23 (21) EUR - 'BUY' - HSBC RAISES MEDICLINIC INTERNATIONAL TO 'HOLD' 
('REDUCE') - TARGET 540 PENCE - JEFFERIES CUTS MCCARTHY & STONE TO 'HOLD' ('BUY') - TARGET 116 
(267) PENCE - JEFFERIES RAISES BT GROUP TO 'BUY' ('HOLD') - TARGET 245 (215) PENCE - JPMORGAN 
CUTS TELECOM PLUS PRICE TARGET TO 1200 (1250) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - JPMORGAN RAISES BANCO 
SANTANDER PRICE TARGET TO 7.10 (7) EUR - 'OVERWEIGHT' - LIBERUM INITIATES BAT WITH 'BUY' - 
TARGET 4100 PENCE - LIBERUM INITIATES IMPERIAL BRANDS WITH 'BUY' - TARGET 3100 PENCE - 
LIBERUM RAISES ASTRAZENECA PRICE TARGET TO 5300 (5000) PENCE - 'HOLD' - PEEL HUNT RAISES 
OCADO PRICE TARGET TO 1700 (610) PENCE - 'BUY' - RBC CUTS SSE TO 'SECTOR PERFORM' 
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 20.06.2018 - 08.50 am
('OUTPERFORM') - TARGET 1350 (1550) PENCE - RBC RAISES IAG PRICE TARGET TO 740 (675) PENCE - 
'SECTOR PERFORM'   dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH assumes no liability for the  correctness of this 
information./rob    
Load-Date: June 20, 2018
End of Document
Diversified Trust Co Sells 1,446 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Diversified Trust Co Sells 1,446 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Transcript Daily
June 20, 2018 Wednesday 10:25 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 773 words
Body
Jun 20, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Diversified Trust Co reduced its 
stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 8.5% in the 1st quarter, according to the company in 
its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The institutional investor owned 15,626 
shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 1,446 shares during the quarter. Diversified Trust Co's 
holdings in Ryanair were worth $1,920,000 at the end of the most recent reporting period. 
Other hedge funds also recently made changes to their positions in the company. Renaissance Technologies LLC 
boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 28.6% in the fourth quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC now owns 
3,473,819 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $361,937,000 after acquiring an additional 772,300 
shares during the last quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 
53.3% in the first quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,217,338 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $272,400,000 after acquiring an additional 770,774 shares during the last 
quarter. FIL Ltd boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 659.3% in the first quarter. FIL Ltd now owns 575,221 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $70,665,000 after acquiring an additional 499,469 shares during 
the last quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 20.4% in the first 
quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $242,499,000 after acquiring an additional 334,623 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Lazard Asset 
Management LLC boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 12.6% in the fourth quarter. Lazard Asset Management 
LLC now owns 2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $302,744,000 after acquiring an 
additional 325,932 shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors own 43.69% of the company's stock. 
NASDAQ RYAAY[1] opened at $113.61 on Wednesday. The firm has a market cap of $27.32 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of 16.11 and a beta of 0.64. The company has a current ratio of 1.23, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a debt-
to-equity ratio of 0.79. Ryanair Holdings plc has a fifty-two week low of $101.10 and a fifty-two week high of 
$127.61. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, beating the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair 
had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion for the 
quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion. equities analysts anticipate that Ryanair Holdings plc 
will post 7.08 EPS for the current year. A number of analysts have recently issued reports on the company. 
BidaskClub lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Tuesday. Exane BNP 
Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. 
BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 
7th. Deutsche Bank reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. 
Diversified Trust Co Sells 1,446 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Finally, ValuEngine[2] lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Wednesday, May 
9th. Three investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, seven have issued a hold rating and two have 
given a buy rating to the company's stock. The company has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average price 
target of $110.50.Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-
passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers 
various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets 
accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food, and merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
[ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
Load-Date: June 20, 2018
End of Document
German pilots halt pay talks with Ryanair as strike ballot proceeds
German pilots halt pay talks with Ryanair as strike ballot proceeds
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
June 20, 2018 Wednesday 3:23 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 104 words
Byline: Christian Ebner in Frankfurt
Dateline: Frankfurt (dpa) - 
Body
The Cockpit union of German pilots has broken off pay talks with budget airline Ryanair, accusing the Ireland-based 
company of being uncooperative, a Cockpit spokesman said in Frankfurt on Wednesday.
Ryanair representatives had failed to arrive for agreed appointments, the spokesman said.
A strike now looms at the German locations operated by Europe's largest budget carrier. Cockpit has initiated a 
ballot of its members working for Ryanair, the spokesman said.
Dublin-based Ryanair is facing conflict with its pilots in Ireland as well.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Rohan MinogueTel: +49 30 2852-31472; <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: June 21, 2018
End of Document
German pilots halt pay talks with Ryanair as strike ballot proceeds
German pilots halt pay talks with Ryanair as strike ballot proceeds
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
June 20, 2018 Wednesday 3:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 98 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - The Cockpit union of German pilots has broken off pay talks with budget airline 
Ryanair, accusing the Ireland-based company of being uncooperative, a Cockpit spokesman said in Frankfurt on 
Wednesday.  Ryanair representatives had failed to arrive for agreed appointments, the spokesman said.  A strike 
now looms at the German locations operated by Europe's largest budget carrier. Cockpit has initiated a ballot of its 
members working for Ryanair, the spokesman said.  Dublin-based Ryanair is facing conflict with its pilots in Ireland 
as well.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: June 20, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair 's Irish union extends vote on possible strike action
Ryanair's Irish union extends vote on possible strike action
Business World (Digest)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 247 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair's Irish union extended a ballot on industrial action by two weeks on Tuesday, saying its members wanted 
more time to consider the move, which could lead to a strike.
Europe's biggest budget airline averted widespread strikes before last Christmas by agreeing to recognize trade 
unions for the first time in its 32-year history.
But the airline, which operates in 37 countries and last year carried some 130 million passengers, has since 
struggled to reach agreement on terms in some countries.
This has led to minor disruption in Germany and Portugal and the Irish Air Line Pilots' Association (IALPA) said it 
would ballot pilots if a new system for dealing with base allocations, promotions, and leave was not introduced.
IALPA began the ballot last week, a letter to members seen by Reuters on Monday showed and the results were 
due on Tuesday.
However, a memo circulated by IALPA later on Monday said it had extended the vote to July 3, giving pilots more 
time to consider "such an important matter" and avoiding a clash with a meeting of Ryanair's unions across Europe 
organized by the European Cockpit Association.
"It is self-evident that Ryanair and its on-going disputes with pilots across Europe will be a feature on the agenda of 
the ECA Conference," it said.
A spokesman for Ryanair, which this month signed its first cabin crew union recognition agreements with staff in 
Italy and Britain, was not immediately available for comment. (Reuters)
Ryanair 's Irish union extends vote on possible strike action
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: July 13, 2018
End of Document
BBT Securities LLC Has $1.02 Million Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
BBT Securities LLC Has $1.02 Million Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
Watchlist News
June 19, 2018 Tuesday 10:41 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 706 words
Body
Jun 19, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  BB...ecurities LLC raised its 
holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 37.7% during the first quarter, according to the company in 
its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The institutional investor 
owned 8,331 shares of the transportation company's stock after buying an additional 2,279 shares during the 
period. BB...ecurities LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $1,023,000 as of its most recent SEC filing. Other 
institutional investors have also bought and sold shares of the company. 
US Bancorp DE increased its position in shares of Ryanair by 168.2% during the fourth quarter. US Bancorp DE 
now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $122,000 after purchasing an additional 735 
shares in the last quarter. Assetmark Inc. increased its position in shares of Ryanair by 64.0% during the fourth 
quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $138,000 after 
purchasing an additional 516 shares in the last quarter. Tower Research Capital LLC TRC acquired a new stake in 
shares of Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth about $148,000. Elkfork Partners LLC acquired a new stake in 
shares of Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth about $166,000. Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA increased its 
position in shares of Ryanair by 2,506.9% during the fourth quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $195,000 after purchasing an additional 1,805 shares in the last 
quarter. Institutional investors own 43.69% of the company's stock. NASDAQ RYAAY[1] opened at $113.89 on 
Tuesday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a current ratio of 1.23. Ryanair 
Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $101.10 and a 52-week high of $127.61. The stock has a market cap of $27.32 
billion, a P/E ratio of 16.15 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings 
results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, 
topping the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net 
margin of 20.13%. The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 
billion. analysts predict that Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year. A 
number of analysts have recently commented on RYAAY shares. BidaskClub upgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating 
to a "strong-buy" rating in a research report on Wednesday, February 21st. Zacks Investment Research[2] raised 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target on the stock in a report on Thursday, 
March 29th. ValuEngine[3] lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Wednesday, May 
9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank reissued a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, May 22nd. Three 
research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have assigned a hold rating and three have assigned a 
buy rating to the stock. Ryanair presently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average price target of 
BBT Securities LLC Has $1.02 Million Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
$110.50.Ryanair ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline 
services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary 
services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services 
and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and 
merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the 
latest 
13F 
filings 
and 
insider 
trades 
for 
Ryanair 
Holdings 
plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
[ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
Load-Date: June 19, 2018
End of Document
BB&T Securities LLC Has $1.02 Million Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
BB&T Securities LLC Has $1.02 Million Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 656 words
Body
Ryanair logo BB&T Securities LLC raised its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 37.7% during 
the first quarter, according to the company in its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). The institutional investor  owned 8,331 shares of the transportation company's stock after 
buying an additional 2,279 shares during the period. BB&T Securities LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth 
$1,023,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
Other institutional investors have also bought and sold shares of the company. US Bancorp DE increased its 
position in shares of  Ryanair by 168.2% during the fourth quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $122,000 after purchasing an additional 735 shares in the last quarter.  
Assetmark Inc. increased its position in shares of  Ryanair by 64.0% during the fourth quarter. Assetmark Inc. now 
owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $138,000 after purchasing an additional 516 shares 
in the last quarter.  Tower Research Capital LLC TRC acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the fourth 
quarter worth about $148,000.  Elkfork Partners LLC acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the fourth 
quarter worth about $166,000.  Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA increased its position in shares of  Ryanair by 
2,506.9% during the fourth quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $195,000 after purchasing an additional 1,805 shares in the last quarter. Institutional 
investors own  43.69% of the company's stock.  
NASDAQ RYAAY  opened at $113.89 on Tuesday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 
1.23 and a current ratio of 1.23. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $101.10 and a 52-week high of 
$127.61. The stock has a market cap of $27.32 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.15 and a beta of 0.64.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 
by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. The firm had revenue of $1.62 
billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion.  analysts predict that  Ryanair Holdings plc will 
post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
A number of analysts have recently commented on RYAAY shares. BidaskClub upgraded Ryanair from a "buy" 
rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a research report on Wednesday, February 21st. Zacks Investment Research  
raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target on the stock in a report on 
Thursday, March 29th.            ValuEngine  lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on 
BB&T Securities LLC Has $1.02 Million Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank  reissued a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, 
May 22nd. Three research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have assigned  a hold rating and 
three have assigned  a buy rating to the stock. Ryanair presently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average 
price target of $110.50. 
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 19, 2018
End of Document
Couple Having Sex On Mexico -Bound Flight Seen In Viral Video
Couple Having Sex On Mexico-Bound Flight Seen In Viral Video
International Business Times News
June 19, 2018 Tuesday 2:51 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 333 words
Body
Jun 19, 2018( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)  A couple on a 
Mexico-bound plane were allegedly having sex and the incident was caught on camera. According to the Daily Mail, 
a husband and wife who were traveling on the same plane saw the couplesitting two rows behind appearing to 
bejoining the Mile High Club. 
The video was posted onTwitterby a user named Kiley Tully writing: "My mom and dad were just trying to have a 
peaceful trip toMexicoand then they sent me this." The video received more than3.5 million views and showed a 
womanappearing to be straddling her companion on a seat. It is unclear where in Mexico the plane was traveling to. 
This is not the first time such an incident took place. Previously several incidents took place wherevideos of couples 
getting in the Mile High Club surfaced online. Last year in October, two strangers were seen joining the infamous 
"Mile-High Club" upon boarding a Delta Air Lines flight headingfrom Los Angeles to Detriot.A 48-year-old woman 
was seemingly caught performing oral sex on a 28-year-old man while they were in theirseats. Later, the man 
involved claimed in a nine-page police report the woman had "fallen asleep in his lap" and he simply "grabbed her 
breasts." In another incident last year, a video was posted online showing a couple engaging in a sexual act aboard 
a Ryanair flight from Manchester to Ibiza. At one point, the man involved is heard asking a fellow passengers if 
anyone had a condom. A spokesperson for the airline told the Daily Mail at the time the incident was being 
investigated. The representative added, 'We will not tolerate unruly, disruptive or inappropriate behavior at any time 
and any passengers who appear to behave in an unacceptable manner may be liable for further sanctions.'This is a 
representational image showing video screens built into the backs of passenger seats on a Boeing 737-900ER 
aircraft in San Diego, California, Jan. 10, 2018. Photo: Reuters 
Load-Date: June 19, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian shares soar as Lufthansa chief shows interest in acquisition
Norwegian shares soar as Lufthansa chief shows interest in acquisition
Financial Times (London, England)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 11
Length: 331 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Shares in Norwegian Air Shuttle rose 10 per cent after the chief executive of rival Lufthansa said that his company 
was interested in buying the Scandinavian low-cost carrier.
Talking to the Süddeutsche Zeitung newspaper in Germany, Carsten Spohr said: "Everyone in Europe is talking to 
everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation. This means that we are also in contact with 
Norwegian."
He said that all acquisitions were a matter of value, price and opportunity, with "no simple answers".
Lufthansa declined to answer further questions. Norwegian said that it had received several expressions of 
"indicative and preliminary interest in share acquisitions, mergers ... and various forms of operational and financial 
cooperation".
Norwegian has said previously that it has had conversations with several potential suitors about a takeover. British 
Airways owner IAG bought 4.6 per cent of Norwegian in April 2018 and made two approaches to buy the carrier for 
an undisclosed price, both of which were rejected by Norwegian's board.
Analysts were sceptical about a Lufthansa/Norwegian deal, saying it made less strategic sense for Lufthansa than 
for IAG. "The synergy values would be a lot less at Lufthansa," said Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein.
Norwegian shares soar as Lufthansa chief shows interest in acquisition
Unlike Lufthansa, BA would be able to protect its North Atlantic routes from Norwegian's long-haul low-cost 
services, it would increase its fleet and it would win more slots at Gatwick airport, which is operating near capacity. 
Bjorn Kjos, Norwegian's chief executive and joint biggest shareholder, said Norwegian had had discussions with 
budget carrier Ryanair. Ryanair denied this: "We have not made an approach to Norwegian and we have no 
interest."
A spate of consolidations in the European aviation industry has followed the failure of several airlines in 2017: BA 
bought Monarch Airlines' Gatwick slots; Lufthansa bought parts of Air Berlin; and Lufthansa and easyJet have both 
expressed an interest in Alitalia. Lex page 10
Load-Date: June 19, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian shares soar as Lufthansa chief shows interest in acquisition
Norwegian shares soar as Lufthansa chief shows interest in acquisition
Financial Times (London, England)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 331 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Shares in Norwegian Air Shuttle rose 10 per cent after the chief executive of rival Lufthansa said that his company 
was interested in buying the Scandinavian low-cost carrier.
Talking to the Süddeutsche Zeitung newspaper in Germany, Carsten Spohr said: "Everyone in Europe is talking to 
everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation. This means that we are also in contact with 
Norwegian."
He said that all acquisitions were a matter of value, price and opportunity, with "no simple answers".
Lufthansa declined to answer further questions. Norwegian said that it had received several expressions of 
"indicative and preliminary interest in share acquisitions, mergers ... and various forms of operational and financial 
cooperation".
Norwegian has said previously that it has had conversations with several potential suitors about a takeover. British 
Airways owner IAG bought 4.6 per cent of Norwegian in April 2018 and made two approaches to buy the carrier for 
an undisclosed price, both of which were rejected by Norwegian's board.
Analysts were sceptical about a Lufthansa/Norwegian deal, saying it made less strategic sense for Lufthansa than 
for IAG. "The synergy values would be a lot less at Lufthansa," said Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein.
Norwegian shares soar as Lufthansa chief shows interest in acquisition
Unlike Lufthansa, BA would be able to protect its North Atlantic routes from Norwegian's long-haul low-cost 
services, it would increase its fleet and it would win more slots at Gatwick airport, which is operating near capacity. 
Bjorn Kjos, Norwegian's chief executive and joint biggest shareholder, said Norwegian had had discussions with 
budget carrier Ryanair. Ryanair denied this: "We have not made an approach to Norwegian and we have no 
interest."
A spate of consolidations in the European aviation industry has followed the failure of several airlines in 2017: BA 
bought Monarch Airlines' Gatwick slots; Lufthansa bought parts of Air Berlin; and Lufthansa and easyJet have both 
expressed an interest in Alitalia. Lex page 10
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
Norwegian shares soar as Lufthansa chief shows interest in acquisition
Norwegian shares soar as Lufthansa chief shows interest in acquisition
Financial Times (London, England)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 331 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Shares in Norwegian Air Shuttle rose 10 per cent after the chief executive of rival Lufthansa said that his company 
was interested in buying the Scandinavian low-cost carrier.
Talking to the Süddeutsche Zeitung newspaper in Germany, Carsten Spohr said: "Everyone in Europe is talking to 
everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation. This means that we are also in contact with 
Norwegian."
He said that all acquisitions were a matter of value, price and opportunity, with "no simple answers".
Lufthansa declined to answer further questions. Norwegian said that it had received several expressions of 
"indicative and preliminary interest in share acquisitions, mergers ... and various forms of operational and financial 
cooperation".
Norwegian has said previously that it has had conversations with several potential suitors about a takeover. British 
Airways owner IAG bought 4.6 per cent of Norwegian in April 2018 and made two approaches to buy the carrier for 
an undisclosed price, both of which were rejected by Norwegian's board.
Analysts were sceptical about a Lufthansa/Norwegian deal, saying it made less strategic sense for Lufthansa than 
for IAG. "The synergy values would be a lot less at Lufthansa," said Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein.
Norwegian shares soar as Lufthansa chief shows interest in acquisition
Unlike Lufthansa, BA would be able to protect its North Atlantic routes from Norwegian's long-haul low-cost 
services, it would increase its fleet and it would win more slots at Gatwick airport, which is operating near capacity. 
Bjorn Kjos, Norwegian's chief executive and joint biggest shareholder, said Norwegian had had discussions with 
budget carrier Ryanair. Ryanair denied this: "We have not made an approach to Norwegian and we have no 
interest."
A spate of consolidations in the European aviation industry has followed the failure of several airlines in 2017: BA 
bought Monarch Airlines' Gatwick slots; Lufthansa bought parts of Air Berlin; and Lufthansa and easyJet have both 
expressed an interest in Alitalia. Lex page 10
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa / Norwegian : carried away
Lufthansa/Norwegian: carried away
Financial Times (London, England)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, Middle East Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 10
Length: 396 words
Body
Success at poker takes guile, luck and calculation. Europe's airline bosses need those qualities to profit from their 
industry's consolidation too. Lufthansa has upped the stakes by expressing an interest in buying Norwegian Air 
Shuttle. The move sent the low-cost carrier's share price up 12 per cent.
The move might be a bluff, some say.
Bidding up the price of Norwegian would make life tougher for would-be acquirer IAG. It would not be the first such 
accusation. When Ryanair was said to be in the running, boss Michael O'Leary accused Norwegian of "trying to 
manufacture a mythical interest".
But Lufthansa could be serious. It has made it clear it wants to participate in the wave of mergers in Europe's 
fragmented airline industry. It could be in the running to buy struggling Alitalia, though the sale is being held up by 
political turmoil. Having modernised its fleet and improved its margins, Lufthansa has the financial muscle to deal 
with Norwegian. The rapid growth of the airline run by Bjorn Kjos, the "Freddie Laker of the fiords", has created 
deep losses and debts.
Even so, the merits of such a tie-up are limited. The operations of the two airlines are poorly matched. Nor would 
Lufthansa have a need for all the spare aircraft that would come with a Norwegian deal.
IAG would be a better fit. The benefits would go beyond the ability to damp down transatlantic competition. These, 
however would be significant given that Norwegian's biggest longhaul base is at London Gatwick, in British Airways' 
backyard. If Norwegian was valued at five times ebitdar, a cash earnings measure that includes rental costs, it 
Lufthansa / Norwegian : carried away
would be worth (EURO)1.6bn, say analysts, after deducting net debts of (EURO)5.2bn. But this depends on cost 
cuts and, more nebulously, socalled "marketing synergies" totalling (EURO)3.3bn when taxed and capitalised.
The implicit share price would be 30 per cent above current levels. That looks a stretch. The risks involved in buying 
Norwegian are real. Success is not guaranteed when it comes to applying the low-cost model to the long-haul 
market, where costs among the legacy airlines are already low.
After two rejected approaches, IAG insists it will not enter a bidding war for Norwegian. The share price is already 
two-fifths higher than in the months before IAG revealed its interest. Investors expecting further gains risk 
overplaying their hands.
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude Qatar carrier chief 's remark that no female could do his job 
underlines challenge for industry trailing on ge....
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude; Qatar carrier chief 's 
remark that no female could do his job underlines challenge for industry 
trailing on gender issue
Financial Times (London, England)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 936 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
When the chief executive of Qatar Airways said this month that a woman could not do his job, industry leaders were 
quick to criticise. Akbar Al Baker was equally speedy in issuing his "heartfelt apologies" for a remark that has stirred 
up the gender debate in the aviation sector.
Whether it is in the boardroom or the cockpit, the aviation industry trails on the issue of gender and diversity. Only 3 
per cent of airline chief executives are women, according to a 2017 survey by industry journal Airline Business of 
the 100 biggest carriers by revenue. This compared with 7 per cent in the FTSE 100 at the time of the study.
The irony was not lost on some that when Mr Baker made his comments, he had just been appointed chairman of 
the International Air Transport Association's board of governors, which only has two women out of 31 members.
When it comes to pilots, the figures are just as unforgiving. In the US in 2017, just 7 per cent of 609,000 pilots were 
women, according to data from the Federal Aviation Administration.
Yet Mr Baker's comments demonstrated at least one positive thing, according to Christine OurmiÈres-Widener, 
chief executive of UK regional airline Flybe and one of the two women on the Iata board.
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude Qatar carrier chief 's remark that no female could do his job 
underlines challenge for industry trailing on ge....
Even five years ago, she said, no one senior would have condemned him. "[Mr Baker's remarks are] putting more 
emphasis [on the issue] and it could help in the change," she said. "What happened is good for diversity and gender 
in our industry."
However, the figures illustrate how much further the industry needs to progress, particularly in areas such as pay.
As part of a transparency initiative, the UK government uncovered large gender pay gaps in aviation. Ryanair's 
median hourly rate for women was 72 per cent lower than for men, easyJet's was 46 per cent lower and British Air-
ways' 10 per cent lower. The median pay gap across the UK was 9.7 per cent, while Ryanair had only 3 per cent of 
women in its top quartile by pay.
Personal experiences of some women in the industry also highlight disturbing examples of discrimination.
Kathy McCullough, who started as a pilot in the early 1980s, said in the first years of her career discrimination was 
overt. "You should be home barefoot and pregnant in the kitchen," was the attitude directed at her, she said. "I just 
tried not to bristle."
Ms McCullough, who retired as a captain flying 747s out of Anchorage, Alaska, for Northwest Airlines (now part of 
Delta), added that there were also subtler means of undermining female pilots in the industry. For example, men 
made checkrides - practical flying tests - more difficult for women by "overloading them" and giving them "too many 
emergencies to deal with at one time".
"A lot of the time on the way up, when we're flying for smaller airlines, the check airmen know that they're 
competing for the same jobs as a woman so they make it harder or bust them because they know the airlines won't 
hire women with records that are blemished."
Many of those men were ex-military, Ms McCullough said, a reference echoed by Beverley Harrison, archivist for 
the British Women Pilots' Associaton and a retired RAF officer. She says that "the whole commercial flying world 
has had a tendency to be 'fed' by retired RAF pilots", and as those full-time pilots were only men until the early 
1990s, there has been a systemic shortage of women.
Cindy Youngblood, a private jet pilot, says that early in her career she was surprised by a source of discontent: her 
colleagues' wives.
When going for a job, a potential employer told her, "very nicely, that he would hire me but his wife would divorce 
him". Ms Youngblood says she appreciated his candour - she was not left questioning her ability - but points out he 
could not say that today.
Aside from that, Ms Youngblood says the men she has worked with have been "wonderful and supportive" and that 
she has not experienced the difficulties other women report.
Ms OurmiÈres-Widener trained as an aeronautical engineer before moving into management and even today finds 
men patronising her, avoiding technical terms in case she does not understand.
In the allied field of aircraft brokerage, the few female brokers find themselves excluded, says René Banglesdorf, 
chief executive of Charlie Bravo Aviation. There are "the slights that come with not being part of the good old boys' 
club" and no appreciation for the intellectual diversity women bring, she added.
At conferences, Ms Banglesdorf said she was one of few women in attendance. "Sometimes that feels great 
because I feel like I can stand out, and sometimes it feels isolated because I stand out." At the CAPA, the Centre 
for Aviation conference in Ireland in May, there were several manels - men-only panels - and at IATA's annual 
meeting, where Mr Baker made his remarks, male speakers outnumbered female ones by 19 to five.
However, progress is being made with networks to promote and support female pilots such as the International 
Aviation Womens Association.
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude Qatar carrier chief 's remark that no female could do his job 
underlines challenge for industry trailing on ge....
A second organisation, Women in Aviation International, has more than 12,000 active members, is running its fourth 
Girls in Aviation Day this October and has provided $11.5m in scholarships since 1995. Its corporate sponsors 
include large airlines, aircraft manufacturers and even Amazon.
Ms McCullough worries that progress can be slow in areas such as maternity leave, which has discouraged women 
from being pilots. "We are making progress but we shouldn't still have to be having issues like maternity leave in 
this day and age - but we do."
'Sometimes it feels great because I can stand out, and sometimes it feels isolated because I stand out'
Graphic
 
In the US, just 7 per cent of pilots were women in 2017 according to the Federal Aviation Administration John 
Hollidge/Alamy
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude Qatar carrier chief 's remark that no female could do his job 
underlines challenge for industry trailing on ge....
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude; Qatar carrier chief 's 
remark that no female could do his job underlines challenge for industry 
trailing on gender issue
Financial Times (London, England)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 15
Length: 936 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
When the chief executive of Qatar Airways said this month that a woman could not do his job, industry leaders were 
quick to criticise. Akbar Al Baker was equally speedy in issuing his "heartfelt apologies" for a remark that has stirred 
up the gender debate in the aviation sector.
Whether it is in the boardroom or the cockpit, the aviation industry trails on the issue of gender and diversity. Only 3 
per cent of airline chief executives are women, according to a 2017 survey by industry journal Airline Business of 
the 100 biggest carriers by revenue. This compared with 7 per cent in the FTSE 100 at the time of the study.
The irony was not lost on some that when Mr Baker made his comments, he had just been appointed chairman of 
the International Air Transport Association's board of governors, which only has two women out of 31 members.
When it comes to pilots, the figures are just as unforgiving. In the US in 2017, just 7 per cent of 609,000 pilots were 
women, according to data from the Federal Aviation Administration.
Yet Mr Baker's comments demonstrated at least one positive thing, according to Christine OurmiÈres-Widener, 
chief executive of UK regional airline Flybe and one of the two women on the Iata board.
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude Qatar carrier chief 's remark that no female could do his job 
underlines challenge for industry trailing on ge....
Even five years ago, she said, no one senior would have condemned him. "[Mr Baker's remarks are] putting more 
emphasis [on the issue] and it could help in the change," she said. "What happened is good for diversity and gender 
in our industry."
However, the figures illustrate how much further the industry needs to progress, particularly in areas such as pay.
As part of a transparency initiative, the UK government uncovered large gender pay gaps in aviation. Ryanair's 
median hourly rate for women was 72 per cent lower than for men, easyJet's was 46 per cent lower and British Air-
ways' 10 per cent lower. The median pay gap across the UK was 9.7 per cent, while Ryanair had only 3 per cent of 
women in its top quartile by pay.
Personal experiences of some women in the industry also highlight disturbing examples of discrimination.
Kathy McCullough, who started as a pilot in the early 1980s, said in the first years of her career discrimination was 
overt. "You should be home barefoot and pregnant in the kitchen," was the attitude directed at her, she said. "I just 
tried not to bristle."
Ms McCullough, who retired as a captain flying 747s out of Anchorage, Alaska, for Northwest Airlines (now part of 
Delta), added that there were also subtler means of undermining female pilots in the industry. For example, men 
made checkrides - practical flying tests - more difficult for women by "overloading them" and giving them "too many 
emergencies to deal with at one time".
"A lot of the time on the way up, when we're flying for smaller airlines, the check airmen know that they're 
competing for the same jobs as a woman so they make it harder or bust them because they know the airlines won't 
hire women with records that are blemished."
Many of those men were ex-military, Ms McCullough said, a reference echoed by Beverley Harrison, archivist for 
the British Women Pilots' Associaton and a retired RAF officer. She says that "the whole commercial flying world 
has had a tendency to be 'fed' by retired RAF pilots", and as those full-time pilots were only men until the early 
1990s, there has been a systemic shortage of women.
Cindy Youngblood, a private jet pilot, says that early in her career she was surprised by a source of discontent: her 
colleagues' wives.
When going for a job, a potential employer told her, "very nicely, that he would hire me but his wife would divorce 
him". Ms Youngblood says she appreciated his candour - she was not left questioning her ability - but points out he 
could not say that today.
Aside from that, Ms Youngblood says the men she has worked with have been "wonderful and supportive" and that 
she has not experienced the difficulties other women report.
Ms OurmiÈres-Widener trained as an aeronautical engineer before moving into management and even today finds 
men patronising her, avoiding technical terms in case she does not understand.
In the allied field of aircraft brokerage, the few female brokers find themselves excluded, says René Banglesdorf, 
chief executive of Charlie Bravo Aviation. There are "the slights that come with not being part of the good old boys' 
club" and no appreciation for the intellectual diversity women bring, she added.
At conferences, Ms Banglesdorf said she was one of few women in attendance. "Sometimes that feels great 
because I feel like I can stand out, and sometimes it feels isolated because I stand out." At the CAPA, the Centre 
for Aviation conference in Ireland in May, there were several manels - men-only panels - and at IATA's annual 
meeting, where Mr Baker made his remarks, male speakers outnumbered female ones by 19 to five.
However, progress is being made with networks to promote and support female pilots such as the International 
Aviation Womens Association.
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude Qatar carrier chief 's remark that no female could do his job 
underlines challenge for industry trailing on ge....
A second organisation, Women in Aviation International, has more than 12,000 active members, is running its fourth 
Girls in Aviation Day this October and has provided $11.5m in scholarships since 1995. Its corporate sponsors 
include large airlines, aircraft manufacturers and even Amazon.
Ms McCullough worries that progress can be slow in areas such as maternity leave, which has discouraged women 
from being pilots. "We are making progress but we shouldn't still have to be having issues like maternity leave in 
this day and age - but we do."
'Sometimes it feels great because I can stand out, and sometimes it feels isolated because I stand out'
Graphic
 
John Hollidge/AlamyIn the US, just 7 per cent of pilots were women in 2017 according to the Federal Aviation 
Administration John Hollidge/Alamy
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude Qatar carrier chief 's remark that no female could do his job 
underlines challenge for industry trailing on ge....
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude; Qatar carrier chief 's 
remark that no female could do his job underlines challenge for industry 
trailing on gender issue
Financial Times (London, England)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 936 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
When the chief executive of Qatar Airways said this month that a woman could not do his job, industry leaders were 
quick to criticise. Akbar Al Baker was equally speedy in issuing his "heartfelt apologies" for a remark that has stirred 
up the gender debate in the aviation sector.
Whether it is in the boardroom or the cockpit, the aviation industry trails on the issue of gender and diversity. Only 3 
per cent of airline chief executives are women, according to a 2017 survey by industry journal Airline Business of 
the 100 biggest carriers by revenue. This compared with 7 per cent in the FTSE 100 at the time of the study.
The irony was not lost on some that when Mr Baker made his comments, he had just been appointed chairman of 
the International Air Transport Association's board of governors, which only has two women out of 31 members.
When it comes to pilots, the figures are just as unforgiving. In the US in 2017, just 7 per cent of 609,000 pilots were 
women, according to data from the Federal Aviation Administration.
Yet Mr Baker's comments demonstrated at least one positive thing, according to Christine OurmiÈres-Widener, 
chief executive of UK regional airline Flybe and one of the two women on the Iata board.
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude Qatar carrier chief 's remark that no female could do his job 
underlines challenge for industry trailing on ge....
Even five years ago, she said, no one senior would have condemned him. "[Mr Baker's remarks are] putting more 
emphasis [on the issue] and it could help in the change," she said. "What happened is good for diversity and gender 
in our industry."
However, the figures illustrate how much further the industry needs to progress, particularly in areas such as pay.
As part of a transparency initiative, the UK government uncovered large gender pay gaps in aviation. Ryanair's 
median hourly rate for women was 72 per cent lower than for men, easyJet's was 46 per cent lower and British Air-
ways' 10 per cent lower. The median pay gap across the UK was 9.7 per cent, while Ryanair had only 3 per cent of 
women in its top quartile by pay.
Personal experiences of some women in the industry also highlight disturbing examples of discrimination.
Kathy McCullough, who started as a pilot in the early 1980s, said in the first years of her career discrimination was 
overt. "You should be home barefoot and pregnant in the kitchen," was the attitude directed at her, she said. "I just 
tried not to bristle."
Ms McCullough, who retired as a captain flying 747s out of Anchorage, Alaska, for Northwest Airlines (now part of 
Delta), added that there were also subtler means of undermining female pilots in the industry. For example, men 
made checkrides - practical flying tests - more difficult for women by "overloading them" and giving them "too many 
emergencies to deal with at one time".
"A lot of the time on the way up, when we're flying for smaller airlines, the check airmen know that they're 
competing for the same jobs as a woman so they make it harder or bust them because they know the airlines won't 
hire women with records that are blemished."
Many of those men were ex-military, Ms McCullough said, a reference echoed by Beverley Harrison, archivist for 
the British Women Pilots' Associaton and a retired RAF officer. She says that "the whole commercial flying world 
has had a tendency to be 'fed' by retired RAF pilots", and as those full-time pilots were only men until the early 
1990s, there has been a systemic shortage of women.
Cindy Youngblood, a private jet pilot, says that early in her career she was surprised by a source of discontent: her 
colleagues' wives.
When going for a job, a potential employer told her, "very nicely, that he would hire me but his wife would divorce 
him". Ms Youngblood says she appreciated his candour - she was not left questioning her ability - but points out he 
could not say that today.
Aside from that, Ms Youngblood says the men she has worked with have been "wonderful and supportive" and that 
she has not experienced the difficulties other women report.
Ms OurmiÈres-Widener trained as an aeronautical engineer before moving into management and even today finds 
men patronising her, avoiding technical terms in case she does not understand.
In the allied field of aircraft brokerage, the few female brokers find themselves excluded, says René Banglesdorf, 
chief executive of Charlie Bravo Aviation. There are "the slights that come with not being part of the good old boys' 
club" and no appreciation for the intellectual diversity women bring, she added.
At conferences, Ms Banglesdorf said she was one of few women in attendance. "Sometimes that feels great 
because I feel like I can stand out, and sometimes it feels isolated because I stand out." At the CAPA, the Centre 
for Aviation conference in Ireland in May, there were several manels - men-only panels - and at IATA's annual 
meeting, where Mr Baker made his remarks, male speakers outnumbered female ones by 19 to five.
However, progress is being made with networks to promote and support female pilots such as the International 
Aviation Womens Association.
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude Qatar carrier chief 's remark that no female could do his job 
underlines challenge for industry trailing on ge....
A second organisation, Women in Aviation International, has more than 12,000 active members, is running its fourth 
Girls in Aviation Day this October and has provided $11.5m in scholarships since 1995. Its corporate sponsors 
include large airlines, aircraft manufacturers and even Amazon.
Ms McCullough worries that progress can be slow in areas such as maternity leave, which has discouraged women 
from being pilots. "We are making progress but we shouldn't still have to be having issues like maternity leave in 
this day and age - but we do."
'Sometimes it feels great because I can stand out, and sometimes it feels isolated because I stand out'
Graphic
 
In the US, just 7 per cent of pilots were women in 2017 according to the Federal Aviation Administration John 
Hollidge/Alamy
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude Qatar carrier chief 's remark that no female could do his job 
underlines challenge for industry trailing on ge....
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude; Qatar carrier chief 's 
remark that no female could do his job underlines challenge for industry 
trailing on gender issue
Financial Times (London, England)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 936 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
When the chief executive of Qatar Airways said this month that a woman could not do his job, industry leaders were 
quick to criticise. Akbar Al Baker was equally speedy in issuing his "heartfelt apologies" for a remark that has stirred 
up the gender debate in the aviation sector.
Whether it is in the boardroom or the cockpit, the aviation industry trails on the issue of gender and diversity. Only 3 
per cent of airline chief executives are women, according to a 2017 survey by industry journal Airline Business of 
the 100 biggest carriers by revenue. This compared with 7 per cent in the FTSE 100 at the time of the study.
The irony was not lost on some that when Mr Baker made his comments, he had just been appointed chairman of 
the International Air Transport Association's board of governors, which only has two women out of 31 members.
When it comes to pilots, the figures are just as unforgiving. In the US in 2017, just 7 per cent of 609,000 pilots were 
women, according to data from the Federal Aviation Administration.
Yet Mr Baker's comments demonstrated at least one positive thing, according to Christine OurmiÈres-Widener, 
chief executive of UK regional airline Flybe and one of the two women on the Iata board.
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude Qatar carrier chief 's remark that no female could do his job 
underlines challenge for industry trailing on ge....
Even five years ago, she said, no one senior would have condemned him. "[Mr Baker's remarks are] putting more 
emphasis [on the issue] and it could help in the change," she said. "What happened is good for diversity and gender 
in our industry."
However, the figures illustrate how much further the industry needs to progress, particularly in areas such as pay.
As part of a transparency initiative, the UK government uncovered large gender pay gaps in aviation. Ryanair's 
median hourly rate for women was 72 per cent lower than for men, easyJet's was 46 per cent lower and British Air-
ways' 10 per cent lower. The median pay gap across the UK was 9.7 per cent, while Ryanair had only 3 per cent of 
women in its top quartile by pay.
Personal experiences of some women in the industry also highlight disturbing examples of discrimination.
Kathy McCullough, who started as a pilot in the early 1980s, said in the first years of her career discrimination was 
overt. "You should be home barefoot and pregnant in the kitchen," was the attitude directed at her, she said. "I just 
tried not to bristle."
Ms McCullough, who retired as a captain flying 747s out of Anchorage, Alaska, for Northwest Airlines (now part of 
Delta), added that there were also subtler means of undermining female pilots in the industry. For example, men 
made checkrides - practical flying tests - more difficult for women by "overloading them" and giving them "too many 
emergencies to deal with at one time".
"A lot of the time on the way up, when we're flying for smaller airlines, the check airmen know that they're 
competing for the same jobs as a woman so they make it harder or bust them because they know the airlines won't 
hire women with records that are blemished."
Many of those men were ex-military, Ms McCullough said, a reference echoed by Beverley Harrison, archivist for 
the British Women Pilots' Associaton and a retired RAF officer. She says that "the whole commercial flying world 
has had a tendency to be 'fed' by retired RAF pilots", and as those full-time pilots were only men until the early 
1990s, there has been a systemic shortage of women.
Cindy Youngblood, a private jet pilot, says that early in her career she was surprised by a source of discontent: her 
colleagues' wives.
When going for a job, a potential employer told her, "very nicely, that he would hire me but his wife would divorce 
him". Ms Youngblood says she appreciated his candour - she was not left questioning her ability - but points out he 
could not say that today.
Aside from that, Ms Youngblood says the men she has worked with have been "wonderful and supportive" and that 
she has not experienced the difficulties other women report.
Ms OurmiÈres-Widener trained as an aeronautical engineer before moving into management and even today finds 
men patronising her, avoiding technical terms in case she does not understand.
In the allied field of aircraft brokerage, the few female brokers find themselves excluded, says René Banglesdorf, 
chief executive of Charlie Bravo Aviation. There are "the slights that come with not being part of the good old boys' 
club" and no appreciation for the intellectual diversity women bring, she added.
At conferences, Ms Banglesdorf said she was one of few women in attendance. "Sometimes that feels great 
because I feel like I can stand out, and sometimes it feels isolated because I stand out." At the CAPA, the Centre 
for Aviation conference in Ireland in May, there were several manels - men-only panels - and at IATA's annual 
meeting, where Mr Baker made his remarks, male speakers outnumbered female ones by 19 to five.
However, progress is being made with networks to promote and support female pilots such as the International 
Aviation Womens Association.
Women's airline careers are stuck at low altitude Qatar carrier chief 's remark that no female could do his job 
underlines challenge for industry trailing on ge....
A second organisation, Women in Aviation International, has more than 12,000 active members, is running its fourth 
Girls in Aviation Day this October and has provided $11.5m in scholarships since 1995. Its corporate sponsors 
include large airlines, aircraft manufacturers and even Amazon.
Ms McCullough worries that progress can be slow in areas such as maternity leave, which has discouraged women 
from being pilots. "We are making progress but we shouldn't still have to be having issues like maternity leave in 
this day and age - but we do."
'Sometimes it feels great because I can stand out, and sometimes it feels isolated because I stand out'
Graphic
 
In the US, just 7 per cent of pilots were women in 2017 according to the Federal Aviation Administration John 
Hollidge/Alamy
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa / Norwegian : carried away Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Lufthansa/Norwegian: carried away; Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; OPINION; LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 10
Length: 396 words
Body
Success at poker takes guile, luck and calculation. Europe's airline bosses need those qualities to profit from their 
industry's consolidation too. Lufthansa has upped the stakes by expressing an interest in buying Norwegian Air 
Shuttle. The move sent the low-cost carrier's share price up 12 per cent.
The move might be a bluff, some say.
Bidding up the price of Norwegian would make life tougher for would-be acquirer IAG. It would not be the first such 
accusation. When Ryanair was said to be in the running, boss Michael O'Leary accused Norwegian of "trying to 
manufacture a mythical interest".
But Lufthansa could be serious. It has made it clear it wants to participate in the wave of mergers in Europe's 
fragmented airline industry. It could be in the running to buy struggling Alitalia, though the sale is being held up by 
political turmoil. Having modernised its fleet and improved its margins, Lufthansa has the financial muscle to deal 
with Norwegian. The rapid growth of the airline run by Bjorn Kjos, the "Freddie Laker of the fiords", has created 
deep losses and debts.
Even so, the merits of such a tie-up are limited. The operations of the two airlines are poorly matched. Nor would 
Lufthansa have a need for all the spare aircraft that would come with a Norwegian deal.
IAG would be a better fit. The benefits would go beyond the ability to damp down transatlantic competition.
These, however would be significant given that Norwegian's biggest longhaul base is at London Gatwick, in British 
Airways' backyard. If Norwegian was valued at five times ebitdar, a cash earnings measure that includes rental 
Lufthansa / Norwegian : carried away Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
costs, it would be worth (EURO)1.6bn, say analysts, after deducting net debts of (EURO)5.2bn. But this depends on 
cost cuts and, more nebulously, socalled "marketing synergies" totalling (EURO)3.3bn when taxed and capitalised.
The implicit share price would be 30 per cent above current levels. That looks a stretch. The risks involved in buying 
Norwegian are real. Success is not guaranteed when it comes to applying the low-cost model to the long-haul 
market, where costs among the legacy airlines are already low.
After two rejected approaches, IAG insists it will not enter a bidding war for Norwegian. The share price is already 
two-fifths higher than in the months before IAG revealed its interest. Investors expecting further gains risk 
overplaying their hands.
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa/Norwegian: carried away; Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Lufthansa/Norwegian: carried away; Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; OPINION; LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 10
Length: 396 words
Body
Success at poker takes guile, luck and calculation. Europe's airline bosses need those qualities to profit from their 
industry's consolidation too. Lufthansa has upped the stakes by expressing an interest in buying Norwegian Air 
Shuttle. The move sent the low-cost carrier's share price up 12 per cent.
The move might be a bluff, some say.
Bidding up the price of Norwegian would make life tougher for would-be acquirer IAG. It would not be the first such 
accusation. When Ryanair was said to be in the running, boss Michael O'Leary accused Norwegian of "trying to 
manufacture a mythical interest".
But Lufthansa could be serious. It has made it clear it wants to participate in the wave of mergers in Europe's 
fragmented airline industry. It could be in the running to buy struggling Alitalia, though the sale is being held up by 
political turmoil. Having modernised its fleet and improved its margins, Lufthansa has the financial muscle to deal 
with Norwegian. The rapid growth of the airline run by Bjorn Kjos, the "Freddie Laker of the fiords", has created 
deep losses and debts.
Even so, the merits of such a tie-up are limited. The operations of the two airlines are poorly matched. Nor would 
Lufthansa have a need for all the spare aircraft that would come with a Norwegian deal.
IAG would be a better fit. The benefits would go beyond the ability to damp down transatlantic competition.
These, however would be significant given that Norwegian's biggest longhaul base is at London Gatwick, in British 
Airways' backyard. If Norwegian was valued at five times ebitdar, a cash earnings measure that includes rental 
Lufthansa/Norwegian: carried away; Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
costs, it would be worth (EURO)1.6bn, say analysts, after deducting net debts of (EURO)5.2bn. But this depends on 
cost cuts and, more nebulously, socalled "marketing synergies" totalling (EURO)3.3bn when taxed and capitalised.
The implicit share price would be 30 per cent above current levels. That looks a stretch. The risks involved in buying 
Norwegian are real. Success is not guaranteed when it comes to applying the low-cost model to the long-haul 
market, where costs among the legacy airlines are already low.
After two rejected approaches, IAG insists it will not enter a bidding war for Norwegian. The share price is already 
two-fifths higher than in the months before IAG revealed its interest. Investors expecting further gains risk 
overplaying their hands.
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa / Norwegian : carried away Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Lufthansa/Norwegian: carried away; Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; OPINION; LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 10
Length: 396 words
Body
Success at poker takes guile, luck and calculation. Europe's airline bosses need those qualities to profit from their 
industry's consolidation too. Lufthansa has upped the stakes by expressing an interest in buying Norwegian Air 
Shuttle. The move sent the low-cost carrier's share price up 12 per cent.
The move might be a bluff, some say.
Bidding up the price of Norwegian would make life tougher for would-be acquirer IAG. It would not be the first such 
accusation. When Ryanair was said to be in the running, boss Michael O'Leary accused Norwegian of "trying to 
manufacture a mythical interest".
But Lufthansa could be serious. It has made it clear it wants to participate in the wave of mergers in Europe's 
fragmented airline industry. It could be in the running to buy struggling Alitalia, though the sale is being held up by 
political turmoil. Having modernised its fleet and improved its margins, Lufthansa has the financial muscle to deal 
with Norwegian. The rapid growth of the airline run by Bjorn Kjos, the "Freddie Laker of the fiords", has created 
deep losses and debts.
Even so, the merits of such a tie-up are limited. The operations of the two airlines are poorly matched. Nor would 
Lufthansa have a need for all the spare aircraft that would come with a Norwegian deal.
IAG would be a better fit. The benefits would go beyond the ability to damp down transatlantic competition.
These, however would be significant given that Norwegian's biggest longhaul base is at London Gatwick, in British 
Airways' backyard. If Norwegian was valued at five times ebitdar, a cash earnings measure that includes rental 
Lufthansa / Norwegian : carried away Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
costs, it would be worth (EURO)1.6bn, say analysts, after deducting net debts of (EURO)5.2bn. But this depends on 
cost cuts and, more nebulously, socalled "marketing synergies" totalling (EURO)3.3bn when taxed and capitalised.
The implicit share price would be 30 per cent above current levels. That looks a stretch. The risks involved in buying 
Norwegian are real. Success is not guaranteed when it comes to applying the low-cost model to the long-haul 
market, where costs among the legacy airlines are already low.
After two rejected approaches, IAG insists it will not enter a bidding war for Norwegian. The share price is already 
two-fifths higher than in the months before IAG revealed its interest. Investors expecting further gains risk 
overplaying their hands.
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa / Norwegian : carried away Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Lufthansa/Norwegian: carried away; Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; OPINION; LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12
Length: 396 words
Body
Success at poker takes guile, luck and calculation. Europe's airline bosses need those qualities to profit from their 
industry's consolidation too. Lufthansa has upped the stakes by expressing an interest in buying Norwegian Air 
Shuttle. The move sent the low-cost carrier's share price up 12 per cent.
The move might be a bluff, some say.
Bidding up the price of Norwegian would make life tougher for would-be acquirer IAG. It would not be the first such 
accusation. When Ryanair was said to be in the running, boss Michael O'Leary accused Norwegian of "trying to 
manufacture a mythical interest".
But Lufthansa could be serious. It has made it clear it wants to participate in the wave of mergers in Europe's 
fragmented airline industry. It could be in the running to buy struggling Alitalia, though the sale is being held up by 
political turmoil. Having modernised its fleet and improved its margins, Lufthansa has the financial muscle to deal 
with Norwegian. The rapid growth of the airline run by Bjorn Kjos, the "Freddie Laker of the fiords", has created 
deep losses and debts.
Even so, the merits of such a tie-up are limited. The operations of the two airlines are poorly matched. Nor would 
Lufthansa have a need for all the spare aircraft that would come with a Norwegian deal.
IAG would be a better fit. The benefits would go beyond the ability to damp down transatlantic competition.
These, however would be significant given that Norwegian's biggest longhaul base is at London Gatwick, in British 
Airways' backyard. If Norwegian was valued at five times ebitdar, a cash earnings measure that includes rental 
Lufthansa / Norwegian : carried away Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
costs, it would be worth (EURO)1.6bn, say analysts, after deducting net debts of (EURO)5.2bn. But this depends on 
cost cuts and, more nebulously, socalled "marketing synergies" totalling (EURO)3.3bn when taxed and capitalised.
The implicit share price would be 30 per cent above current levels. That looks a stretch. The risks involved in buying 
Norwegian are real. Success is not guaranteed when it comes to applying the low-cost model to the long-haul 
market, where costs among the legacy airlines are already low.
After two rejected approaches, IAG insists it will not enter a bidding war for Norwegian. The share price is already 
two-fifths higher than in the months before IAG revealed its interest. Investors expecting further gains risk 
overplaying their hands.
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
Lufthansa explores move for Norwegian Airlines. Deals wave ; Chief shows interest in purchase, pushing low-
cost carrier's stock 10% higher
Lufthansa explores move for Norwegian; Airlines. Deals wave ; Chief shows 
interest in purchase, pushing low-cost carrier's stock 10% higher
Financial Times (London, England)
June 19, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 14
Length: 511 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Shares in Norwegian Air Shuttle rose 10 per cent after the chief executive of rival Lufthansa said that his company 
was interested in buying the Scandinavian low-cost carrier.
Talking to the Süddeutsche Zeitung newspaper in Germany, Carsten Spohr said: "Everyone in Europe is talking to 
everyone right now. There is another wave of consolidation. This means that we are also in contact with 
Norwegian."
He said that all acquisitions were a matter of value, price and opportunity, with "no simple answers".
Lufthansa declined to answer further questions.
Norwegian said that it had received several expressions of "indicative and preliminary interest in share acquisitions, 
mergers ... and various forms of operational and financial co-operation".
Norwegian has said previously that it has had conversations with several potential suitors about a takeover. British 
Airways owner IAG bought 4.6 per cent of Norwegian in April 2018 and made two approaches to buy the carrier for 
an undisclosed price, both of which were rejected by Norwegian's board.
Lufthansa explores move for Norwegian Airlines. Deals wave ; Chief shows interest in purchase, pushing low-
cost carrier's stock 10% higher
Analysts were sceptical about a Lufthansa/Norwegian deal, saying it made less strategic sense for Lufthansa than 
for IAG. "The synergy values would be a lot less at Lufthansa," said Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein. "In a 
rational world, they should have a lower willingness to pay."
Another analyst, who did not want to be named, said there was a "powerful industrial logic" for the IAG/Norwegian 
combination. Unlike Lufthansa, BA would be able to protect its North Atlantic routes from Norwegian's long-haul 
low-cost services, it would increase its fleet and it would win more slots at Gatwick airport, which is operating near 
capacity.
Bjorn Kjos, Norwegian's chief executive and joint biggest shareholder, said Norwegian had had discussions with 
budget carrier Ryanair. Ryanair denied this: "We have not made an approach to Norwegian and we have no 
interest."
A spate of consolidations in the European aviation industry has followed the failure of several airlines in 2017: BA 
bought Monarch Airlines' Gatwick slots; Lufthansa bought parts of Air Berlin; and Lufthansa and easyJet have both 
expressed an interest in Alitalia. The impact of a rising oil price on profitability has also prompted strategic thinking 
about consolidation: jet fuel has risen to 207 cents per gallon.
Lufthansa might be in exploratory mode, Mr Roeska said: "As long as Alitalia is not progressing, investigating the 
Norwegian case makes sense for Lufthansa's M&A team."
The second analyst suggested that interest from other potential suitors would benefit Norwegian by "beefing up the 
price".
However, IAG chief executive Willie Walsh told his company's AGM last week that he would not engage in a 
"bidding war" for Norwegian.
Norwegian had negative free cash flow of NKr3.8bn ($463m) in the first three months of the year, although its 
operating revenue rose by a third from the same period a year earlier to NKr6.99bn. The group's net loss shrank 
from NKr1.49bn in the quarter last year to NKr46m.
Additional reporting by Cat Rutter Pooley See Lex
Graphic
 
Ground crew prepare a Boeing 737, operated by Norwegian Air Shuttle, for departure at Gatwick airport Simon 
Dawson/Bloomberg
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
American Airlines Group (AAL) versus Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Head-To-Head Contrast
American Airlines Group (AAL) versus Ryanair (RYAAY) Head-To-Head 
Contrast
American Banking and Market News
June 18, 2018 Monday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 734 words
Body
American Airlines Group (NASDAQ: AAL) and Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) are both large-cap transportation 
companies, but which is the superior business? We will contrast the two companies based on the strength of their 
dividends, analyst recommendations, institutional ownership, risk, profitability, earnings and valuation.  
Insider and Institutional Ownership
80.7% of American Airlines Group shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 43.7% of Ryanair 
shares are held by institutional investors. 0.7% of American Airlines Group shares are held by company insiders. 
Strong institutional ownership is an indication that endowments, large money managers and hedge funds believe a 
stock will outperform the market over the long term. 
Analyst Recommendations
This is a breakdown of recent ratings and price targets for American Airlines Group and Ryanair, as reported by 
MarketBeat. 
Sell Ratings
Hold Ratings
Buy Ratings
Strong Buy 
Ratings
Rating Score
American Airlines 
Group
1
2
11
0
2.71
Ryanair
1
5
2
0
2.13
American Airlines Group currently has a consensus price target of $61.21, indicating a potential upside of 43.12%. 
Ryanair has a consensus price target of $83.00, indicating a potential downside of 28.85%. Given American Airlines 
Group's stronger consensus rating and  higher possible upside, equities analysts clearly believe American Airlines 
Group is more favorable than Ryanair. 
Profitability
This table compares American Airlines Group and Ryanair's net margins, return on equity and return on assets.
Net Margins
Return on Equity
Return on Assets
American Airlines Group
4.35%
92.63%
4.65%
Ryanair
20.13%
31.73%
12.17%
American Airlines Group (AAL) versus Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Head-To-Head Contrast
Volatility and Risk American Airlines Group has a beta of 0.98, suggesting that its share price is 2% less volatile 
than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Ryanair has a beta of 0.64, suggesting that its share price is 36% less volatile 
than the S&P 500. 
Valuation & Earnings This table compares American Airlines Group and Ryanair's top-line revenue, earnings per 
share (EPS) and valuation.
Gross 
Revenue
Price/Sales 
Ratio
Net Income
Earnings Per 
Share
Price/Earnings 
Ratio
American 
Airlines Group
$42.21 billion
0.47
$1.92 billion
$4.88
8.76
Ryanair
$8.37 billion
3.27
$1.70 billion
$7.05
16.55
American Airlines Group has higher revenue and earnings than Ryanair. American Airlines Group is trading at a 
lower price-to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. 
Dividends
American Airlines Group pays an annual dividend of $0.40 per share and has a dividend yield of 0.9%. Ryanair 
does not pay a dividend. American Airlines Group pays out 8.2% of its earnings in the form of a dividend.  
Summary
American Airlines Group beats Ryanair on 10 of the 16 factors compared between the two stocks. 
About American Airlines Group
American Airlines Group logo American Airlines Group Inc., through its subsidiaries, operates as a network air 
carrier. It provides scheduled air transportation services for passengers and cargo. As of December 31, 2017, the 
company operated a mainline fleet of 948 aircraft. It serves 350 destinations in approximately 50 countries, 
principally from its hubs in Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, and 
Phoenix, as well as in Washington, D.C. The company was formerly known as AMR Corporation and changed its 
name to American Airlines Group Inc. in December 2013. American Airlines Group Inc. was founded in 1934 and is 
headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair logo Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such 
as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel 
insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In 
addition, the company sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car 
parking, attractions, and activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 
737-800 aircraft and 33 leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving 
approximately 200 airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, 
Ireland.    
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
A.R.T. Advisors LLC Boosts Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
A.R.T. Advisors LLC Boosts Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
June 18, 2018 Monday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 719 words
Body
Ryanair logo A.R.T. Advisors LLC boosted its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 29.5% in the 1st 
quarter, according to its most recent filing with the SEC. The fund owned 18,435 shares of the transportation 
company's stock after purchasing an additional 4,200 shares during the period. A.R.T. Advisors LLC's holdings in 
Ryanair were worth $2,264,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
A number of other institutional investors also recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. Renaissance 
Technologies LLC increased its holdings in  Ryanair by 28.6% in the 4th quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC 
now owns 3,473,819 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $361,937,000 after purchasing an 
additional 772,300 shares during the last quarter.  Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA grew its stake in 
shares of  Ryanair by 53.3% in the first quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,217,338 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $272,400,000 after acquiring an additional 770,774 shares in 
the last quarter.  FIL Ltd grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 659.3% in the first quarter. FIL Ltd now owns 
575,221 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $70,665,000 after acquiring an additional 499,469 
shares in the last quarter.  Thornburg Investment Management Inc. grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 20.4% in 
the first quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $242,499,000 after acquiring an additional 334,623 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, 
Lazard Asset Management LLC grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 12.6% in the fourth quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $302,744,000 after 
acquiring an additional 325,932 shares in the last quarter. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own  
43.72% of the company's stock.  
Shares of Ryanair opened at $116.65 on Monday, MarketBeat.com  reports. The company has a debt-to-equity 
ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23. The firm has a market cap of $27.32 billion, a P/E ratio 
of 16.55 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $101.10 and a 12 month high of $127.61.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. The firm had revenue 
of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a net margin of 
20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%.  sell-side analysts anticipate that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 
earnings per share for the current year.  
Several equities analysts have commented on RYAAY shares. Zacks Investment Research  upgraded shares of 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target for the company in a research note on 
A.R.T. Advisors LLC Boosts Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Thursday, March 29th. BidaskClub downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a 
research note on Monday, May 14th. Deutsche Bank downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" 
rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Exane BNP Paribas downgraded shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Thursday, June 7th. Finally,            ValuEngine  
downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Wednesday, May 9th. 
Three investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have given a hold rating and three have 
assigned  a buy rating to the company. The stock currently has an average rating of "Hold" and an average price 
target of $110.50. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 18, 2018
End of Document
Stobart's boardroom spat has everyone reaching for lawyers INSIDE BUSINESS
Stobart's boardroom spat has everyone reaching for lawyers; INSIDE 
BUSINESS
Financial Times (London, England)
June 18, 2018 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 19
Length: 720 words
Byline: Kate Burgess
Body
T he spat between Stobart, the biomass-airport group, and Andrew Tinkler, former chief executive and director, 
edged towards farce last week amid accusations of mud-slinging, defamation and the rest.
On Thursday, the Stobart board sacked Mr Tinkler as a director, claiming breach of contract and fiduciary duty. The 
catfight risks splitting the City, dragging celestial names such as one-time investor ace Neil Woodford, Invesco and 
M&G into the fray. Everyone seems to have reached for their lawyers, including Mr Woodford.
Mr Tinkler's talents in turning Stobart from a Cumbrian haulier into a multimillion-pound logistics group are manifest. 
But the castle-owning entrepreneur, a joiner by trade, has created less value than chaos in recent months.
Two of Stobart's four independent directors have threatened to quit should he succeed in unseating chairman Iain 
Ferguson. And he has stirred up more than the board. He claims in a letter to investors that 80 per cent of Stobart's 
executives would like to see Mr Ferguson displaced by his man, Philip Day, the Dubai-based retail tycoon.
Warwick Brady, who replaced Mr Tinkler as chief executive last year, said in a statement last week that Mr Tinkler's 
actions had "threatened to destabilise the company and severely impacted my ability and that of my team to 
manage the business on a day-to-day basis".
Stobart's boardroom spat has everyone reaching for lawyers INSIDE BUSINESS
Mr Brady wants a non-partisan, independent board to help realise his strategy for Stobart. Last week he illustrated 
how that might work, signing a watershed deal with Ryanair to use Southend as a base for its aircraft. Stobart 
shares rose 12.5 per cent.
So why does Mr Woodford continue to support Mr Tinkler? He says he wants a new chairman to restore stability "to 
ensure that shareholder value creation continues in the manner that we have become accustomed to over the past 
decade or more".
Castle-owning Tinkler has created less value the fund manager holds a fifth of Stobart. Years back he was also 
involved in deals on which Stobart's air division was founded.
than chaos in recent months Other investors have less reason to be loyal. They may say "he has made us money in 
the past". They should be asking "will he make us money in the future?" Connect, unconnected Connect, the UK's 
largest distributor of newspapers that was once part of WH Smith, is disappointed in the World Cup. Sales of 
football stickers have been slower than expected, it said last week. Profits will fall short of forecasts, and its 
dividend is under threat. The shares fell 45 per cent.
It is not just poor sales of World Cup ephemera. Pass My Parcel, the click-and-collect delivery business set up in 
2014 with Amazon as its first customer, is continuing to lose money to the point where Mark Cashmore, Connect's 
chief executive, is closing it down. Aside from Amazon, it hasn't won any big contracts.
Pass My Parcel was one of many attempts by Connect to diversify revenues away from the low-margin, terminally 
challenged business of newspaper distribution. As a plan it hasn't worked. News distribution still accounts for 90 per 
cent of total revenues.
After demerging from WH Smith in 2006, Smith News, as it was then called, bought wholesalers Bertram Books for 
£8m in 2009 and Dawson Books for £20m in 2011. A year later it bought Consortium, supplier of textbooks to 
schools, for £38m. And in 2014 it bought Tuffnells, which delivers lumpy parcels, for £113m.
The group's progress has been just as misshapen. Connect's revenues and profits are lower than they were in 2013 
and its stock market value, at £130m, is a third of what it was. Connect sold its education business for £58m last 
year, and the book division for £6m this year. Tuffnells remains but suffers from a killer combination of pricing 
pressures, poor service quality and rising costs.
Rivals such as DX talk of a challenges and a dearth of qualified drivers. But Tuffnells is inefficient, said Mr 
Cashmore candidly. "This is about self-help." He reckons the division could make £10m in profits on £180m of 
revenues in time. But he won't be around to see his recovery plan through. Last week he quit.
"The group has a clear sense of purpose and is ambitious for growth," Connect's website declares. It has a funny 
way of showing it.
kate.burgess@ft.com
Castle-owning Tinkler has created less value than chaos in recent months
Load-Date: June 17, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Receives $109.00 Average Target Price from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives $109.00 Average Target Price from 
Analysts
Transcript Daily
June 17, 2018 Sunday 6:31 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 633 words
Body
Jun 17, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) has earned an average rating of "Hold" from the twelve analysts that are presently covering the 
firm, Marketbeat Ratings[1] reports. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell recommendation, six have given 
a hold recommendation and three have given a buy recommendation to the company.A number of equities analysts 
have recently commented on the company. BNP Paribas downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. 
Zacks Investment Research[2] downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "sell" rating in a research report on 
Friday, April 20th. Deutsche Bank restated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 
22nd. BidaskClub upgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a research note on Wednesday, 
February 21st. Finally, Exane BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a 
research note on Thursday, June 7th.Hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently modified their 
holdings of the business. US Bancorp DE lifted its stake in Ryanair by 168.2% in the fourth quarter. US Bancorp DE 
now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $122,000 after buying an additional 735 
shares during the last quarter. Assetmark Inc. raised its stake in shares of Ryanair by 64.0% during the fourth 
quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $138,000 after 
purchasing an additional 516 shares during the last quarter. Tower Research Capital LLC TRC purchased a new 
stake in shares of Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth approximately $148,000. Elkfork Partners LLC purchased 
a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth approximately $166,000. Finally, Glenmede Trust 
Co. NA raised its stake in shares of Ryanair by 2,506.9% during the fourth quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now 
owns 1,877 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $195,000 after purchasing an additional 1,805 
shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors own 43.72% of the company's stock. Shares of Ryanair 
stock[3] traded down $1.36 on Thursday, reaching $116.65. 360,094 shares of the company were exchanged, 
compared to its average volume of 325,729. Ryanair has a 1-year low of $101.10 and a 1-year high of $127.61. The 
company has a market cap of $27.32 billion, a PE ratio of 16.81 and a beta of 0.64. The company has a debt-to-
equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a current ratio of 1.23. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its 
quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, 
topping the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net 
margin of 20.13%. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus 
estimate of $1.56 billion. sell-side analysts predict that Ryanair will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current 
fiscal year. Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Receives $109.00 Average Target Price from Analysts
passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers 
various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets 
accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of 
beverages, 
food, 
and 
merchandise. 
[ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
Load-Date: June 17, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Position Raised by Stifel Financial Corp
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Position Raised by Stifel Financial Corp
American Banking and Market News
June 16, 2018 Saturday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 732 words
Body
Ryanair logo Stifel Financial Corp boosted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
30.9% in the first quarter, according to its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
The institutional investor  owned 36,412 shares of the transportation company's stock after purchasing an additional 
8,598 shares during the period. Stifel Financial Corp's holdings in Ryanair were worth $4,458,000 as of its most 
recent SEC filing.  
A number of other institutional investors and hedge funds have also recently made changes to their positions in 
RYAAY. Renaissance Technologies LLC boosted its position in  Ryanair by 28.6% in the 4th quarter. Renaissance 
Technologies LLC now owns 3,473,819 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $361,937,000 after 
buying an additional 772,300 shares during the last quarter.  Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA boosted its 
position in  Ryanair by 53.3% in the 1st quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,217,338 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $272,400,000 after buying an additional 770,774 shares 
during the last quarter.  Thornburg Investment Management Inc. boosted its position in  Ryanair by 20.4% in the 1st 
quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $242,499,000 after buying an additional 334,623 shares during the last quarter.  Lazard Asset 
Management LLC boosted its position in  Ryanair by 12.6% in the 4th quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now 
owns 2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $302,744,000 after buying an additional 
325,932 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Two Sigma Investments LP boosted its position in  Ryanair by 
480.3% in the 4th quarter. Two Sigma Investments LP now owns 282,840 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $29,469,000 after buying an additional 234,100 shares during the last quarter. Hedge funds and 
other institutional investors own  43.72% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair opened at $116.65 on Friday, MarketBeat Ratings  reports. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of 
$101.10 and a 12-month high of $127.61. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 1.23 and 
a current ratio of 1.23. The firm has a market capitalization of $27.64 billion, a PE ratio of 17.00 and a beta of 0.64.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping the Thomson Reuters' consensus 
estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. The business 
had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion.  analysts forecast that  
Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Position Raised by Stifel Financial Corp
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of recent research reports. BidaskClub lowered Ryanair from a "strong-buy" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Thursday, March 1st. Zacks Investment Research  upgraded Ryanair 
from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target on the stock in a research report on Thursday, 
March 29th. Deutsche Bank  restated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, May 
22nd.            ValuEngine  lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Wednesday, 
May 9th. Finally, BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report 
on Thursday, June 7th. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have given a hold rating and three 
have issued  a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair currently has an average rating of "Hold" and a 
consensus price target of $110.50. 
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 16, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair urges intervention to stop strikes causing 'summer meltdown'
Ryanair urges intervention to stop strikes causing 'summer meltdown'
City A.M.
June 15, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 12
Length: 210 words
Byline: ALEXANDRA ROGERS
Body
RYANAIR yesterday called on EU governments to intervene in the ongoing crisis over strikes by Air Traffic Control 
(ATC) staff, warning that if something is not done there will be a "meltdown" this summer.
The budget airline has issued its call to arms as it prepares to grapple with more strikes by ATC staff in France this 
weekend.
Ryanair said during the course of May more than 117,000 flights were delayed, with ATC staff shortages and strikes 
accounting for 61 per cent - more than 71,000 - of the affected flights.
More than 56,000 flights were delayed more than 15 minutes, well over the EU delay threshold of 0.5 minutes per 
flight. Ryanair warned that current forecasts pointed towards the rest of 2018 suffering delays of 1.5 minutes per 
flight, more than treble the EU target.
Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary said many flights were disrupted despite never touching down in France 
because of airspace restrictions. He said UK and German ATC staff members were "hiding behind" poor weather 
conditions, which has also led to delays, to disguise low staffing levels.
"Europe's ATC providers are approaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights being cancelled daily 
simply because they don't have enough staff to deal with them," he said.
Graphic
Ryanair urges intervention to stop strikes causing 'summer meltdown'
 
France has been the worst hit by strikes by air traffic controllers
Load-Date: June 15, 2018
End of Document
Stobart Group's crisis ignites the governance tinderbox
Stobart Group's crisis ignites the governance tinderbox
City A.M.
June 15, 2018 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 711 words
Byline: Mark Kleinman
Body
NOW THINGS are getting messy. If the situation wasn't already heated enough, Stobart Group's decision yesterday 
to oust former chief executive Andrew Tinkler as a director and sue him for breach of contract and fiduciary duty 
has ignited a tinderbox beneath one of the City's most combustible boardrooms.
The allegations - that Tinkler sought to structure corporate deals for personal gain and "to secure control of the 
company - are extraordinary. The former CEO has support from over 30 per cent of shareholders, including 
Woodford Investment Management, making it conceivable (if not probable) that he will succeed in getting rid of 
chairman Iain Ferguson at next month's annual meeting.
Other independent investors will understandably want reassurance about future governance arrangements if that 
happens, particularly given that the retail billionaire Philip Day is both unproven as a public company director and a 
Woodford nominee.
It might not be a coincidence that consummate corporate pugilist Michael O'Leary struck a deal for Ryanair to 
operate from Stobart's Southend Airport just as its boardroom is descending into outright war.
But Warwick Brady, the chief executive, can't have it both ways. On Wednesday, he said the Ryanair arrangement 
was evidence of his ability to deliver despite the fracas; yesterday, he insisted that Tinkler's campaign threatened to 
destabilise the company. Either might be correct, but he needs to be consistent if he wants to preserve his 
chairman's job.
LITERACY IN DARTMOUTH There are few more obvious bellwethers of an economy than the vibrancy of its 
recruitment market, so how about this for a post-Brexit bet on the City? Sources say that Literacy Capital, the 
investment vehicle headed by Paul Pindar, is in advanced talks to acquire a minority stake in Dartmouth Partners, 
Stobart Group's crisis ignites the governance tinderbox
one of the City's top headhunting firms. Subject to any lastminute problems, the deal should be announced next 
week. It represents an intriguing vote of confidence in Dartmouth, whose 'classroom-toboardroom' approach has led 
to it sewing up exclusive relationships with a string of investment banks, private equity houses and law firms.
Following the deal with Literacy, Jess Watts, the former chief executive of recruiter R4S, will become chairman, 
while the former Purplebricks chief financial officer Neil Cartwright will take the same role at Dartmouth. The 
company's founder will remain in his post as CEO.
It looks like a well-timed transaction: the last three months have been Dartmouth's strongest-ever in revenue terms, 
underlining the fact that Brexit has yet to seriously bite the financial services sector.
There's no guarantee that that will continue, of course - the presence, or otherwise, of reassurance in an impending 
white paper on Britain's future relationship with the EU will have a significant bearing on City contingency planning. 
Dartmouth's decision to open a Frankfurt office last year looks like a smart bit of hedging.
KHAN'S THREE LION WHIP England's World Cup campaign kicks off in Volgograd in four days' time, but recent 
experience watching the Three Lions in major tournaments suggests it might be more exciting to focus on the 
unfolding tussle over the ownership of Wembley Stadium.
Shahid Khan, the Fulham FC owner, has proposed a £600m offer to take control of the home of English football, but 
leaving the Football Association as the beneficiary of future hospitality revenues.
The suggestion that the FA will open the process to other bidders in the autumn misrepresents the situation: it's 
already open, but with few obvious bidders able to deliver the commercial logic contained by Khan's offer to base 
the Jacksonville Jaguars NFL franchise there.
Among other stakeholders, Sport England is said to have brought on board Hogan Lovells, the law firm, to 
represent it as the talks continue.
It's right that governance safeguards such as a golden share for the FA should be incorporated into any final deal, 
preventing Wembley's future sale to an undesirable buyer. Equally, the governing body must not ignore the 
prospect of a windfall which, if invested wisely, could turn help turn England World Cup squads of 2030 and beyond 
into genuine contenders.
£ Mark Kleinman is the City Editor of Sky News. @MarkKleinmanSky
Load-Date: June 15, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Earns Daily News Sentiment Score of 0.00
Ryanair (RYAAY) Earns Daily News Sentiment Score of 0.00
Transcript Daily
June 15, 2018 Friday 4:25 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 711 words
Body
Jun 15, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  News coverage about Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) has trended somewhat positive this week, according to Accern Sentiment Analysis. Accern 
ranks the sentiment of media coverage by monitoring more than twenty million news and blog sources in real-time. 
Accern ranks coverage of public companies on a scale of -1 to 1, with scores closest to one being the most 
favorable. 
Ryanair earned a news impact score of 0.00 on Accern's scale. Accern also gave press coverage about the 
transportation company an impact score of 45.3521302153562 out of 100, meaning that recent media coverage is 
somewhat unlikely to have an effect on the stock's share price in the near term. These are some of the news stories 
that may have effected Accern Sentiment's scoring: Ryanair Calls For EU Action To Resolve ATC Staffing Crisis - 
Quick Facts[1] (markets.businessinsider.com)Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives Consensus Rating of "Hold" 
from Brokerages[2] (americanbankingnews.com)[$$] Ryanair to launch operations at UKeuro;trade;s Southend 
airport[3] (finance.yahoo.com)Ryanair recognizes union for U.K. cabin crew[4] (marketwatch.com)The New 
Performance Statistic of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)[5] (finherald.com) Ryanair traded down $0.39, 
reaching $118.01, during mid-day trading on Thursday, MarketBeat.com[6] reports. 442,822 shares of the stock 
traded hands, compared to its average volume of 318,564. The stock has a market cap of $27.69 billion, a PE ratio 
of 16.74 and a beta of 0.64. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a current ratio 
of 1.23. Ryanair has a 12-month low of $101.10 and a 12-month high of $127.61. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last 
posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for the 
quarter, beating analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion during 
the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net 
margin of 20.13%. sell-side analysts predict that Ryanair will post 7.08 EPS for the current fiscal year. A number of 
research analysts have recently issued reports on the company. BidaskClub raised Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a 
"strong-buy" rating in a report on Saturday, March 17th. Zacks Investment Research[7] raised Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target on the stock in a report on Thursday, March 29th. Deutsche 
Bank cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas cut 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, Exane 
BNP Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 
7th. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have assigned a hold rating and four have given a 
buy rating to the company. The company has an average rating of "Hold" and a consensus target price of 
$110.00.Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-
passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Earns Daily News Sentiment Score of 0.00
various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets 
accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food, and merchandise. [ 1]: http://markets.businessinsider.com/news/stocks/ryanair-calls-for-eu-action-
to-resolve-atc-staffing-crisis-quick-facts-1026994232 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.americanbankingnews.com/?p=7056314 [ 3]:            https://finance.yahoo.com/m/60dfffc5-9301-348a-
a441-a746bf122348/%5B%24%24%5D-ryanair-to-launch.html?.tsrc=rss 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketwatch.com/story/ryanair-recognizes-union-for-uk-cabin-crew-2018-06-12 [ 5]:            
https://finherald.com/2018/06/08/the-new-performance-statistic-of-ryanair-holdings-plc-nasdaqryaay/ [ 6]:            
https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 7]:            http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
Load-Date: June 15, 2018
End of Document
Teewinot Capital Advisers L.L.C. Increases Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Teewinot Capital Advisers L.L.C. Increases Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
Transcript Daily
June 15, 2018 Friday 10:32 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 808 words
Body
Jun 15, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Teewinot Capital Advisers L.L.C. 
raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 8.2% during the 1st quarter, Holdings 
Channel[1] reports. The firm owned 194,170 shares of the transportation company's stock after purchasing an 
additional 14,700 shares during the quarter. Ryanair comprises 8.4% of Teewinot Capital Advisers L.L.C.'s 
holdings, making the stock its 4th biggest position. 
Teewinot Capital Advisers L.L.C.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $23,854,000 as of its most recent filing with the 
Securities ...change Commission. A number of other hedge funds also recently made changes to their positions in 
RYAAY. WCM Investment Management CA grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 5.2% in the first quarter. WCM 
Investment Management CA now owns 3,719,251 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$456,910,000 after acquiring an additional 185,253 shares during the last quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC 
grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 28.6% in the fourth quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC now owns 
3,473,819 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $361,937,000 after acquiring an additional 772,300 
shares during the last quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 12.6% in the 
fourth quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $302,744,000 after acquiring an additional 325,932 shares during the last quarter. Massachusetts Financial 
Services Co. MA grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 53.3% in the first quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services 
Co. MA now owns 2,217,338 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $272,400,000 after acquiring an 
additional 770,774 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Thornburg Investment Management Inc. grew its stake in 
shares of Ryanair by 20.4% in the first quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $242,499,000 after acquiring an additional 334,623 shares 
during the last quarter. Institutional investors own 43.72% of the company's stock. RYAAY has been the subject of 
several research reports. BidaskClub raised Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a research report 
on Saturday, March 17th. Zacks Investment Research[2] raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and 
set a $137.00 target price for the company in a research report on Thursday, March 29th. Deutsche Bank cut 
Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas cut Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, Exane BNP 
Paribas cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. 
Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have given a hold rating and four have given a buy rating 
to the company. Ryanair has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average price target of $110.00.Shares of 
Ryanair opened at $116.44 on Friday, MarketBeat.com[3] reports. The firm has a market capitalization of $27.73 
Teewinot Capital Advisers L.L.C. Increases Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
billion, a P/E ratio of 16.74 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $101.10 and a one year 
high of $127.61. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23. 
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping the consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The firm had revenue of 
$1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a return on equity 
of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. sell-side analysts predict that Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 earnings 
per share for the current fiscal year. Ryanair ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides 
scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It 
also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and 
markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale 
of beverages, food, and merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 3]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 4]:       
     https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
Load-Date: June 16, 2018
End of Document
RMB Capital Management LLC Buys New Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
RMB Capital Management LLC Buys New Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
June 14, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 657 words
Body
Ryanair logo RMB Capital Management LLC bought a new stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
during the 1st quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the Securities & Exchange 
Commission. The fund bought 10,825 shares of the transportation company's stock, valued at approximately 
$1,330,000.  
Several other large investors have also recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 25.2% during the fourth quarter. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. now owns 116,474 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $12,135,000 after buying an additional 23,471 shares in the last 
quarter.  Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 5.9% during the fourth quarter. 
Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. now owns 39,400 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $4,105,000 
after buying an additional 2,200 shares in the last quarter.  Capital Fund Management S.A. boosted its holdings in  
Ryanair by 38.6% during the fourth quarter. Capital Fund Management S.A. now owns 41,928 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $4,368,000 after buying an additional 11,682 shares in the last quarter.  D.A. 
Davidson & CO. purchased a new stake in  Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth about $341,000.  Finally, We 
Are One Seven LLC purchased a new stake in  Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth about $211,000. 43.72% of 
the stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Shares of Ryanair opened at $118.40 on Thursday, according to MarketBeat . The company has a quick ratio of 
1.23, a current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. The stock has a market cap of $27.69 billion, a price-
to-earnings ratio of 16.79 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $101.10 and a 12-month 
high of $127.61.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. 
The company had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. 
Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%.  research analysts anticipate that  Ryanair 
Holdings plc will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current year.  
A number of brokerages have issued reports on RYAAY. Zacks Investment Research  upgraded shares of Ryanair 
from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 target price for the company in a research report on 
Thursday, March 29th. BidaskClub upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a 
research report on Wednesday, February 21st.            ValuEngine  cut shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a 
RMB Capital Management LLC Buys New Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
"hold" rating in a research report on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank cut shares of Ryanair from a 
"buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. Three equities research analysts have 
rated the stock with a sell rating, six have issued  a hold rating and four have assigned  a buy rating to the 
company. Ryanair presently has an average rating of "Hold" and a consensus target price of $110.00. 
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 14, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives Consensus Rating of 'Hold' from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives Consensus Rating of 'Hold' from 
Brokerages
DailyPolitical
June 14, 2018 Thursday 6:35 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 669 words
Body
Jun 13, 2018( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) have been assigned an average recommendation of "Hold" from the thirteen ratings firms that 
are currently covering the firm, MarketBeat Ratings[1] reports. Three investment analysts have rated the stock with 
a sell recommendation, six have issued a hold recommendation and four have given a buy recommendation to the 
company. The average 12-month target price among analysts that have issued a report on the stock in the last year 
is $109.00. RYAAY has been the subject of several research reports. 
Zacks Investment Research[2] upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price 
target for the company in a report on Thursday, March 29th. BidaskClub lowered Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating 
to a "buy" rating in a report on Thursday, March 1st. ValuEngine[3] lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" 
rating in a report on Wednesday, May 9th. Exane BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, Deutsche Bank lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a 
"hold" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th.Shares of Ryanair opened at $118.40 on Thursday, MarketBeat 
Ratings[4] reports. The stock has a market cap of $27.69 billion, a PE ratio of 16.79 and a beta of 0.64. The 
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23. Ryanair has a 52-week 
low of $101.10 and a 52-week high of $127.61. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings 
results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, 
beating the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion 
during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a 
net margin of 20.13%. equities analysts expect that Ryanair will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal 
year. A number of institutional investors and hedge funds have recently bought and sold shares of the stock. 
Comerica Bank increased its position in Ryanair by 6.5% in the 4th quarter. Comerica Bank now owns 14,708 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,797,000 after buying an additional 894 shares during the 
period. US Bancorp DE increased its position in Ryanair by 168.2% in the 4th quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 
1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $122,000 after buying an additional 735 shares during the 
period. ING Groep NV bought a new position in Ryanair in the 4th quarter worth approximately $729,000. M...ank 
Corp increased its position in Ryanair by 120.6% in the 4th quarter. M...ank Corp now owns 42,320 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $4,410,000 after buying an additional 23,136 shares during the period. 
Finally, OLD National Bancorp IN increased its position in Ryanair by 71.5% in the 4th quarter. OLD National 
Bancorp IN now owns 5,410 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $564,000 after buying an 
additional 2,256 shares during the period. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 43.72% of the 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives Consensus Rating of 'Hold' from Brokerages
company's stock. About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger 
airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various 
ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation 
services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and 
merchandise. 
[ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
Load-Date: June 14, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Calls For EU Action To Resolve ATC Staffing Crisis
Ryanair Calls For EU Action To Resolve ATC Staffing Crisis
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
June 14, 2018 Thursday 11:41 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 178 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) called for urgent action by the EU Commission and European 
Governments to prevent a full meltdown of ATC services. The company said, unless the ATC staffing crisis is 
addressed, thousands more flights will be disrupted, particularly in the peak months of July and August.  Ryanair's 
CEO Michael O'Leary said: 'Europe's ATC providers are approaching the point of meltdown with hundreds of flights 
being cancelled daily simply because they don't have enough staff to deal with them. The situation is particularly 
acute at weekends where British and German ATC providers are hiding behind adverse weather and euphemisms 
such as 'capacity restrictions' when the truth is they are not rostering enough ATC staff to cater for the number of 
flights that are scheduled to operate.'   The company noted that, in May 2018, over 117,000 flights were delayed 
with 61% (over 71,000 flights) due to ATC staff shortages and strikes. In May, Ryanair cancelled over 1,000 flights, 
almost all due to ATC staff shortages and strikes.      
Load-Date: June 14, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair base 'no vote of confidence'
Ryanair base 'no vote of confidence'
City A.M.
June 14, 2018 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 5
Length: 197 words
Byline: KATE PLUMMER
Body
RYANAIR will open a new base at London Southend airport next April, despite its oft-repeated warnings of "serious 
disruption" to flights after the UK leaves the European Union.
But the airline's chief commercial officer David O'Brien warned the move should not be viewed as "some sort of 
vote of confidence in the future of UK aviation" - despite investing £225m in 13 new routes to eight EU countries.
Instead, he said it was "a vote of confidence in Southend Airport", rather than a "reversal of opinion on the merits of 
Brexit".
In February, the airline claimed that Brexit could cause "serious disruption" to flights between the UK and EU, 
pending negotiations about what the UK will do without the Open Skies agreement when leaving the EU.
Ryanair has also applied for a UK licence to protect its operations in the event of a "hard Brexit" to guarantee its UK 
domestic routes, if no deal is agreed with the bloc.
Yesterday the airline said it will invest £225m into a new base which will house three new aircraft. The airline will fly 
13 new routes to airports such as Corfu, Dublin, Malaga and Venice.
London Southend said it will bring in at least 1m extra passengers in the first year.
Graphic
 
Ryanair base 'no vote of confidence'
Ryanair's £225m base at Southend is not 'a reversal of opinion on the merits of Brexit'
Load-Date: June 14, 2018
End of Document
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: FTSE Boosted After UK Inflation Data Disappoints
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: FTSE Boosted After UK Inflation Data 
Disappoints
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
June 13, 2018 Wednesday 7:10 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 1205 words
Body
 London share prices were higher at midday on Wednesday, with the FTSE 100 supported by weakness in the 
pound, which slipped following uninspiring UK inflation data.
The FTSE 100 index was up 0.4%, or 28.63 points, at 7,732.44 at midday. The mid-cap FTSE 250 index was up 
0.2% at 21,291.95. The AIM All-Share index was flat at 1.101.55.
The Cboe UK 100 was up 0.3% at 13,112.24, the Cboe UK 250 was up 0.3% at 19,468.81, and the Cboe UK Small 
Companies was down 0.2% at 12,907.68.
"The pound continued to stumble over every obstacle placed in its way this week, the currency falling following a 
disappointing - if expected - inflation reading," said Spreadex analyst Connor Campbell.
On the London Stock Exchange, Glencore was among the best blue-chip performers, up 2.7% after the miner and 
commodities trader reached a settlement with the Democratic Republic of the Congo's state mining company.
The Switzerland-headquartered miner said its subsidiary Katanga Mining has agreed with Gecamines a number of 
remedies which will see the latter drop all legal proceedings. Gecamine had been seeking either a wind-up of the 
Kamoto Copper Co joint venture, held 75% by Katanga and the rest by Gecamines, due to the partnership's capital 
issues. 
To remedy this, Katanga and Gecamines have agreed USD5.60 billion out of Kamoto's USD9 billion debt will be 
converted into equity. Further, Kamoto will waive its entitlement to replacement reserves and incurred drilling costs 
on Gecamines' behalf, amounting to a total of USD342 million.
At the other end of the large cap index, online takeaway platform Just Eat was the worst performer, down 10%, 
amid UK expansion plans by rival Deliveroo. 
The Guardian newspaper reported late Tuesday that Deliveroo intends to sign up 5,000 more UK eateries. 
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: FTSE Boosted After UK Inflation Data Disappoints
Just Eat recently said it was planning to launch its own delivery fleet in the UK, Canada, Australia and New 
Zealand, competing with Deliveroo. Until now, Just Eat has relied on restaurants to make their own deliveries, 
whereas Deliveroo is know for its ubiquitous bicycle couriers.
Deliveroo fired back with its own UK expansion plans expecting to add 5,000 UK eateries to its network as well as 
employ "thousands" of more couriers to its existing team of 15,000 riders.
In addition, Deliveroo plans to offer restaurants with their own delivery the option of using Deliveroo's couriers at 
busy times. As such, Deliveroo's new service would enable users to choose from 50% more restaurants, The 
Guardian noted.
In the FTSE 250, Stobart Group was the best performer at midday up 8.3% after Irish budge airline Ryanair 
Holdings said it will open a new base at London Southend Airport from April next year to deliver one million guests 
annually. 
Ryanair inked a five-year deal with the midcap support services firm - which owns the airport in Essex, east of 
London. The contract can be extended to ten years.
The airline plans to invest USD300 million into three aircraft based at London Southend Airport and introduce 13 
new routes to eight European countries. Ryanair shares were up 0.3%.
TalkTalk Telecom Group shares were up 7.5% after Merrill Lynch double upgraded the home phone and internet 
services provider to Buy from Underperform. 
At the other end of the midcaps, Dixons Carphone was down 3.9% after the mobile phone and electrical goods 
retailer admitted to a data breach of its payment processing systems.
Dixons Carphone said it added extra security measures and engaged with cyber security experts after hackers 
attempted to gain unauthorised access to its systems and data.
The company said there was an attempt to compromise 5.9 million bank cards in one of the processing systems of 
its Currys PC World and Dixons Travel stores. As a result, the company said about 105,000 non-EU issued 
payment cards which do not have chip and pin protection have been compromised. Dixons currently has no 
evidence that any fraudulent activity took place, but it informed the relevant authority about the incident.
In addition, 1.2 million records containing non-financial personal data, such as names, residential addresses and 
email address, were accessed. 
The pound was marginally lower against the dollar at USD1.3340 compared to USD1.3354 at the London equities 
close Tuesday, following lacklustre UK inflation data.
UK inflation remained stable in May, the Office for National Statistics reported.
Consumer price inflation held steady at 2.4%, the lowest since March 2017, and in line with expectations. Month-
on-month, consumer prices gained 0.4% in May, matching economists' expectations.
Core inflation excluding energy, food, alcoholic beverages and tobacco also remained stable in May, at 2.1%.
At the same time, output price inflation climbed to 2.9% annually, as expected, from 2.5%. Month-on-month, prices 
registered a steady increase of 0.4%, while economists had forecast a 0.3% rise.
"[Bank of England] Governor Mark Carney will remain hopeful that inflation will return to target without the need for 
any further tightening of policy and with the inflationary pressures of the sterling's post-Brexit vote drop still 
expected to decline in the coming months the bank may well stand pat for the foreseeable future," said XTB chief 
market analyst David Cheetham.
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: FTSE Boosted After UK Inflation Data Disappoints
In addition, UK house price inflation eased further in April to the lowest level in just over a year, figures from the 
Office for National Statistics showed.
The house price index climbed 3.9% year-over-year in April, slower than March's 4.2% rise. The average UK house 
price was GBP227,000 in April, which was GBP9,000 higher than in the same month of the prior year and 
GBP3,000 lower than a month ago.
On a regional basis, London remained the region with the highest average house price at GBP485,000, followed by 
the South East and the East of England.
In Paris the CAC 40 was up 0.3%, while the DAX 30 in Frankfurt was up 0.2%. 
The euro was a touch lower against the dollar at USD1.1762 compared to USD1.1783 at the European equities 
close Tuesday.
In economic news, eurozone industrial production fell more sharply than expected in April at 1.7% compared to 
3.0% in March, on an annual basis. Economists had expected the figure to come in at 2.8%. 
Stocks in New York are set to open higher ahead of the interest rate decision from the US Federal Reserve at 1900 
BST followed by a press conference with Chairman Jerome Powell.
The Fed is widely expected to raise interest rates by 25 basis points as its two-day policy meeting draws to a close. 
With the hike, the federal funds rate is expected to be in a range of 1.75% to 2.0%.
"Markets have almost fully priced in a rate hike today which, assuming the central bank does as expected, should 
draw attention instead to the new economic projections. The central bank has previously indicated that three rate 
hikes this year is likely but with the inflation picking up, the economy performing well and tax reforms having added 
an additional stimulus this year, a fourth could be on the cards," said Oanda senior market analyst Craig Erlam.
The DJIA was called up 0.1%, the S&P 500 index up 0.1% and the Nasdaq Composite up 0.2%.
Still to come in the economic events calendar are US producer prices at 1330 BST and EIA crude oil stocks at 1530 
BST. 
Load-Date: June 14, 2018
End of Document
Analysts' Weekly Ratings Updates for Ryanair ( RYAAY )
Analysts' Weekly Ratings Updates for Ryanair (RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
June 13, 2018 Wednesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 652 words
Body
Ryanair logo A number of firms have modified their ratings and price targets on shares of Ryanair (NASDAQ: 
RYAAY) recently: 
•
6/7/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at Exane BNP Paribas from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating.
•
6/7/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at BNP Paribas from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" 
rating.
•
6/7/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at Deutsche Bank AG from a "buy" rating to a "hold" 
rating.
•
6/1/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating.
•
5/25/2018 - Ryanair  was upgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a "buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating.
•
5/22/2018 - Ryanair  had its "buy" rating reaffirmed by analysts at Deutsche Bank AG.
•
5/14/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at BidaskClub from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" 
rating.
•
5/9/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at ValuEngine  from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating.
•
4/20/2018 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  from a "buy" rating to a 
"sell" rating. According to Zacks, "Ryanair operates an ultra-low cost, scheduled airline serving short-haul, 
point-to-point routes largely in Europe from its bases in airports across Europe. The company offers over 
1,600 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving airports largely throughout Europe, with a principal fleet 
of Boeing 737-800 aircraft.   "
Shares of NASDAQ RYAAY  opened at $118.43 on Wednesday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of 
$101.10 and a 52 week high of $127.61. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-
to-equity ratio of 0.79. The stock has a market capitalization of $27.69 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.80 and 
a beta of 0.64.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping the consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on 
equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, 
compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion.  equities analysts forecast that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post 
7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Analysts' Weekly Ratings Updates for Ryanair ( RYAAY )
A number of hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently modified their holdings of the business. US 
Bancorp DE boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 168.2% during the 4th quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 
1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $122,000 after acquiring an additional 735 shares 
during the last quarter.  Assetmark Inc. boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 64.0% during the 4th quarter. 
Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $138,000 after acquiring an 
additional 516 shares during the last quarter.  Tower Research Capital LLC TRC bought a new stake in shares of  
Ryanair during the 4th quarter valued at about $148,000.  Elkfork Partners LLC bought a new stake in shares of  
Ryanair during the 4th quarter valued at about $166,000.  Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA boosted its position in 
shares of  Ryanair by 2,506.9% during the 4th quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $195,000 after acquiring an additional 1,805 shares during the last 
quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.72% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Load-Date: June 13, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Holdings Lifted by Northern Trust Corp
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Holdings Lifted by Northern Trust Corp
American Banking and Market News
June 13, 2018 Wednesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 635 words
Body
Ryanair logo Northern Trust Corp boosted its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 6.0% in the 
1st quarter, according to its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The firm owned 
387,915 shares of the transportation company's stock after purchasing an additional 21,955 shares during the 
quarter. Northern Trust Corp owned approximately 0.17% of Ryanair worth $47,655,000 as of its most recent SEC 
filing.  
A number of other hedge funds have also bought and sold shares of RYAAY. US Bancorp DE raised its holdings in 
shares of  Ryanair by 168.2% during the 4th quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $122,000 after acquiring an additional 735 shares in the last quarter.  Assetmark Inc. raised 
its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 64.0% during the 4th quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $138,000 after acquiring an additional 516 shares in the last quarter.  Tower 
Research Capital LLC TRC purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 4th quarter worth approximately 
$148,000.  Elkfork Partners LLC purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 4th quarter worth 
approximately $166,000.  Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA raised its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 2,506.9% 
during the 4th quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$195,000 after acquiring an additional 1,805 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  
43.72% of the company's stock.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $118.43 on Wednesday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a fifty-two week low of $101.10 
and a fifty-two week high of $127.61. The firm has a market cap of $27.69 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.80 and a beta of 
0.64. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a current ratio of 1.23.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, beating the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of 
$0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. The company had revenue 
of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion.  sell-side analysts forecast that  
Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 EPS for the current year.  
Several analysts recently weighed in on RYAAY shares. Exane BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Deutsche Bank lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to 
a "hold" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. BidaskClub lowered Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" 
rating in a report on Friday, June 1st. Finally, ValuEngine  lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Holdings Lifted by Northern Trust Corp
report on Wednesday, May 9th. Three investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have given a 
hold rating and four have issued  a buy rating to the stock. The stock currently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and 
a consensus target price of $110.00. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 13, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair to grow London network with Southend base Ryanair is to open a base at London Southend in April 
2019, stationing three aircraft at the UK airport.
Ryanair to grow London network with Southend base; Ryanair is to open a 
base at London Southend in April 2019, stationing three aircraft at the UK 
airport.
Flight International
June 13, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 316 words
Body
Ryanair is to open a base at London Southend in April 2019, stationing three aircraft at the airport.
The Irish-headquartered budget carrier – which already operates from London's Stansted, Luton and Gatwick 
airports – says it will launch 13 routes from Southend, which is located around 60km from the UK capital.
Five of the destinations are in Spain: Alicante, Bilbao, Malaga, Palma de Mallorca and Reus. Two are Italian – 
Bergamo and Venice – and the other six spread across six countries: Brest in France, Corfu in Greece, Cluj in 
Romania, Irish capital Dublin, Faro in Portugal, and Kosice in Slovakia.
Frequency is set at five flights per week for Alicante, Faro and Malaga; four for Bergamo, Bilbao, Palma and 
Venice; three for Cluj and Kosice; and two for the others. The Dublin service will be twice-daily.
The Irish carrier already operates from the London airports of Stansted, Luton and Gatwick. FlightGlobal schedules 
data shows that Ryanair does not currently serve five of the new Southend routes - Bilbao, Brest, Cluj, Kosice, 
Venice - from its other London airports.
Ryanair's chief commercial officer David O'Brien highlights the advantages to Southend airport of the Crossrail 
service scheduled to begin next year. He says the new railway will make the airport "even more accessible from all 
parts of London".
Warwick Brady, chief executive of Southend's operator Stobart Group, expects Ryanair's arrival to help the airport 
reach its goal of five million passengers per annum by 2022.
FlightGlobal schedules data shows that Ryanair will compete directly with EasyJet on the Alicante, Faro, Malaga 
and Palma routes. The UK low-cost carrier links Southend with Barcelona's main airport; Reus is a 96km drive to 
the west.
Ryanair to grow London network with Southend base Ryanair is to open a base at London Southend in April 
2019, stationing three aircraft at the UK airport.
Another UK airline, Flybe, flies between Dublin and Southend. The regional operator also links Southend to Milan's 
main airport, Malpensa; Bergama is about 50km away.
Load-Date: June 13, 2018
End of Document
6-K - RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (0001038683) (Filer)
6-K - RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (0001038683) (Filer)
Newstex Blogs
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
June 13, 2018 Wednesday 12:07 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 97 words
Body
Jun 13, 2018( U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission: https://www.sec.gov Delivered by Newstex)  Filing Date 
2018-06-13 Accepted 2018-06-13 07:12:06 Documents 1 Period of Report 2018-06-13 Document Format 
Files[1][2]Mailing Address CT CORPORATION SYSTEM 1633 BROADWAY NEW YORK NY 10019 Business 
Address C/O RYANAIR LTD CORPORATE HEAD OFFICE DUBLIN AIRPORT COUNTY DUBLIN IRELAN L2 
3538444440 [ 1]: 
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1038683/000165495418006557/a2632r.htm 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1038683/000165495418006557/0001654954-18-006557.txt 
Load-Date: June 13, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Signs Agreement With UK's Unite To Recognise Cabin Crew Union
Ryanair Signs Agreement With UK's Unite To Recognise Cabin Crew Union
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
June 12, 2018 Tuesday 4:03 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 218 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) said that it has signed its second cabin crew 
union recognition agreement with Unite the Union, who will now be the representative body for Ryanair directly 
employed cabin crew in the UK. This agreement follows Ryanair's first cabin crew recognition deal with the Italian 
ANPAC/ANPAV unions.  The cabin crew recognition agreement follows extensive negotiations with Unite the Union 
and covers the UK market, which accounts for about 25% of Ryanair's fleet.   Ryanair said it looks forward to 
working with Unite the Union and its Ryanair (Cabin Crew) Company Council to conclude an early CLA for 
Ryanair's directly employed cabin crew based in the UK.  Ryanair's Chief People Officer Eddie Wilson said, 'We are 
pleased to sign this cabin crew recognition agreement with Unite the Union in the U.K. This is a further sign of the 
progress Ryanair is making with trade unions since our December 2017 decision to recognise them. We hope to 
announce further agreements over the coming weeks, in those countries where unions have approached these 
negotiations in a practical and positive manner. We are making less progress in some smaller countries where 
minor issues (such as days off for union officials) are unnecessarily delaying agreements.'      
Load-Date: June 12, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Bought by Hsbc Holdings PLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Hsbc Holdings PLC
American Banking and Market News
June 12, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 745 words
Body
Ryanair logo Hsbc Holdings PLC raised its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 10.2% during the 
1st quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The 
firm owned 17,583 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 1,628 shares during 
the quarter. Hsbc Holdings PLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $2,160,000 at the end of the most recent 
reporting period.  
A number of other institutional investors also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the business. Castleark 
Management LLC raised its holdings in  Ryanair by 20.3% in the 4th quarter. Castleark Management LLC now 
owns 2,520 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $263,000 after acquiring an additional 425 
shares during the period.  Comerica Bank grew its position in shares of  Ryanair by 3.4% during the 1st quarter. 
Comerica Bank now owns 15,202 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,756,000 after purchasing 
an additional 494 shares in the last quarter.  Assetmark Inc. grew its position in shares of  Ryanair by 64.0% during 
the 4th quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $138,000 after 
purchasing an additional 516 shares in the last quarter.  Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. grew its 
position in shares of  Ryanair by 35.5% during the 4th quarter. Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. now 
owns 2,754 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $287,000 after purchasing an additional 721 shares 
in the last quarter.  Finally, US Bancorp DE grew its position in shares of  Ryanair by 168.2% during the 4th quarter. 
US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $122,000 after purchasing an 
additional 735 shares in the last quarter. 43.72% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other 
institutional investors.  
Ryanair opened at $118.21 on Tuesday, according to MarketBeat.com . The company has a current ratio of 1.23, a 
quick ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. The company has a market cap of $27.40 billion, a P/E ratio of 
16.77 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $101.10 and a 1 year high of $127.61.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping the Thomson Reuters' consensus 
estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst 
estimates of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%.  equities analysts 
expect that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 EPS for the current year.  
A number of research analysts have issued reports on RYAAY shares. Zacks Investment Research  upgraded 
shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 target price on the stock in a research 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Bought by Hsbc Holdings PLC
report on Thursday, March 29th. BidaskClub lowered shares of Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating 
in a research report on Monday, May 14th. Deutsche Bank lowered shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" 
rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. Exane BNP Paribas lowered shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally,            ValuEngine  
lowered shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Wednesday, May 9th. Three 
investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have issued  a hold rating and four have assigned  a 
buy rating to the company. The company  has an average rating of "Hold" and a consensus target price of $110.00. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 12, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Stake Increased by Sei Investments Co.
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Stake Increased by Sei Investments Co.
American Banking and Market News
June 12, 2018 Tuesday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 734 words
Body
Ryanair logo Sei Investments Co. lifted its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 24.1% in the 1st 
quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC). The institutional investor  owned 58,990 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an 
additional 11,452 shares during the quarter. Sei Investments Co.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $7,247,000 at 
the end of the most recent reporting period.  
Several other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. 
W.G. Shaheen & Associates DBA Whitney & Co grew its position in  Ryanair by 2.5% during the first quarter. W.G. 
Shaheen & Associates DBA Whitney & Co now owns 30,884 shares of the transportation company's stock valued 
at $3,794,000 after buying an additional 744 shares during the period.  Hsbc Holdings PLC grew its position in  
Ryanair by 10.2% during the first quarter. Hsbc Holdings PLC now owns 17,583 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $2,160,000 after buying an additional 1,628 shares during the period.  Great West Life 
Assurance Co. Can grew its position in  Ryanair by 379.3% during the first quarter. Great West Life Assurance Co. 
Can now owns 127,548 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $15,666,000 after buying an 
additional 100,938 shares during the period.  First Republic Investment Management Inc. grew its position in  
Ryanair by 29.6% during the first quarter. First Republic Investment Management Inc. now owns 10,406 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $1,278,000 after buying an additional 2,374 shares during the period.  
Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co. grew its position in  Ryanair by 2.9% during the first quarter. JPMorgan Chase & 
Co. now owns 1,712,088 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $210,330,000 after buying an 
additional 48,728 shares during the period. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own  43.72% of the 
company's stock.  
RYAAY has been the topic of several recent research reports. BidaskClub raised shares of Ryanair from a "buy" 
rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a report on Saturday, March 17th. Zacks Investment Research  raised shares of 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price objective on the stock in a report on Thursday, 
March 29th. Deutsche Bank downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on 
Thursday, June 7th. BNP Paribas downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in 
a report on Thursday, June 7th. Finally, Exane BNP Paribas downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday, June 7th. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, 
six have assigned  a hold rating and four have given a buy rating to the company's stock. The company currently 
has a consensus rating of "Hold" and a consensus price target of $110.00. 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Stake Increased by Sei Investments Co.
Ryanair opened at $118.21 on Tuesday, according to MarketBeat.com . The stock has a market cap of $27.40 
billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.77 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $101.10 and 
a 52 week high of $127.61. The company has a current ratio of 1.23, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio 
of 0.79.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, beating the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. 
The business had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion. 
Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%.  analysts anticipate that  Ryanair Holdings 
plc will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 12, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair signs second cabin crew union recognition agreement with Unite the Union
Ryanair signs second cabin crew union recognition agreement with Unite 
the Union
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 12, 2018 Tuesday 5:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Technology & Telecommunications
Length: 232 words
Highlight: Ryanair announced that it has signed its second cabin crew union recognition agreement with Unite the 
Union, who will now be the representative body for Ryanair directly employed cabin crew in the UK.
Body
This agreement follows Ryanair's first cabin crew recognition deal with the Italian ANPAC/ANPAV unions.This cabin 
crew recognition agreement follows extensive negotiations with Unite the Union and covers the UK market, which 
accounts for approx. 25% of Ryanair's fleet. 
Ryanair looks forward to working with Unite the Union and its Ryanair (Cabin Crew) Company Council to conclude 
an early CLA for Ryanair's directly employed cabin crew based in the UK.Ryanair's Chief People Officer Eddie 
Wilson said:"We are pleased to sign this cabin crew recognition agreement with Unite the Union in the U.K. This is 
a further sign of the progress Ryanair is making with trade unions since our December 2017 decision to recognise 
them. We hope to announce further agreements over the coming weeks, in those countries where unions have 
approached these negotiations in a practical and positive manner. We are making less progress in some smaller 
countries where minor issues (such as days off for union officials) are unnecessarily delaying agreements.However, 
as this growing number of pilot and cabin crew recognition agreements confirms, we are making progress and 
confounding those sceptics who claimed that our December 2017 decision was not real or genuine. We look 
forward to working closely with both Unite the Union, and their Company Council to address issues of concern to 
our UK based cabin crew."
Load-Date: June 26, 2018
End of Document
UK cabin crew union secures Ryanair deal
UK cabin crew union secures Ryanair deal
City A.M.
June 12, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 8
Length: 262 words
Byline: OSCAR LOPEZ
Body
RYANAIR yesterday signed a landmark agreement to recognise UK cabin crew union Unite, which will negotiate 
pay, hours and holidays.
The recognition agreement covers around 650 directly employed cabin crew operating out of Ryanair's UK bases.
Unite represents over 25,000 cabin crew working for major airlines operating out of the UK.
Unite general secretary Len McCluskey said: "This is a historic agreement and a significant step by Ryanair. For the 
first time ever Ryanair's UK cabin crew will have a recognised union in their corner to deal with workplace issues 
and collectively bargain on pay.
"I would like to thank all those involved in securing this agreement which shows what can be achieved by patient, 
determined negotiation.
"Unite looks forward to building a positive relationship with Ryanair that benefits passengers and workers alike."
The agreement comes after the embattled airline said it would recognise pilots' unions last December in order to 
avert holiday strife over potential strikes.
Ryanair's chief people officer Eddie Wilson said: "We are pleased to sign this cabin crew recognition agreement 
with Unite the union in the UK. This is a further sign of the progress Ryanair is making with trade unions since our 
December 2017 decision to recognise them."
Ryanair had previously held firm to its long-standing policy of not recognising unions, but threats of industrial action 
have forced the Irish airline to reconsider.
UK cabin crew union secures Ryanair deal
The low-cost carrier was forced to cancel hundreds of flights in 2017 at huge expense, due to errors scheduling 
pilots' annual leave.
Load-Date: June 12, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to 'Neutral' at BNP Paribas
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to 'Neutral' at BNP Paribas
Watchlist News
June 11, 2018 Monday 10:41 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 642 words
Body
Jun 11, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)             
https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgBNP 
Paribas 
cut 
shares 
of 
Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) from an outperform rating to a neutral rating in a report published on Thursday, MarketBeat[1] 
reports.Several other equities research analysts have also issued reports on the stock. Zacks Investment 
Research[2] upgraded shares of Ryanair from a hold rating to a buy rating and set a $137.00 price target for the 
company in a research note on Thursday, March 29th. 
BidaskClub upgraded shares of Ryanair from a buy rating to a strong-buy rating in a research note on Wednesday, 
February 21st. ValuEngine[3] lowered shares of Ryanair from a buy rating to a hold rating in a research note on 
Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank lowered shares of Ryanair from a buy rating to a hold rating in a 
research note on Thursday. Three equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have issued 
a hold rating and four have given a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair has a consensus rating of Hold and 
a consensus target price of $110.00.Shares of RYAAY stock[4] opened at $116.99 on Thursday. The company has 
a quick ratio of 1.23, a current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. Ryanair has a 12-month low of 
$101.10 and a 12-month high of $127.61. The company has a market cap of $27.40 billion, a PE ratio of 16.59, a 
P/E/G ratio of 2.75 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on 
Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping 
the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on 
equity of 31.73%. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of 
$1.56 billion. equities analysts forecast that Ryanair will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year. 
Institutional investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. Comerica Bank boosted its 
holdings in Ryanair by 6.5% in the 4th quarter. Comerica Bank now owns 14,708 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $1,797,000 after purchasing an additional 894 shares during the period. US Bancorp DE 
boosted its holdings in Ryanair by 168.2% in the 4th quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $122,000 after purchasing an additional 735 shares during the period. 
American Century Companies Inc. boosted its holdings in Ryanair by 8.5% in the 4th quarter. American Century 
Companies Inc. now owns 1,117,286 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $116,410,000 after 
purchasing an additional 87,170 shares during the period. First Mercantile Trust Co. bought a new position in 
Ryanair in the 4th quarter valued at $459,000. Finally, ING Groep NV bought a new position in Ryanair in the 4th 
quarter valued at $729,000. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.72% of the company's stock. Ryanair 
Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services 
in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to 'Neutral' at BNP Paribas
such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and 
travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. [ 
1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 3]:       
     http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY [ 4]:            
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
Load-Date: June 11, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Cut to 'Neutral' at Exane BNP Paribas
Ryanair (RYAAY) Cut to 'Neutral' at Exane BNP Paribas
Watchlist News
June 11, 2018 Monday 10:41 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 669 words
Body
Jun 11, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)             
https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgExane BNP Paribas downgraded shares of Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) from an outperform rating to a neutral rating in a research report released on Thursday 
morning, The Fly[1] reports.Several other equities research analysts have also recently weighed in on RYAAY. BNP 
Paribas cut Ryanair from an outperform rating to a neutral rating in a report on Thursday. 
Deutsche Bank cut Ryanair from a buy rating to a hold rating in a report on Thursday. BidaskClub cut Ryanair from 
a strong-buy rating to a buy rating in a report on Friday, June 1st. ValuEngine[2] cut Ryanair from a buy rating to a 
hold rating in a report on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Zacks Investment Research[3] cut Ryanair from a buy rating 
to a sell rating in a report on Friday, April 20th. Three investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six 
have issued a hold rating and four have issued a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock currently has a 
consensus rating of Hold and an average price target of $110.00.Shares of Ryanair stock[4] opened at $116.99 on 
Thursday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a current ratio of 1.23. The 
stock has a market cap of $27.40 billion, a PE ratio of 16.59, a PEG ratio of 2.75 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair has a 
12 month low of $101.10 and a 12 month high of $127.61. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly 
earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, beating the 
consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst 
estimates of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. research analysts 
forecast that Ryanair will post 7.08 EPS for the current year. Hedge funds have recently modified their holdings of 
the stock. Castleark Management LLC lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 20.3% in the 4th quarter. Castleark 
Management LLC now owns 2,520 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $263,000 after buying an 
additional 425 shares during the period. Comerica Bank lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 3.4% in the 1st quarter. 
Comerica Bank now owns 15,202 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,756,000 after buying an 
additional 494 shares during the period. Assetmark Inc. lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 64.0% in the 4th quarter. 
Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $138,000 after buying an 
additional 516 shares during the period. Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. lifted its holdings in Ryanair 
by 35.5% in the 4th quarter. Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. now owns 2,754 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $287,000 after buying an additional 721 shares during the period. Finally, US 
Bancorp DE lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 168.2% in the 4th quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $122,000 after buying an additional 735 shares during the period. 
Institutional investors own 43.72% of the company's stock. About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with its 
subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Cut to 'Neutral' at Exane BNP Paribas
Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-
related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as 
engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.http://www.thefly.com [ 1]:            
http://www.thefly.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
Load-Date: June 11, 2018
End of Document
NS Partners Ltd Lowers Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
NS Partners Ltd Lowers Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
June 11, 2018 Monday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 709 words
Body
Ryanair logo NS Partners Ltd trimmed its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 3.2% during the 
first quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC). The fund owned 90,076 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 3,000 shares during the 
period. NS Partners Ltd's holdings in Ryanair were worth $11,066,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
A number of other large investors have also recently bought and sold shares of the stock. WCM Investment 
Management CA grew its position in  Ryanair by 5.2% in the 1st quarter. WCM Investment Management CA now 
owns 3,719,251 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $456,910,000 after buying an additional 
185,253 shares during the last quarter.  Renaissance Technologies LLC grew its position in  Ryanair by 28.6% in 
the 4th quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC now owns 3,473,819 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $361,937,000 after buying an additional 772,300 shares during the last quarter.  Lazard Asset 
Management LLC grew its position in  Ryanair by 12.6% in the 4th quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now 
owns 2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $302,744,000 after buying an additional 
325,932 shares during the last quarter.  Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA grew its position in  Ryanair by 
53.3% in the 1st quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,217,338 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $272,400,000 after buying an additional 770,774 shares during the last 
quarter.  Finally, Thornburg Investment Management Inc. grew its position in  Ryanair by 20.4% in the 1st quarter. 
Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares of the transportation company's stock valued 
at $242,499,000 after buying an additional 334,623 shares during the last quarter. Hedge funds and other 
institutional investors own  43.72% of the company's stock.  
RYAAY has been the subject of a number of recent analyst reports. Zacks Investment Research  raised Ryanair 
from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 target price for the company in a report on Thursday, March 
29th. BidaskClub downgraded Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Thursday, March 
1st.            ValuEngine  downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Wednesday, May 
9th. Exane BNP Paribas downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on 
Thursday. Finally, Deutsche Bank downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on 
Thursday. Three investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have given a hold rating and four 
have issued  a buy rating to the company. Ryanair  has an average rating of "Hold" and an average price target of 
$110.00. 
NS Partners Ltd Lowers Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Ryanair opened at $116.99 on Monday, Marketbeat Ratings  reports. The firm has a market cap of $27.40 billion, a 
PE ratio of 16.59 and a beta of 0.64. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a 
quick ratio of 1.23. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $101.10 and a 52-week high of $127.61.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping the consensus estimate of $0.25 by 
$0.05. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 
billion. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%.  analysts expect that  Ryanair 
Holdings plc will post 7.08 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 11, 2018
End of Document
NS Partners Ltd Lowers Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
NS Partners Ltd Lowers Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Transcript Daily
June 11, 2018 Monday 6:26 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 745 words
Body
Jun 11, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  NS Partners Ltd trimmed its 
position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 3.2% during the first quarter, according to the company in its 
most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The fund owned 90,076 shares of the 
transportation company's stock after selling 3,000 shares during the period. NS Partners Ltd's holdings in Ryanair 
were worth $11,066,000 as of its most recent SEC filing. A number of other large investors have also recently 
bought and sold shares of the stock. WCM Investment Management CA grew its position in Ryanair by 5.2% in the 
1st quarter. WCM Investment Management CA now owns 3,719,251 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $456,910,000 after buying an additional 185,253 shares during the last quarter. Renaissance 
Technologies LLC grew its position in Ryanair by 28.6% in the 4th quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC now 
owns 3,473,819 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $361,937,000 after buying an additional 
772,300 shares during the last quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC grew its position in Ryanair by 12.6% in the 
4th quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $302,744,000 after buying an additional 325,932 shares during the last quarter. Massachusetts Financial 
Services Co. MA grew its position in Ryanair by 53.3% in the 1st quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA 
now owns 2,217,338 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $272,400,000 after buying an 
additional 770,774 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Thornburg Investment Management Inc. grew its position 
in Ryanair by 20.4% in the 1st quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $242,499,000 after buying an additional 334,623 shares during the last 
quarter. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 43.72% of the company's stock. RYAAY has been the 
subject of a number of recent analyst reports. Zacks Investment Research[1] raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to 
a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 target price for the company in a report on Thursday, March 29th. BidaskClub 
downgraded Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Thursday, March 1st. ValuEngine[2] 
downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Wednesday, May 9th. Exane BNP Paribas 
downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday. Finally, Deutsche 
Bank downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Thursday. Three investment analysts 
have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have given a hold rating and four have issued a buy rating to the 
company. Ryanair has an average rating of "Hold" and an average price target of $110.00.Ryanair opened at 
$116.99 on Monday, Marketbeat Ratings[3] reports. The firm has a market cap of $27.40 billion, a PE ratio of 16.59 
and a beta of 0.64. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $101.10 and a 52-week high of $127.61. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
last released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 
earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping the consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The business had 
NS Partners Ltd Lowers Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a 
return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. analysts expect that Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 
EPS for the current fiscal year. Ryanair ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides 
scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It 
also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and 
markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale 
of 
beverages, 
food, 
and 
merchandise. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
Load-Date: June 12, 2018
End of Document
Epoch Investment Partners Inc. Sells 9,403 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Epoch Investment Partners Inc. Sells 9,403 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
June 10, 2018 Sunday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 664 words
Body
Ryanair logo Epoch Investment Partners Inc. lowered its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
10.5% in the first quarter, according to its most recent 13F filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The 
firm owned 79,934 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 9,403 shares during the period. Epoch 
Investment Partners Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $9,820,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
A number of other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also bought and sold shares of the business. 
US Bancorp DE lifted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 168.2% during the 4th quarter. US Bancorp DE now 
owns 1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $122,000 after acquiring an additional 735 shares 
during the period.  Assetmark Inc. lifted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 64.0% during the 4th quarter. 
Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $138,000 after acquiring an 
additional 516 shares during the period.  Tower Research Capital LLC TRC bought a new stake in shares of  
Ryanair during the 4th quarter worth approximately $148,000.  Elkfork Partners LLC bought a new stake in shares 
of  Ryanair during the 4th quarter worth approximately $166,000.  Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA lifted its holdings 
in shares of  Ryanair by 2,506.9% during the 4th quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $195,000 after acquiring an additional 1,805 shares during the period. 
43.72% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
RYAAY has been the subject of a number of recent analyst reports. Zacks Investment Research  raised shares of 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target for the company in a report on 
Thursday, March 29th. BidaskClub downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a 
report on Thursday, March 1st.            ValuEngine  downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" 
rating in a report on Wednesday, May 9th. Exane BNP Paribas downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday. Finally, Deutsche Bank downgraded shares of Ryanair from a 
"buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Thursday. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six 
have issued  a hold rating and four have assigned  a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair currently has a 
consensus rating of "Hold" and an average price target of $110.00. 
Ryanair opened at $116.99 on Friday, Marketbeat Ratings  reports. The company has a market cap of $27.62 
billion, a P/E ratio of 16.59, a P/E/G ratio of 2.78 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of 
$101.10 and a 1 year high of $127.61. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-
equity ratio of 0.79.  
Epoch Investment Partners Inc. Sells 9,403 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 
by $0.05. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 
billion. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%.  research analysts expect that  
Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 10, 2018
End of Document
Epoch Investment Partners Inc. Sells 9,403 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Epoch Investment Partners Inc. Sells 9,403 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
June 10, 2018 Sunday 10:35 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 732 words
Body
Jun 10, 2018( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Epoch Investment Partners Inc. 
reduced 
its 
holdings 
in 
Ryanair 
Holdings 
plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
by 
10.5% 
in 
the 
1st 
quarter, 
HoldingsChannel.com[1] reports. The fund owned 79,934 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 
9,403 shares during the period. 
Epoch Investment Partners Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $9,820,000 at the end of the most recent quarter. 
Other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also made changes to their positions in the company. 
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. increased its position in Ryanair by 25.2% in the 4th quarter. Goldman Sachs Group 
Inc. now owns 116,474 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $12,135,000 after acquiring an 
additional 23,471 shares during the period. Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. increased its position in shares of 
Ryanair by 5.9% during the fourth quarter. Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. now owns 39,400 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $4,105,000 after buying an additional 2,200 shares during the period. Capital 
Fund Management S.A. increased its position in shares of Ryanair by 38.6% during the fourth quarter. Capital Fund 
Management S.A. now owns 41,928 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $4,368,000 after buying an 
additional 11,682 shares during the period. D.A. Davidson .... acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 
fourth quarter worth $341,000. Finally, We Are One Seven LLC acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair during 
the fourth quarter worth $211,000. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 43.72% of the company's 
stock. RYAAY has been the subject of several recent analyst reports. BidaskClub upgraded shares of Ryanair from 
a "buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a research report on Wednesday, February 21st. Zacks Investment 
Research[2] upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price objective for 
the company in a research report on Thursday, March 29th. ValuEngine[3] cut shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating 
to a "hold" rating in a research report on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank reiterated a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, May 22nd. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell 
rating, six have issued a hold rating and four have given a buy rating to the stock. Ryanair currently has an average 
rating of "Hold" and an average target price of $110.00.Shares of NASDAQ RYAAY[4] opened at $116.99 on 
Friday. The firm has a market cap of $27.62 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.59, a P/E/G ratio of 2.78 and a beta of 0.64. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $101.10 and a 12-month high of $127.61. The company has a debt-to-
equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a current ratio of 1.23. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its 
earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for 
the quarter, topping the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The business had revenue of 
$1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% 
Epoch Investment Partners Inc. Sells 9,403 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
and a return on equity of 31.73%. equities research analysts predict that Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 
earnings per share for the current fiscal year. Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its 
subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, 
Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-
related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as 
engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are holding 
RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[5] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 5]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ 
Load-Date: June 10, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Downgraded to Neutral at Exane BNP Paribas
Ryanair (RYAAY) Downgraded to Neutral at Exane BNP Paribas
DailyPolitical
June 10, 2018 Sunday 4:36 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 639 words
Body
Jun 
10, 
2018( 
DailyPolitical: 
http://www.dailypolitical.com/ 
Delivered 
by 
Newstex) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgExane BNP Paribas cut shares of Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) from an outperform rating to a neutral rating in a report issued on Thursday morning, The Fly[1] 
reports.A number of other research firms have also issued reports on RYAAY. BNP Paribas lowered Ryanair from 
an outperform rating to a neutral rating in a research report on Thursday. 
Deutsche Bank lowered Ryanair from a buy rating to a hold rating in a research report on Thursday. BidaskClub 
lowered Ryanair from a strong-buy rating to a buy rating in a research report on Friday, June 1st. ValuEngine[2] 
lowered Ryanair from a buy rating to a hold rating in a research report on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Zacks 
Investment Research[3] lowered Ryanair from a buy rating to a sell rating in a research report on Friday, April 20th. 
Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have assigned a hold rating and four have issued a buy 
rating to the stock. The stock presently has a consensus rating of Hold and a consensus price target of 
$110.00.Shares of Ryanair opened at $116.99 on Thursday, according to MarketBeat[4]. Ryanair has a twelve 
month low of $101.10 and a twelve month high of $127.61. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a current ratio of 
1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. The company has a market capitalization of $27.40 billion, a PE ratio of 
16.86, a PEG ratio of 2.75 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results 
on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, beating the 
Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 
20.13%. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of 
$1.56 billion. equities analysts forecast that Ryanair will post 7.08 EPS for the current year. A number of hedge 
funds have recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. US Bancorp DE boosted its position in Ryanair by 
168.2% during the 4th quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$122,000 after acquiring an additional 735 shares during the period. Assetmark Inc. boosted its position in Ryanair 
by 64.0% during the 4th quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $138,000 after acquiring an additional 516 shares during the period. Tower Research Capital LLC TRC 
bought a new stake in shares of Ryanair in the 4th quarter worth $148,000. Elkfork Partners LLC bought a new 
stake in shares of Ryanair in the 4th quarter worth $166,000. Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA raised its stake in 
shares of Ryanair by 2,506.9% in the 4th quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $195,000 after buying an additional 1,805 shares in the last quarter. 
Institutional investors own 43.72% of the company's stock. Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together 
with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental 
Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Downgraded to Neutral at Exane BNP Paribas
Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as 
engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.http://www.thefly.com [ 1]:            
http://www.thefly.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 4]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
Load-Date: June 10, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Bought by Principal Financial Group Inc.
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Principal Financial Group 
Inc.
American Banking and Market News
June 9, 2018 Saturday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 692 words
Body
Ryanair logo Principal Financial Group Inc. increased its position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 0.2% in the first quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the 
SEC. The institutional investor  owned 673,871 shares of the transportation company's stock after buying an 
additional 1,431 shares during the quarter. Principal Financial Group Inc. owned 0.29% of Ryanair worth 
$82,785,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
Several other large investors have also recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. US Bancorp DE grew its 
holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 168.2% during the fourth quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $122,000 after buying an additional 735 shares in the last quarter.  Assetmark 
Inc. grew its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 64.0% during the fourth quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $138,000 after buying an additional 516 shares in the last 
quarter.  Tower Research Capital LLC TRC bought a new position in shares of  Ryanair during the fourth quarter 
worth about $148,000.  Elkfork Partners LLC bought a new position in shares of  Ryanair during the fourth quarter 
worth about $166,000.  Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA grew its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 2,506.9% during 
the fourth quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$195,000 after buying an additional 1,805 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  
43.72% of the company's stock.  
RYAAY has been the subject of a number of analyst reports. Zacks Investment Research  upgraded Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target for the company in a research note on Thursday, March 
29th. BidaskClub downgraded Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Monday, 
May 14th. Deutsche Bank downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on 
Thursday. Exane BNP Paribas downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research 
note on Thursday. Finally,            ValuEngine  downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a 
research note on Wednesday, May 9th. Three research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have 
assigned  a hold rating and four have assigned  a buy rating to the company. The stock presently has an average 
rating of "Hold" and an average price target of $110.00. 
Ryanair opened at $116.99 on Friday, MarketBeat.com  reports. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a current 
ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. The company has a market capitalization of $27.62 billion, a price-to-
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Shares Bought by Principal Financial Group Inc.
earnings ratio of 16.59, a P/E/G ratio of 2.78 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair Holdings plc has a twelve month low of 
$101.10 and a twelve month high of $127.61.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, beating the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by 
$0.05. The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 
billion. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%.  research analysts predict that  
Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 9, 2018
End of Document
New York State Common Retirement Fund Trims Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
New York State Common Retirement Fund Trims Holdings in Ryanair 
Holdings plc (RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
June 9, 2018 Saturday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 693 words
Body
Ryanair logo New York State Common Retirement Fund decreased its position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 4.7% during the 1st quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the SEC. 
The institutional investor  owned 157,281 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 7,700 shares 
during the quarter. New York State Common Retirement Fund owned approximately 0.07% of Ryanair worth 
$19,322,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
A number of other large investors have also recently bought and sold shares of the business. US Bancorp DE 
raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 168.2% during the 4th quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $122,000 after acquiring an additional 735 shares during the last 
quarter.  Assetmark Inc. raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 64.0% during the 4th quarter. Assetmark Inc. 
now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $138,000 after acquiring an additional 516 
shares during the last quarter.  Tower Research Capital LLC TRC bought a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during 
the 4th quarter valued at $148,000.  Elkfork Partners LLC bought a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 4th 
quarter valued at $166,000.  Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 2,506.9% 
during the 4th quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $195,000 after acquiring an additional 1,805 shares during the last quarter. 43.72% of the stock is 
currently owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Several analysts have commented on the stock. BidaskClub upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a 
"strong-buy" rating in a research report on Saturday, March 17th. Zacks Investment Research  upgraded shares of 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price objective for the company in a research report 
on Thursday, March 29th. Deutsche Bank cut shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research 
report on Thursday. BNP Paribas cut shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a 
research report on Thursday. Finally, Exane BNP Paribas cut shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a research report on Thursday. Three research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six 
have given a hold rating and four have assigned  a buy rating to the company. The company  has an average rating 
of "Hold" and a consensus target price of $110.00. 
RYAAY  opened at $116.99 on Friday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a 
quick ratio of 1.23. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $101.10 and a 12 month high of $127.61. The firm 
has a market capitalization of $27.62 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.99, a PEG ratio of 2.78 and a beta of 0.64.  
New York State Common Retirement Fund Trims Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY )
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, beating the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair 
had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the 
quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion.  sell-side analysts forecast that  Ryanair Holdings plc 
will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 9, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair 's O'Leary sells 2m shares
Ryanair's O'Leary sells 2m shares
Financial Times (London, England)
June 9, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: MONEY;NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 857 words
Body
Budget airline Ryanair is "on the pessimistic side of cautious" when it comes to the current financial year. Sales are 
expected to increase, but at a slower rate than costs.
Granted, Ryanair's low ticket prices helped boost passenger numbers to more than 130m with an "industryleading" 
load factor of 95 per cent.
A significant issue causing turbulence at Ryanair is what it plans to do in the absence of a Brexit aviation deal. If an 
agreement is not struck before September, then summer 2019 scheduling could be affected.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary appears less than optimistic: he sold 2m shares at (EURO)16.49 each, leaving the 
airline boss with about 44.1m shares or a 3.8 per cent stake.
Homeserve shares have performed well in recent months, jumping from about 720p in early April to close to 900p in 
early June. The question is, why is management selling shares as they seem to be taking off? Johnathan Ford, the 
group's chief operating officer, sold roughly a quarter of his stake, while global chief executive of the membership 
business, TomRusin, sold a fifth of his. Julia Faurschou and Tom Dines, Investors ChronicleNo. of shares Price (p) 
Value (£) Holding Director Date (shares) BUY Barr (AG) Stuart Lorimer (fd) 29 May 18 Barr (AG) Stuart Lorimer (fd) 
29 May 18 ? Burberry Marco Gobbetti (ceo) 29 May 18 Caledonia Investments Guy Davison 30 May 18 Centamin 
Mark Bankes 29 May 18 ClearStar André Schnabl 24 May 18 ClearStar André Schnabl 25 May 18 Dunedin Income 
Growth Inv Trust David Barron (ch) 30 May 18 Dunelm Andy Harrison (ch) 25 May 18 Echo Energy* Fiona Barkham 
(ceo) 25 May 18 Entertainment One Robert McFarlane 25 May 18 FirstGroup Tim O'Toole (ceo) 25 May 18 Georgia 
Capital Irakli Gilauri (ch & ceo) 30 May 18 Georgia Capital? William Huyett 30 May 18 Georgia Capital Irakli Gilauri 
Ryanair 's O'Leary sells 2m shares
(ch & ceo) 29 May 18 Gore Street Energy Storage Fund Malcolm King 25 May 18 Gore Street Energy Storage Fund 
Patrick Cox 25 May 18 Gore Street Energy Storage Fund Caroline Banszky 25 May 18 Harbourvest Global Priv 
Equity Michael Bunbury (ch) 24 May 18 Harbourvest Global Priv Equity? Michael Bunbury (ch) 25 May 18 Hardide 
Charles Irving-Swift 30 May 18 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Sigurdur Olafsson 30 May 18 Intermediate Capital Andrew 
Sykes 30 May 18 ITE Richard Last 24 May 18 ITE Mark Shashoua (ceo) 24 May 18 IXICO Giulio Cerroni 29 May 
18 McKay Securities Jonathan Austen 25 May 18 Nexus Infrastructure Alexander Wiseman 30 May 18 Produce 
Investments Robert Johnston 29 May 18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 
18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 18 Renold Ian Scapens 29 May 18 
2,871 692.67 19,887 18,399 4,293 698.81 30,000 22,692 60,000 2,001.85 1,201,110 189,477 8,100 2,725 220,725 
8,100 40,000 130.367 52,147 190,000 10,000 52.5 5,250 82,000 15,000 58 8,700 97,000 2,757 256.2 7,063 13,977 
92,452 547.53 506,202 416,480 83,333 12 10,000 226,099 14,224 288.913 41,095 14,224 12,350 115.1 14,215 
1,278,298 15,000 1,077 161,550 776,416 6,500 1,120 72,800 7,000 35,000 1,160 406,000 761,416 25,000 100 
25,000 25,000 49,996 100 49,996 49,996 35,000 100 35,000 35,000 4,337 1,250 54,213 27,200 800 1,252 10,016 
38,000 505,050 198 999,999 505,050 20,000 1,309.19 261,838 20,000 10,000 1,118 111,800 10,000 56,750 131.5 
74,626 56,750 230,000 132.7 305,210 285,535 31,550 31.5 9,938 31,550 10,500 280 29,400 20,500 6,000 210 
12,600 15,000 10,000 149 14,900 40,000 7,838 76.02 5,958 170,073 11,765 76.02 8,944 181,838 7,838 76.02 
5,958 189,676 10,456 76.02 7,949 200,132 189,580 26.374 50,000 189,580 Saga Patrick O'Sullivan 25 May 18 
Standard Life Aberdeen Gerhard Fusenig 30 May 18 Stilo International David Ashman (ch) 29 May 18 Stride 
Gaming Ronen Kannor 30 May 18 Taylor Wimpey Angela Knight 30 May 18 Thor Mining Paul Johnson 25 May 18 
Thor Mining Paul Johnson 24 May 18 Thor Mining Paul Johnson 24 May 18 Value and Income Trust Dominic Neary 
30 May 18 100,000 128.1 128,100 100,000 40,000 350 140,000 66,495 475,000 3.7 17,575 14,187,000 39,273 155 
60,873 39,273 5,000 200.571 10,029 10,000 250,000 2.2 5,500 33,250,000 150,000 2.31 3,465 32,900,000 
100,000 2.32 2,320 33,000,000 250,000 2.375 5,938 32,750,000 7,376 269.5 19,878 7,376 SELL Associated 
British Foods John Bason (fd) 29 May 18 Avon Rubber David Evans (ch) 30 May 18 30,000 2,703 810,900 125,290 
5,000 1,405 70,250 25,000 24,000 940 225,600 1,010,835 16,578 3,264.12 541,126 75,371 8,894 3,264.12 
290,311 66,477 44,471 552.78 245,827 341,701 100,000 886.8 886,800 377,908 47,000 897.9 422,013 144,788 
300,000 191.7 575,100 12,662,000 2,000,000 1,445 28,900,000 44,096,725 106,637 575 613,163 934,422 50,000 
300.5 150,250 8,423,834 Churchill China James Roper 24 May 18 Cranswick? James Brisby 24 May 18 
Cranswick? James Brisby 24 May 18 Hammerson Jean-Philippe Mouton 30 May 18 Homeserve Tom Rusin 25 May 
18 Homeserve Johnathan Ford 24 May 18 LondonMetric Property Patrick Vaughan (ch) 30 May 18 Ryanair Michael 
O'Leary (ceo) 30 May 18 Sophos Stephen Munford 24 May 18 Tristel? Francisco Soler 30 May 18 * 
Placing/tender/open offer ? Spouse/connected party Source: Morningstar/Investors Chronicle
Load-Date: June 9, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair 's O'Leary sells 2m shares
Ryanair's O'Leary sells 2m shares
Financial Times (London, England)
June 9, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: MONEY;NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 857 words
Body
Budget airline Ryanair is "on the pessimistic side of cautious" when it comes to the current financial year. Sales are 
expected to increase, but at a slower rate than costs.
Granted, Ryanair's low ticket prices helped boost passenger numbers to more than 130m with an "industryleading" 
load factor of 95 per cent.
A significant issue causing turbulence at Ryanair is what it plans to do in the absence of a Brexit aviation deal. If an 
agreement is not struck before September, then summer 2019 scheduling could be affected.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary appears less than optimistic: he sold 2m shares at (EURO)16.49 each, leaving the 
airline boss with about 44.1m shares or a 3.8 per cent stake.
Homeserve shares have performed well in recent months, jumping from about 720p in early April to close to 900p in 
early June. The question is, why is management selling shares as they seem to be taking off? Johnathan Ford, the 
group's chief operating officer, sold roughly a quarter of his stake, while global chief executive of the membership 
business, TomRusin, sold a fifth of his. Julia Faurschou and Tom Dines, Investors ChronicleNo. of shares Price (p) 
Value (£) Holding Director Date (shares) BUY Barr (AG) Stuart Lorimer (fd) 29 May 18 Barr (AG) Stuart Lorimer (fd) 
29 May 18 ? Burberry Marco Gobbetti (ceo) 29 May 18 Caledonia Investments Guy Davison 30 May 18 Centamin 
Mark Bankes 29 May 18 ClearStar André Schnabl 24 May 18 ClearStar André Schnabl 25 May 18 Dunedin Income 
Growth Inv Trust David Barron (ch) 30 May 18 Dunelm Andy Harrison (ch) 25 May 18 Echo Energy* Fiona Barkham 
(ceo) 25 May 18 Entertainment One Robert McFarlane 25 May 18 FirstGroup Tim O'Toole (ceo) 25 May 18 Georgia 
Capital Irakli Gilauri (ch & ceo) 30 May 18 Georgia Capital? William Huyett 30 May 18 Georgia Capital Irakli Gilauri 
Ryanair 's O'Leary sells 2m shares
(ch & ceo) 29 May 18 Gore Street Energy Storage Fund Malcolm King 25 May 18 Gore Street Energy Storage Fund 
Patrick Cox 25 May 18 Gore Street Energy Storage Fund Caroline Banszky 25 May 18 Harbourvest Global Priv 
Equity Michael Bunbury (ch) 24 May 18 Harbourvest Global Priv Equity? Michael Bunbury (ch) 25 May 18 Hardide 
Charles Irving-Swift 30 May 18 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Sigurdur Olafsson 30 May 18 Intermediate Capital Andrew 
Sykes 30 May 18 ITE Richard Last 24 May 18 ITE Mark Shashoua (ceo) 24 May 18 IXICO Giulio Cerroni 29 May 
18 McKay Securities Jonathan Austen 25 May 18 Nexus Infrastructure Alexander Wiseman 30 May 18 Produce 
Investments Robert Johnston 29 May 18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 
18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 18 Renold Ian Scapens 29 May 18 
2,871 692.67 19,887 18,399 4,293 698.81 30,000 22,692 60,000 2,001.85 1,201,110 189,477 8,100 2,725 220,725 
8,100 40,000 130.367 52,147 190,000 10,000 52.5 5,250 82,000 15,000 58 8,700 97,000 2,757 256.2 7,063 13,977 
92,452 547.53 506,202 416,480 83,333 12 10,000 226,099 14,224 288.913 41,095 14,224 12,350 115.1 14,215 
1,278,298 15,000 1,077 161,550 776,416 6,500 1,120 72,800 7,000 35,000 1,160 406,000 761,416 25,000 100 
25,000 25,000 49,996 100 49,996 49,996 35,000 100 35,000 35,000 4,337 1,250 54,213 27,200 800 1,252 10,016 
38,000 505,050 198 999,999 505,050 20,000 1,309.19 261,838 20,000 10,000 1,118 111,800 10,000 56,750 131.5 
74,626 56,750 230,000 132.7 305,210 285,535 31,550 31.5 9,938 31,550 10,500 280 29,400 20,500 6,000 210 
12,600 15,000 10,000 149 14,900 40,000 7,838 76.02 5,958 170,073 11,765 76.02 8,944 181,838 7,838 76.02 
5,958 189,676 10,456 76.02 7,949 200,132 189,580 26.374 50,000 189,580 Saga Patrick O'Sullivan 25 May 18 
Standard Life Aberdeen Gerhard Fusenig 30 May 18 Stilo International David Ashman (ch) 29 May 18 Stride 
Gaming Ronen Kannor 30 May 18 Taylor Wimpey Angela Knight 30 May 18 Thor Mining Paul Johnson 25 May 18 
Thor Mining Paul Johnson 24 May 18 Thor Mining Paul Johnson 24 May 18 Value and Income Trust Dominic Neary 
30 May 18 100,000 128.1 128,100 100,000 40,000 350 140,000 66,495 475,000 3.7 17,575 14,187,000 39,273 155 
60,873 39,273 5,000 200.571 10,029 10,000 250,000 2.2 5,500 33,250,000 150,000 2.31 3,465 32,900,000 
100,000 2.32 2,320 33,000,000 250,000 2.375 5,938 32,750,000 7,376 269.5 19,878 7,376 SELL Associated 
British Foods John Bason (fd) 29 May 18 Avon Rubber David Evans (ch) 30 May 18 30,000 2,703 810,900 125,290 
5,000 1,405 70,250 25,000 24,000 940 225,600 1,010,835 16,578 3,264.12 541,126 75,371 8,894 3,264.12 
290,311 66,477 44,471 552.78 245,827 341,701 100,000 886.8 886,800 377,908 47,000 897.9 422,013 144,788 
300,000 191.7 575,100 12,662,000 2,000,000 1,445 28,900,000 44,096,725 106,637 575 613,163 934,422 50,000 
300.5 150,250 8,423,834 Churchill China James Roper 24 May 18 Cranswick? James Brisby 24 May 18 
Cranswick? James Brisby 24 May 18 Hammerson Jean-Philippe Mouton 30 May 18 Homeserve Tom Rusin 25 May 
18 Homeserve Johnathan Ford 24 May 18 LondonMetric Property Patrick Vaughan (ch) 30 May 18 Ryanair Michael 
O'Leary (ceo) 30 May 18 Sophos Stephen Munford 24 May 18 Tristel? Francisco Soler 30 May 18 * 
Placing/tender/open offer ? Spouse/connected party Source: Morningstar/Investors Chronicle
Load-Date: June 9, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair 's O'Leary sells 2m shares
Ryanair's O'Leary sells 2m shares
Financial Times (London, England)
June 9, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: MONEY;NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 857 words
Body
Budget airline Ryanair is "on the pessimistic side of cautious" when it comes to the current financial year. Sales are 
expected to increase, but at a slower rate than costs.
Granted, Ryanair's low ticket prices helped boost passenger numbers to more than 130m with an "industryleading" 
load factor of 95 per cent.
A significant issue causing turbulence at Ryanair is what it plans to do in the absence of a Brexit aviation deal. If an 
agreement is not struck before September, then summer 2019 scheduling could be affected.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary appears less than optimistic: he sold 2m shares at (EURO)16.49 each, leaving the 
airline boss with about 44.1m shares or a 3.8 per cent stake.
Homeserve shares have performed well in recent months, jumping from about 720p in early April to close to 900p in 
early June. The question is, why is management selling shares as they seem to be taking off? Johnathan Ford, the 
group's chief operating officer, sold roughly a quarter of his stake, while global chief executive of the membership 
business, TomRusin, sold a fifth of his. Julia Faurschou and Tom Dines, Investors ChronicleNo. of shares Price (p) 
Value (£) Holding Director Date (shares) BUY Barr (AG) Stuart Lorimer (fd) 29 May 18 Barr (AG) Stuart Lorimer (fd) 
29 May 18 ? Burberry Marco Gobbetti (ceo) 29 May 18 Caledonia Investments Guy Davison 30 May 18 Centamin 
Mark Bankes 29 May 18 ClearStar André Schnabl 24 May 18 ClearStar André Schnabl 25 May 18 Dunedin Income 
Growth Inv Trust David Barron (ch) 30 May 18 Dunelm Andy Harrison (ch) 25 May 18 Echo Energy* Fiona Barkham 
(ceo) 25 May 18 Entertainment One Robert McFarlane 25 May 18 FirstGroup Tim O'Toole (ceo) 25 May 18 Georgia 
Capital Irakli Gilauri (ch & ceo) 30 May 18 Georgia Capital? William Huyett 30 May 18 Georgia Capital Irakli Gilauri 
Ryanair 's O'Leary sells 2m shares
(ch & ceo) 29 May 18 Gore Street Energy Storage Fund Malcolm King 25 May 18 Gore Street Energy Storage Fund 
Patrick Cox 25 May 18 Gore Street Energy Storage Fund Caroline Banszky 25 May 18 Harbourvest Global Priv 
Equity Michael Bunbury (ch) 24 May 18 Harbourvest Global Priv Equity? Michael Bunbury (ch) 25 May 18 Hardide 
Charles Irving-Swift 30 May 18 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Sigurdur Olafsson 30 May 18 Intermediate Capital Andrew 
Sykes 30 May 18 ITE Richard Last 24 May 18 ITE Mark Shashoua (ceo) 24 May 18 IXICO Giulio Cerroni 29 May 
18 McKay Securities Jonathan Austen 25 May 18 Nexus Infrastructure Alexander Wiseman 30 May 18 Produce 
Investments Robert Johnston 29 May 18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 
18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 18 Renold Ian Scapens 29 May 18 
2,871 692.67 19,887 18,399 4,293 698.81 30,000 22,692 60,000 2,001.85 1,201,110 189,477 8,100 2,725 220,725 
8,100 40,000 130.367 52,147 190,000 10,000 52.5 5,250 82,000 15,000 58 8,700 97,000 2,757 256.2 7,063 13,977 
92,452 547.53 506,202 416,480 83,333 12 10,000 226,099 14,224 288.913 41,095 14,224 12,350 115.1 14,215 
1,278,298 15,000 1,077 161,550 776,416 6,500 1,120 72,800 7,000 35,000 1,160 406,000 761,416 25,000 100 
25,000 25,000 49,996 100 49,996 49,996 35,000 100 35,000 35,000 4,337 1,250 54,213 27,200 800 1,252 10,016 
38,000 505,050 198 999,999 505,050 20,000 1,309.19 261,838 20,000 10,000 1,118 111,800 10,000 56,750 131.5 
74,626 56,750 230,000 132.7 305,210 285,535 31,550 31.5 9,938 31,550 10,500 280 29,400 20,500 6,000 210 
12,600 15,000 10,000 149 14,900 40,000 7,838 76.02 5,958 170,073 11,765 76.02 8,944 181,838 7,838 76.02 
5,958 189,676 10,456 76.02 7,949 200,132 189,580 26.374 50,000 189,580 Saga Patrick O'Sullivan 25 May 18 
Standard Life Aberdeen Gerhard Fusenig 30 May 18 Stilo International David Ashman (ch) 29 May 18 Stride 
Gaming Ronen Kannor 30 May 18 Taylor Wimpey Angela Knight 30 May 18 Thor Mining Paul Johnson 25 May 18 
Thor Mining Paul Johnson 24 May 18 Thor Mining Paul Johnson 24 May 18 Value and Income Trust Dominic Neary 
30 May 18 100,000 128.1 128,100 100,000 40,000 350 140,000 66,495 475,000 3.7 17,575 14,187,000 39,273 155 
60,873 39,273 5,000 200.571 10,029 10,000 250,000 2.2 5,500 33,250,000 150,000 2.31 3,465 32,900,000 
100,000 2.32 2,320 33,000,000 250,000 2.375 5,938 32,750,000 7,376 269.5 19,878 7,376 SELL Associated 
British Foods John Bason (fd) 29 May 18 Avon Rubber David Evans (ch) 30 May 18 30,000 2,703 810,900 125,290 
5,000 1,405 70,250 25,000 24,000 940 225,600 1,010,835 16,578 3,264.12 541,126 75,371 8,894 3,264.12 
290,311 66,477 44,471 552.78 245,827 341,701 100,000 886.8 886,800 377,908 47,000 897.9 422,013 144,788 
300,000 191.7 575,100 12,662,000 2,000,000 1,445 28,900,000 44,096,725 106,637 575 613,163 934,422 50,000 
300.5 150,250 8,423,834 Churchill China James Roper 24 May 18 Cranswick? James Brisby 24 May 18 
Cranswick? James Brisby 24 May 18 Hammerson Jean-Philippe Mouton 30 May 18 Homeserve Tom Rusin 25 May 
18 Homeserve Johnathan Ford 24 May 18 LondonMetric Property Patrick Vaughan (ch) 30 May 18 Ryanair Michael 
O'Leary (ceo) 30 May 18 Sophos Stephen Munford 24 May 18 Tristel? Francisco Soler 30 May 18 * 
Placing/tender/open offer ? Spouse/connected party Source: Morningstar/Investors Chronicle
Load-Date: June 8, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair's O'Leary sells 2m shares
Ryanair's O'Leary sells 2m shares
Financial Times (London, England)
June 9, 2018 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: MONEY;NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 857 words
Body
Budget airline Ryanair is "on the pessimistic side of cautious" when it comes to the current financial year. Sales are 
expected to increase, but at a slower rate than costs.
Granted, Ryanair's low ticket prices helped boost passenger numbers to more than 130m with an "industryleading" 
load factor of 95 per cent.
A significant issue causing turbulence at Ryanair is what it plans to do in the absence of a Brexit aviation deal. If an 
agreement is not struck before September, then summer 2019 scheduling could be affected.
Chief executive Michael O'Leary appears less than optimistic: he sold 2m shares at (EURO)16.49 each, leaving the 
airline boss with about 44.1m shares or a 3.8 per cent stake.
Homeserve shares have performed well in recent months, jumping from about 720p in early April to close to 900p in 
early June. The question is, why is management selling shares as they seem to be taking off? Johnathan Ford, the 
group's chief operating officer, sold roughly a quarter of his stake, while global chief executive of the membership 
business, TomRusin, sold a fifth of his. Julia Faurschou and Tom Dines, Investors ChronicleNo. of shares Price (p) 
Value (£) Holding Director Date (shares) BUY Barr (AG) Stuart Lorimer (fd) 29 May 18 Barr (AG) Stuart Lorimer (fd) 
29 May 18 ? Burberry Marco Gobbetti (ceo) 29 May 18 Caledonia Investments Guy Davison 30 May 18 Centamin 
Mark Bankes 29 May 18 ClearStar André Schnabl 24 May 18 ClearStar André Schnabl 25 May 18 Dunedin Income 
Growth Inv Trust David Barron (ch) 30 May 18 Dunelm Andy Harrison (ch) 25 May 18 Echo Energy* Fiona Barkham 
(ceo) 25 May 18 Entertainment One Robert McFarlane 25 May 18 FirstGroup Tim O'Toole (ceo) 25 May 18 Georgia 
Capital Irakli Gilauri (ch & ceo) 30 May 18 Georgia Capital? William Huyett 30 May 18 Georgia Capital Irakli Gilauri 
Ryanair's O'Leary sells 2m shares
(ch & ceo) 29 May 18 Gore Street Energy Storage Fund Malcolm King 25 May 18 Gore Street Energy Storage Fund 
Patrick Cox 25 May 18 Gore Street Energy Storage Fund Caroline Banszky 25 May 18 Harbourvest Global Priv 
Equity Michael Bunbury (ch) 24 May 18 Harbourvest Global Priv Equity? Michael Bunbury (ch) 25 May 18 Hardide 
Charles Irving-Swift 30 May 18 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Sigurdur Olafsson 30 May 18 Intermediate Capital Andrew 
Sykes 30 May 18 ITE Richard Last 24 May 18 ITE Mark Shashoua (ceo) 24 May 18 IXICO Giulio Cerroni 29 May 
18 McKay Securities Jonathan Austen 25 May 18 Nexus Infrastructure Alexander Wiseman 30 May 18 Produce 
Investments Robert Johnston 29 May 18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 
18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 18 Renewi Toby Woolrych (fd) 24 May 18 Renold Ian Scapens 29 May 18 
2,871 692.67 19,887 18,399 4,293 698.81 30,000 22,692 60,000 2,001.85 1,201,110 189,477 8,100 2,725 220,725 
8,100 40,000 130.367 52,147 190,000 10,000 52.5 5,250 82,000 15,000 58 8,700 97,000 2,757 256.2 7,063 13,977 
92,452 547.53 506,202 416,480 83,333 12 10,000 226,099 14,224 288.913 41,095 14,224 12,350 115.1 14,215 
1,278,298 15,000 1,077 161,550 776,416 6,500 1,120 72,800 7,000 35,000 1,160 406,000 761,416 25,000 100 
25,000 25,000 49,996 100 49,996 49,996 35,000 100 35,000 35,000 4,337 1,250 54,213 27,200 800 1,252 10,016 
38,000 505,050 198 999,999 505,050 20,000 1,309.19 261,838 20,000 10,000 1,118 111,800 10,000 56,750 131.5 
74,626 56,750 230,000 132.7 305,210 285,535 31,550 31.5 9,938 31,550 10,500 280 29,400 20,500 6,000 210 
12,600 15,000 10,000 149 14,900 40,000 7,838 76.02 5,958 170,073 11,765 76.02 8,944 181,838 7,838 76.02 
5,958 189,676 10,456 76.02 7,949 200,132 189,580 26.374 50,000 189,580 Saga Patrick O'Sullivan 25 May 18 
Standard Life Aberdeen Gerhard Fusenig 30 May 18 Stilo International David Ashman (ch) 29 May 18 Stride 
Gaming Ronen Kannor 30 May 18 Taylor Wimpey Angela Knight 30 May 18 Thor Mining Paul Johnson 25 May 18 
Thor Mining Paul Johnson 24 May 18 Thor Mining Paul Johnson 24 May 18 Value and Income Trust Dominic Neary 
30 May 18 100,000 128.1 128,100 100,000 40,000 350 140,000 66,495 475,000 3.7 17,575 14,187,000 39,273 155 
60,873 39,273 5,000 200.571 10,029 10,000 250,000 2.2 5,500 33,250,000 150,000 2.31 3,465 32,900,000 
100,000 2.32 2,320 33,000,000 250,000 2.375 5,938 32,750,000 7,376 269.5 19,878 7,376 SELL Associated 
British Foods John Bason (fd) 29 May 18 Avon Rubber David Evans (ch) 30 May 18 30,000 2,703 810,900 125,290 
5,000 1,405 70,250 25,000 24,000 940 225,600 1,010,835 16,578 3,264.12 541,126 75,371 8,894 3,264.12 
290,311 66,477 44,471 552.78 245,827 341,701 100,000 886.8 886,800 377,908 47,000 897.9 422,013 144,788 
300,000 191.7 575,100 12,662,000 2,000,000 1,445 28,900,000 44,096,725 106,637 575 613,163 934,422 50,000 
300.5 150,250 8,423,834 Churchill China James Roper 24 May 18 Cranswick? James Brisby 24 May 18 
Cranswick? James Brisby 24 May 18 Hammerson Jean-Philippe Mouton 30 May 18 Homeserve Tom Rusin 25 May 
18 Homeserve Johnathan Ford 24 May 18 LondonMetric Property Patrick Vaughan (ch) 30 May 18 Ryanair Michael 
O'Leary (ceo) 30 May 18 Sophos Stephen Munford 24 May 18 Tristel? Francisco Soler 30 May 18 * 
Placing/tender/open offer ? Spouse/connected party Source: Morningstar/Investors Chronicle
Load-Date: June 9, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to 'Hold' at Deutsche Bank
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to 'Hold' at Deutsche Bank
DailyPolitical
June 9, 2018 Saturday 10:40 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 600 words
Body
Jun 09, 2018( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was 
downgraded by equities research analysts at Deutsche Bank from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research 
report issued on Thursday.Several other research firms have also commented on RYAAY. Zacks Investment 
Research[1] raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target for the company in a 
research report on Thursday, March 29th. BidaskClub lowered Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating 
in a research report on Monday, May 14th. 
Finally, ValuEngine[2] lowered Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Wednesday, 
May 9th. Three equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have issued a hold rating and 
four have assigned a buy rating to the stock. Ryanair currently has an average rating of "Hold" and a consensus 
price target of $110.00.Shares of Ryanair opened at $116.99 on Thursday, according to MarketBeat Ratings[3]. The 
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23. The firm has a market 
cap of $28.29 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.59, a PEG ratio of 2.84 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair has a twelve 
month low of $101.10 and a twelve month high of $127.61. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its earnings 
results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, 
beating the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the 
quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin 
of 20.13%. research analysts expect that Ryanair will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year. A 
number of large investors have recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. US Bancorp DE increased its 
position in Ryanair by 168.2% during the 4th quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $122,000 after buying an additional 735 shares in the last quarter. Assetmark Inc. 
increased its position in Ryanair by 64.0% during the 4th quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $138,000 after buying an additional 516 shares in the last quarter. Tower 
Research Capital LLC TRC acquired a new position in Ryanair during the 4th quarter valued at about $148,000. 
Elkfork Partners LLC acquired a new position in Ryanair during the 4th quarter valued at about $166,000. Finally, 
Glenmede Trust Co. NA grew its stake in Ryanair by 2,506.9% during the 4th quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now 
owns 1,877 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $195,000 after purchasing an additional 1,805 
shares during the last quarter. 43.72% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors. About 
RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such 
as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel 
insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. [ 1]: 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to 'Hold' at Deutsche Bank
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
Load-Date: June 9, 2018
End of Document
European ADRs Move Lower in Friday Trading
European ADRs Move Lower in Friday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
June 8, 2018 Friday 11:55 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 229 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were trading 0.30% lower at 137.99 on the Bank of New York 
Mellon Europe ADR Index on Friday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by medical equipment maker Edap (EDAP), which soared 61.3%, 
followed by Oasmia Pharmaceutical (OASM), biopharmaceutical company Biofrontera (BFRA), and biotech 
company argenx (ARGX), which rose 4.8%, 3.0%, and 1.9% respectively. 
The decliners in continental Europe were led by communications services provider VEON (VEON), and oil and gas 
company Eni (E), which fell 2.6% and 2.4% respectively. They were followed by telecommunications provider 
Telefonica (TEF), and healthcare company Novo Nordisk (NVO), which lost 1.9% each.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by biopharmaceutical firm Midatech Pharma (MTP), which surged 
15.6%, followed by fellow biopharmaceutical company Verona Pharma (VRNA), Trinity Biotech (TRIB), and 
alcoholic beverage company Diageo (DEO), which rose 3.4%, 2.2%, and 1.1% respectively.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by biopharmaceutical firm NuCana (NCNA), and mining company 
Randgold Resources (GOLD), which lost 1.8% and 1.7% respectively. They were followed by airline operator 
Ryanair (RYAAY), and biopharmaceutical company Adaptimmune Therapeutics (ADAP), which dropped 1.5% and 
0.4%.
Price: 3.92, Change: +1.71, Percent Change: +77.38
Load-Date: June 9, 2018
End of Document
Caisse DE Depot ET Placement DU Quebec Has $6.47 Million Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Caisse DE Depot ET Placement DU Quebec Has $6.47 Million Position in 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
June 8, 2018 Friday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 676 words
Body
Ryanair logo Caisse DE Depot ET Placement DU Quebec cut its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 9.0% in the 1st quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission. The firm owned 52,637 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 
5,200 shares during the period. Caisse DE Depot ET Placement DU Quebec's holdings in Ryanair were worth 
$6,466,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
Other institutional investors and hedge funds have also added to or reduced their stakes in the company. WCM 
Investment Management CA bought a new position in  Ryanair in the 4th quarter valued at $368,207,000.  
Renaissance Technologies LLC boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 28.6% in the 4th quarter. Renaissance 
Technologies LLC now owns 3,473,819 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $361,937,000 after 
purchasing an additional 772,300 shares during the period.  Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA boosted its 
holdings in  Ryanair by 53.3% in the 1st quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,217,338 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $272,400,000 after purchasing an additional 770,774 shares 
during the period.  Thornburg Investment Management Inc. boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 20.4% in the 1st 
quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $242,499,000 after purchasing an additional 334,623 shares during the period.  Finally, Lazard Asset 
Management LLC boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 12.6% in the 4th quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now 
owns 2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $302,744,000 after purchasing an 
additional 325,932 shares during the period. 43.72% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
Ryanair opened at $117.91 on Friday, according to MarketBeat Ratings . Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low 
of $101.10 and a 52-week high of $127.61. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a current ratio of 1.23 and a 
debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. The firm has a market cap of $27.98 billion, a PE ratio of 16.72, a P/E/G ratio of 2.81 
and a beta of 0.64.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 
by $0.05. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. The company had revenue of 
$1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion.  equities analysts expect that  
Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 EPS for the current year.  
Caisse DE Depot ET Placement DU Quebec Has $6.47 Million Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Several research analysts have commented on RYAAY shares. BidaskClub raised shares of Ryanair from a "buy" 
rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a report on Wednesday, February 21st. Zacks Investment Research  raised shares 
of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target for the company in a report on 
Thursday, March 29th.            ValuEngine  downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a 
report on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank  reissued a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on 
Tuesday, May 22nd. Three research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have assigned  a hold 
rating and four have assigned  a buy rating to the company. Ryanair  has an average rating of "Hold" and an 
average target price of $110.00. 
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 8, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Allianz Asset Management GmbH
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Allianz Asset Management 
GmbH
American Banking and Market News
June 8, 2018 Friday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 655 words
Body
Ryanair logo Allianz Asset Management GmbH decreased its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 0.3% during the 1st quarter, according to its most recent Form 13F filing with the SEC. The 
fund owned 709,302 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 2,013 shares during the period. 
Allianz Asset Management GmbH owned about 0.30% of Ryanair worth $87,138,000 as of its most recent filing with 
the SEC.  
Several other hedge funds also recently modified their holdings of the company. Comerica Bank lifted its holdings in  
Ryanair by 6.5% in the fourth quarter. Comerica Bank now owns 14,708 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $1,797,000 after acquiring an additional 894 shares during the last quarter.  US Bancorp DE lifted its 
holdings in  Ryanair by 168.2% in the fourth quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $122,000 after acquiring an additional 735 shares during the last quarter.  American Century 
Companies Inc. lifted its holdings in  Ryanair by 8.5% in the fourth quarter. American Century Companies Inc. now 
owns 1,117,286 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $116,410,000 after acquiring an additional 
87,170 shares during the last quarter.  First Mercantile Trust Co. bought a new position in  Ryanair in the fourth 
quarter worth about $459,000.  Finally, ING Groep NV bought a new position in  Ryanair in the fourth quarter worth 
about $729,000. 43.72% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Shares of NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $117.91 on Friday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $101.10 and 
a 52 week high of $127.61. The company has a market capitalization of $27.98 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 
16.72, a PEG ratio of 2.81 and a beta of 0.64. The company has a current ratio of 1.23, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a 
debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, beating the consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a net 
margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, 
compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion.  sell-side analysts predict that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post 7.08 
EPS for the current year.  
Several equities research analysts have commented on the stock. Zacks Investment Research  upgraded shares of 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target on the stock in a research note on 
Thursday, March 29th. BidaskClub lowered shares of Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a 
research note on Thursday, March 1st.            ValuEngine  lowered shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Allianz Asset Management GmbH
rating in a research note on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank  restated a "buy" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. Three investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell 
rating, six have given a hold rating and four have given a buy rating to the company. The company presently has an 
average rating of "Hold" and an average target price of $110.00. 
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 8, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Downgraded to 'Neutral' at Exane BNP Paribas
Ryanair (RYAAY) Downgraded to 'Neutral' at Exane BNP Paribas
Transcript Daily
June 8, 2018 Friday 4:26 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 744 words
Body
Jun 
08, 
2018( 
Transcript 
Daily: 
https://transcriptdaily.com 
Delivered 
by 
Newstex) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgExane BNP Paribas lowered shares of Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) from an outperform rating to a neutral rating in a report issued on Thursday, The Fly[1] 
reports.Other equities research analysts have also recently issued reports about the stock. BNP Paribas cut shares 
of Ryanair from an outperform rating to a neutral rating in a research report on Thursday. 
Deutsche Bank cut shares of Ryanair from a buy rating to a hold rating in a research report on Thursday. 
BidaskClub cut shares of Ryanair from a strong-buy rating to a buy rating in a research report on Friday, June 1st. 
ValuEngine[2] cut shares of Ryanair from a buy rating to a hold rating in a research report on Wednesday, May 9th. 
Finally, Zacks Investment Research[3] cut shares of Ryanair from a buy rating to a sell rating in a research report 
on Friday, April 20th. Three research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have assigned a hold 
rating and four have assigned a buy rating to the company. Ryanair has a consensus rating of Hold and a 
consensus price target of $110.00.RYAAY[4] traded down $1.81 during trading on Thursday, hitting $116.10. 6,523 
shares of the stock traded hands, compared to its average volume of 302,228. The stock has a market 
capitalization of $28.29 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.51, a PEG ratio of 2.84 and a beta of 0.64. The company has a 
quick ratio of 1.23, a current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. Ryanair has a 12-month low of $101.10 
and a 12-month high of $127.61. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings results on 
Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, beating the 
Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the 
quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on 
equity of 31.73%. sell-side analysts expect that Ryanair will post 7.08 EPS for the current fiscal year. Several 
institutional investors have recently modified their holdings of the stock. WCM Investment Management CA 
increased its stake in shares of Ryanair by 5.2% in the 1st quarter. WCM Investment Management CA now owns 
3,719,251 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $456,910,000 after acquiring an additional 185,253 
shares in the last quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC increased its stake in shares of Ryanair by 28.6% in the 
4th quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC now owns 3,473,819 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $361,937,000 after acquiring an additional 772,300 shares in the last quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
increased its stake in shares of Ryanair by 12.6% in the 4th quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 
2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $302,744,000 after acquiring an additional 325,932 
shares in the last quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA increased its stake in shares of Ryanair by 
53.3% in the 1st quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,217,338 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $272,400,000 after acquiring an additional 770,774 shares in the last quarter. 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Downgraded to 'Neutral' at Exane BNP Paribas
Finally, Royal Bank of Canada increased its stake in shares of Ryanair by 9.6% in the 1st quarter. Royal Bank of 
Canada now owns 2,018,166 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $247,932,000 after acquiring an 
additional 176,959 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors own 43.72% of the company's stock. Ryanair 
Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services 
in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, 
such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and 
travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and 
merchandise.http://www.thefly.com [ 1]:            http://www.thefly.com/ [ 2]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
Load-Date: June 8, 2018
End of Document
European Markets Finish Mixed After Giving Back Early Gains
European Markets Finish Mixed After Giving Back Early Gains
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
June 7, 2018 Thursday 12:10 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 455 words
Body
 Markets in Europe got off to a positive start Thursday, but quickly gave back their early gains before settling into a 
sideways pattern. The markets ended the session with mixed results, but remained little changed overall.
Bank stocks performed well on reports that the European Central Bank will discuss winding down their bond-buying 
program when it meets next week.
The opening of the London Stock Exchange was delayed by an hour Thursday due to a technical glitch.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index weakened by 0.16%. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip 
stocks decreased 0.03%, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major UK companies, lost 0.14%.
The DAX of Germany dropped 0.15% and the CAC of France fell 0.17%. The FTSE 100 of the UK declined 0.10%, 
but the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 0.04%.
In London, J Sainsbury decreased 0.78% after going ex-dividend.
Ryanair fell 2.30% after Deutsche Bank downgraded its rating on the stock to "Hold" from "Buy."
Drug-maker Lundbeck dropped 0.98% in Copenhagen after it agreed to settle a US probe into its financial support 
of patient assistance charitable foundations.
The euro area economy expanded as initially estimated in the first quarter, the latest estimate from Eurostat 
showed Thursday. Gross domestic product grew 0.4% sequentially in the first quarter, slower than the 0.7% 
expansion seen a quarter ago. The rate came in line with the estimate released on May 15.
Germany's factory orders declined unexpectedly in April on weak domestic demand, figures from Destatis revealed 
Thursday.
Factory orders slid 2.5% month-on-month in April, bigger than the revised 1.1% decrease seen in March and 
confounded expectations for an increase of 0.8%. This was the fourth consecutive decline in orders.
European Markets Finish Mixed After Giving Back Early Gains
France's trade deficit remained stable in April, as the increase in exports was offset by that of imports, figures from 
the Customs Office showed Thursday. The trade deficit came at EUR 5.0 billion in April, unchanged from March. 
The expected shortfall was EUR 5.1 billion.
UK house prices rebounded at a faster than expected pace in May, data from the Lloyds bank subsidiary Halifax 
and IHS Markit showed Thursday. House prices grew 1.5% month-on-month, reversing a 3.1% fall in April. Prices 
were forecast to rise 1% in May.
First-time claims for US unemployment benefits saw a modest decrease in the week ended June 2nd, according to 
a report released by the Labor Department on Thursday. The Labor Department said initial jobless claims edged 
down to 222,000, a decrease of 1,000 from the previous week's revised level of 223,000.
Economists had expected jobless claims to rise to 225,000 from the 221,000 originally reported for the previous 
week.
Load-Date: June 8, 2018
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Thursday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Thursday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
June 7, 2018 Thursday 12:21 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 223 words
Body
 American depositary receipts of European stocks were trading 0.18% higher at 139.12 on the Bank of New York 
Mellon Europe ADR Index on Thursday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by marketing company Criteo (CRTO), and biotech firm ERYTECH 
Pharma (ERYP), which climbed 3.3% and 3.9% respectively. They were followed by biotech company argenx 
(ARGX), and insurance firm Aegon (AEG), which rose 2.3% and 1.3%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by biopharmaceutical company Ascendis Pharma (ASND), and 
software firm Talend (TLND), which fell 3.8% and 3.3%. They were followed by furniture maker Natuzzi (NTZ), and 
genome engineering company company Cellectis (CLLS), which lost 3.0% and 2.3%.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by biotech firm Motif Bio (MTFB), and oil company BP (BP), which rose 
10.2% and 2.6% respectively. They were followed by biopharmaceutical company Akari Therapeutics (AKTX), and 
biotech firm Shire (SHPG), which were up 0.8% each.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by biopharmaceutical firm NuCana (NCNA), and pharmaceutical 
company Midatech Pharma (MTP), which dropped 4.5% and 1.6% respectively. They were followed by 
biopharmaceutical firm Verona Pharma (VRNA), and airline operator Ryanair (RYAAY), which dropped 2.2% and 
2.2%.
Price: 27.91, Change: +0.89, Percent Change: +3.29
Load-Date: June 8, 2018
End of Document
European Markets Finished Mixed After Paring Early Gains
European Markets Finished Mixed After Paring Early Gains
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
June 7, 2018 Thursday 6:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 506 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - Markets in Europe got off to a positive start Thursday, but 
quickly gave back their early gains before settling into a sideways pattern. The markets ended the session with 
mixed results, but remained little changed overall.  Bank stocks performed well on reports that the European 
Central Bank will discuss winding down their bond-buying program when it meets next week. 
 The opening of the London Stock Exchange was delayed by an hour Thursday due to a technical glitch.  The pan-
European Stoxx Europe 600 index weakened by 0.16 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip 
stocks decreased 0.03 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major U.K. companies, lost 
0.14 percent.  The DAX of Germany dropped 0.15 percent and the CAC of France fell 0.17 percent. The FTSE 100 
of the U.K. declined 0.10 percent, but the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 0.04 percent.  In Paris, R\xE9my 
Cointreau sank 4.78 percent after posting disappointing annual results.  In London, J Sainsbury decreased 0.78 
percent after going ex-dividend.  Ryanair fell 2.30 percent after Deutsche Bank downgraded its rating on the stock 
to 'Hold' from 'Buy.'  Drug-maker Lundbeck dropped 0.98 percent in Copenhagen after it agreed to settle a U.S. 
probe into its financial support of patient assistance charitable foundations.  The euro area economy expanded as 
initially estimated in the first quarter, the latest estimate from Eurostat showed Thursday. Gross domestic product 
grew 0.4 percent sequentially in the first quarter, slower than the 0.7 percent expansion seen a quarter ago. The 
rate came in line with the estimate released on May 15.   Germany's factory orders declined unexpectedly in April 
on weak domestic demand, figures from Destatis revealed Thursday.  Factory orders slid 2.5 percent month-on-
month in April, bigger than the revised 1.1 percent decrease seen in March and confounded expectations for an 
increase of 0.8 percent. This was the fourth consecutive decline in orders.  France's trade deficit remained stable in 
April, as the increase in exports was offset by that of imports, figures from the Customs Office showed Thursday. 
The trade deficit came at EUR 5.0 billion in April, unchanged from March. The expected shortfall was EUR 5.1 
billion.  UK house prices rebounded at a faster than expected pace in May, data from the Lloyds bank subsidiary 
Halifax and IHS Markit showed Thursday. House prices grew 1.5 percent month-on-month, reversing a 3.1 percent 
fall in April. Prices were forecast to rise 1 percent in May.  First-time claims for U.S. unemployment benefits saw a 
modest decrease in the week ended June 2nd, according to a report released by the Labor Department on 
Thursday. The Labor Department said initial jobless claims edged down to 222,000, a decrease of 1,000 from the 
European Markets Finished Mixed After Paring Early Gains
previous week's revised level of 223,000.  Economists had expected jobless claims to rise to 225,000 from the 
221,000 originally reported for the previous week.      
Load-Date: June 7, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to "Hold" at Deutsche Bank
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to "Hold" at Deutsche Bank
American Banking and Market News
June 7, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 595 words
Body
Ryanair logo Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by equities research analysts at Deutsche Bank to a 
"hold" rating in a report issued on Thursday. 
Several other equities analysts have also issued reports on RYAAY. Zacks Investment Research  raised shares of 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price objective on the stock in a report on Thursday, 
March 29th. BidaskClub lowered shares of Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on 
Thursday, March 1st. Finally,            ValuEngine  lowered shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in 
a report on Wednesday, May 9th. Three research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, four have given a 
hold rating and four have assigned  a buy rating to the stock. The stock currently has a consensus rating of "Hold" 
and an average price target of $110.00. 
Ryanair opened at $120.78 on Thursday, MarketBeat Ratings  reports. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a 
current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. Ryanair has a fifty-two week low of $101.10 and a fifty-two 
week high of $127.61. The company has a market cap of $27.98 billion, a PE ratio of 17.13, a P/E/G ratio of 2.81 
and a beta of 0.64.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, beating the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of 
$0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. The firm had revenue of 
$1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion.  sell-side analysts predict that  
Ryanair will post 7.08 EPS for the current year.  
Several large investors have recently bought and sold shares of the company. CIBC World Markets Inc. acquired a 
new position in shares of  Ryanair in the first quarter worth about $350,000.  Royal Bank of Canada raised its 
position in shares of  Ryanair by 9.6% in the first quarter. Royal Bank of Canada now owns 2,018,166 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $247,932,000 after acquiring an additional 176,959 shares during the period.  
Legal & General Group Plc raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 2.9% in the first quarter. Legal & General 
Group Plc now owns 73,914 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $9,078,000 after acquiring an 
additional 2,100 shares during the period.  Teewinot Capital Advisers L.L.C. raised its position in shares of  Ryanair 
by 8.2% in the first quarter. Teewinot Capital Advisers L.L.C. now owns 194,170 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $23,854,000 after acquiring an additional 14,700 shares during the period.  Finally, LPL 
Financial LLC raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 56.0% in the first quarter. LPL Financial LLC now owns 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Lowered to "Hold" at Deutsche Bank
6,586 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $809,000 after acquiring an additional 2,365 shares 
during the period. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.72% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Analyst Recommendations for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 7, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Downgraded by BNP Paribas
Ryanair (RYAAY) Downgraded by BNP Paribas
American Banking and Market News
June 7, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 669 words
Body
Ryanair logo Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by equities researchers at BNP Paribas from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note issued to investors on Thursday. 
RYAAY has been the subject of several other research reports. BidaskClub upgraded shares of Ryanair from a 
"buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a research note on Friday, May 25th. Zacks Investment Research  raised 
shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $138.00 price target for the company in a report on 
Wednesday, April 11th.            ValuEngine  cut shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on 
Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank  reissued a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, 
May 22nd. Three investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, five have assigned  a hold rating and 
four have issued  a buy rating to the company. The company presently has an average rating of "Hold" and an 
average price target of $110.00. 
NASDAQ RYAAY  traded down $2.56 during trading hours on Thursday, hitting $118.22. The company had a 
trading volume of 5,220 shares, compared to its average volume of 308,892. The company has a debt-to-equity 
ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23. Ryanair has a 1-year low of $101.10 and a 1-year high 
of $127.61. The company has a market capitalization of $27.98 billion, a PE ratio of 16.73, a P/E/G ratio of 2.81 and 
a beta of 0.64.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, beating the consensus estimate of $0.25 by 
$0.05. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. The company had revenue of $1.62 
billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion.  research analysts expect that  
Ryanair will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current year.  
A number of institutional investors have recently modified their holdings of the business. WCM Investment 
Management CA increased its holdings in  Ryanair by 5.2% in the first quarter. WCM Investment Management CA 
now owns 3,719,251 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $456,910,000 after buying an 
additional 185,253 shares in the last quarter.  Renaissance Technologies LLC increased its holdings in  Ryanair by 
28.6% in the fourth quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC now owns 3,473,819 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $361,937,000 after buying an additional 772,300 shares in the last quarter.  Lazard 
Asset Management LLC increased its holdings in  Ryanair by 12.6% in the fourth quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $302,744,000 after 
buying an additional 325,932 shares in the last quarter.  Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA increased its 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Downgraded by BNP Paribas
holdings in  Ryanair by 53.3% in the first quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA now owns 2,217,338 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $272,400,000 after buying an additional 770,774 shares in 
the last quarter.  Finally, Royal Bank of Canada increased its holdings in  Ryanair by 9.6% in the first quarter. Royal 
Bank of Canada now owns 2,018,166 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $247,932,000 after 
buying an additional 176,959 shares in the last quarter. 43.72% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Analyst Recommendations for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 7, 2018
End of Document
Exane BNP Paribas Lowers Ryanair (RYAAY) to Neutral
Exane BNP Paribas Lowers Ryanair (RYAAY) to Neutral
American Banking and Market News
June 7, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 631 words
Body
Ryanair logo Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by stock analysts at Exane BNP Paribas from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a note issued to investors on Thursday,            The Fly  reports. 
Other analysts have also issued research reports about the stock. Deutsche Bank lowered shares of Ryanair from a 
"buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Thursday. BNP Paribas lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Thursday. Zacks Investment Research  lowered shares of Ryanair from a 
"buy" rating to a "sell" rating in a report on Friday, April 20th. BidaskClub raised shares of Ryanair from a "buy" 
rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a report on Wednesday, February 21st. Finally,            ValuEngine  lowered shares 
of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Wednesday, May 9th. Three equities research 
analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, six have issued  a hold rating and four have issued  a buy rating to 
the company. The stock presently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and a consensus price target of $110.00. 
Ryanair traded down $3.13, hitting $117.65, during mid-day trading on Thursday, MarketBeat Ratings  reports. The 
company's stock had a trading volume of 13,509 shares, compared to its average volume of 308,892. Ryanair has 
a fifty-two week low of $101.10 and a fifty-two week high of $127.61. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a 
current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. The firm has a market capitalization of $27.98 billion, a PE 
ratio of 16.72, a price-to-earnings-growth ratio of 2.81 and a beta of 0.64.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, topping the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of 
$0.25 by $0.05. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of 
$1.56 billion. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%.  research analysts expect that  
Ryanair will post 7.08 EPS for the current year.  
Hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently made changes to their positions in the company. US 
Bancorp DE boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 168.2% during the fourth quarter. US Bancorp DE now 
owns 1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $122,000 after purchasing an additional 735 shares 
in the last quarter.  Assetmark Inc. raised its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 64.0% during the fourth quarter. 
Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $138,000 after acquiring an 
additional 516 shares during the period.  Tower Research Capital LLC TRC acquired a new stake in shares of  
Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth $148,000.  Elkfork Partners LLC acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair 
during the fourth quarter worth $166,000.  Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA raised its holdings in shares of  Ryanair 
by 2,506.9% during the fourth quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the transportation 
Exane BNP Paribas Lowers Ryanair (RYAAY) to Neutral
company's stock worth $195,000 after acquiring an additional 1,805 shares during the period. 43.72% of the stock 
is currently owned by institutional investors.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Analyst Recommendations for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 7, 2018
End of Document
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 07.06.2018 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 07.06.2018 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
June 7, 2018 Thursday 8:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 414 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - The following investment banks issued recommendations this morning as follows:  
Analyst recommendations in the dpa-AFX International ProFeed on 07.06.2018 - 08.50 am  - ALPHAVALUE 
RAISES BASF TO 'BUY' (REDUCE) - ALPHAVALUE RAISES K+S TO 'ADD' (SELL) - EXANE BNP CUTS 
LUFTHANSA PRICE TARGET TO 35 (40) EUR - 'OUTPERFORM' - 'TOP PICK' - HSBC CUTS DEUTSCHE POST 
PRICE TARGET TO 40.50 (44) EUR - 'BUY' - KEPLER CHEUVREUX CUTS WACKER CHEMIE TO 'HOLD' (BUY) 
- PRICE TARGET 138 (165) EUR - KEPLER CHEUVREUX RAISES AROUNDTOWN PRICE TARGET TO 8.30 
(7.25) EUR - 'BUY'  - BARCLAYS INITIATES BALFOUR BEATTY WITH 'EQUAL WEIGHT' - TARGET 310 PENCE 
- BARCLAYS INITIATES KELLER GROUP WITH 'OVERWEIGHT' - TARGET 1400 PENCE - BARCLAYS 
INITIATES KIER GROUP WITH 'UNDERWEIGHT' - TARGET 995 PENCE - BERENBERG CUTS RPC GROUP 
PRICE TARGET TO 880 (920) PENCE - 'HOLD' - BERENBERG RAISES WORKSPACE GROUP PRICE TARGET 
TO 1250 (1080) PENCE - 'BUY' - CREDIT SUISSE CUTS INTESA SANPAOLO PRICE TARGET TO 3.20 (3.70) 
EUR - 'OUTPERFORM' - CREDIT SUISSE CUTS UNICREDIT PRICE TARGET TO 16.50 (19.30) EUR - 
'NEUTRAL' - CREDIT SUISSE CUTS VEDANTA RESOURCES TARGET TO 1050 (1160) PENCE - 
'OUTPERFORM' - CREDIT SUISSE RAISES ANTOFAGASTA TARGET TO 880 (800) PENCE - 
'UNDERPERFORM' - CREDIT SUISSE RAISES GLENCORE PRICE TARGET TO 480 (470) PENCE - 
'OUTPERFORM' - CS CUTS UBI BANCA TO 'NEUTRAL' ('OUTPERFORM') - TARGET 3,70 (4,85) EUR - 
DEUTSCHE BANK CUTS RYANAIR TO 'HOLD' (BUY) - PRICE TARGET 17.20 (17.40) EUR - EXANE BNP CUTS 
AIR FRANCE-KLM PRICE TARGET TO 7.50 (11.00) EUR - 'NEUTRAL' - EXANE BNP CUTS IAG PENCE PRICE 
TARGET TO 800 (825) PENCE - 'OUTPERFORM' - EXANE BNP CUTS RYANAIR TO 'NEUTRAL' 
(OUTPERFORM) - PRICE TARGET 17 (19) EUR - EXANE BNP CUTS WIZZ AIR PRICE TARGET TO 3200 (3300) 
PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - EXANE BNP RAISES EASYJET TO 'OUTPERFORM' (NEUTRAL) - PRICE TARGET 2000 
(1650) PENCE - GOLDMAN CUTS ROYAL MAIL PRICE TARGET TO 550 (560) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - 
GOLDMAN RAISES GLENCORE PRICE TARGET TO 515 (510) PENCE - 'CONVICTION BUY LIST' - 
JPMORGAN RAISES ORANGE PRICE TARGET TO 18.50 (18) EUR - 'OVERWEIGHT' - RBC RAISES CMC 
MARKETS PRICE TARGET TO 200 (170) PENCE - 'OUTPERFORM' - RBC RAISES HUNTING PRICE TARGET 
TO 930 (800) PENCE - 'OUTPERFORM' - SOCGEN REINITIATES AXA WITH 'BUY' - PRICE TARGET 30 EUR - 
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 07.06.2018 - 08.50 am
UBS CUTS VOLVO B TO 'SELL' (NEUTRAL) - PRICE TARGET 135 (155) SEK   dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten 
GmbH assumes no liability for the  correctness of this information./rob    
Load-Date: June 7, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Holdings Reduced by Russell Investments Group Ltd.
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Holdings Reduced by Russell Investments Group 
Ltd.
American Banking and Market News
June 7, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 703 words
Body
Ryanair logo Russell Investments Group Ltd. decreased its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
3.8% in the 1st quarter, according to its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC). The firm owned 233,928 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 9,155 shares during the 
quarter. Russell Investments Group Ltd. owned approximately 0.10% of Ryanair worth $28,737,000 at the end of 
the most recent quarter.  
A number of other institutional investors and hedge funds have also bought and sold shares of RYAAY. Castleark 
Management LLC grew its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 20.3% during the 4th quarter. Castleark Management 
LLC now owns 2,520 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $263,000 after purchasing an additional 
425 shares during the period.  Comerica Bank grew its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 3.4% during the 1st 
quarter. Comerica Bank now owns 15,202 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,756,000 after 
purchasing an additional 494 shares during the period.  Assetmark Inc. grew its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 
64.0% during the 4th quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$138,000 after purchasing an additional 516 shares during the period.  Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. 
grew its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 35.5% during the 4th quarter. Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services 
Inc. now owns 2,754 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $287,000 after purchasing an additional 
721 shares during the period.  Finally, US Bancorp DE grew its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 168.2% during the 
4th quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $122,000 after 
purchasing an additional 735 shares during the period. Institutional investors own  43.72% of the company's stock.  
A number of analysts have recently issued reports on the company. Deutsche Bank cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating 
to a "hold" rating in a report on Thursday. BidaskClub cut Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a 
report on Friday, June 1st. ValuEngine  cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Wednesday, 
May 9th. Finally,            Zacks Investment Research  cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "sell" rating in a report on 
Friday, April 20th. Three investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, four have assigned  a hold 
rating and four have given a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair currently has a consensus rating of "Hold" 
and a consensus target price of $110.00. 
NASDAQ RYAAY  opened at $120.78 on Thursday. The company has a market capitalization of $27.98 billion, a 
price-to-earnings ratio of 17.13, a P/E/G ratio of 2.81 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair Holdings has a fifty-two week low 
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Holdings Reduced by Russell Investments Group Ltd.
of $101.10 and a fifty-two week high of $127.61. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 
1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, topping the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by 
$0.05. The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. 
Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%.  sell-side analysts forecast that  Ryanair 
Holdings will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 7, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Stake Increased by FIL Ltd
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Stake Increased by FIL Ltd
American Banking and Market News
June 7, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 660 words
Body
Ryanair logo FIL Ltd raised its position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 659.3% in the 1st 
quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The 
institutional investor  owned 575,221 shares of the transportation company's stock after buying an additional 
499,469 shares during the period. FIL Ltd owned about 0.25% of Ryanair worth $70,665,000 as of its most recent 
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
Several other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently bought and sold shares of the 
company. US Bancorp DE increased its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 168.2% in the fourth quarter. US Bancorp 
DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $122,000 after purchasing an additional 
735 shares in the last quarter.  Assetmark Inc. increased its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 64.0% in the fourth 
quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $138,000 after 
purchasing an additional 516 shares in the last quarter.  Tower Research Capital LLC TRC acquired a new stake in 
shares of  Ryanair in the fourth quarter valued at approximately $148,000.  Elkfork Partners LLC acquired a new 
stake in shares of  Ryanair in the fourth quarter valued at approximately $166,000.  Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA 
increased its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 2,506.9% in the fourth quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 
1,877 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $195,000 after purchasing an additional 1,805 shares 
in the last quarter. 43.72% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
A number of analysts recently weighed in on RYAAY shares. Zacks Investment Research  raised shares of Ryanair 
from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target for the company in a report on Thursday, March 
29th. BidaskClub raised shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a research note on 
Wednesday, February 21st.            ValuEngine  cut shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a 
research note on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank  reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, three have assigned  a 
hold rating and five have assigned  a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair presently has an average rating of 
"Hold" and a consensus price target of $110.00. 
Shares of Ryanair opened at $120.78 on Thursday, MarketBeat  reports. Ryanair Holdings has a 52-week low of 
$101.10 and a 52-week high of $127.61. The company has a market capitalization of $28.22 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of 17.13, a price-to-earnings-growth ratio of 2.84 and a beta of 0.64. The company has a current ratio 
of 1.23, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79.  
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Stake Increased by FIL Ltd
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, beating analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 
by $0.05. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. The firm had revenue of $1.62 
billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion.  equities analysts anticipate that  Ryanair 
Holdings will post 7.08 earnings per share for the current year.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 7, 2018
End of Document
Analysts' Downgrades for June, 7th (AAXN, CHA, CHU, ESV, IAG, MT , ONCY, PKD, PTI, REVG)
Analysts' Downgrades for June, 7th (AAXN, CHA, CHU, ESV, IAG, MT, ONCY, 
PKD, PTI, REVG)
American Banking and Market News
June 7, 2018 Thursday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 514 words
Body
Analysts' downgrades for Thursday, June 7th: 
Axon (NASDAQ:AAXN) was downgraded by analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. from an overweight rating to a 
hold rating. They currently have $66.00 price target on the stock.  
China Telecom (NYSE:CHA) was downgraded by analysts at Mizuho from a buy rating to a hold rating.  
China Unicom (Hong Kong) (NYSE:CHU) was downgraded by analysts at Mizuho from a neutral rating to a sell 
rating.  
Ensco (NYSE:ESV) was downgraded by analysts at HSBC from a buy rating to a hold rating. HSBC currently has 
$7.00 target price on the stock.  
IAMGOLD (NYSE:IAG) (TSE:IMG) was downgraded by analysts at Desjardins from a buy rating to a hold rating.  
ArcelorMittal (NYSE:MT) was downgraded by analysts at UBS Group AG from a buy rating to a sell rating.  
Oncolytics Biotech (NASDAQ:ONCY) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  from a hold 
rating to a sell rating. According to Zacks, "Oncolytics Biotech, Inc. focuses on the discovery and development of 
pharmaceutical products for the treatment of a wide variety of human and companion pet cancers.  The Company 
was formed to explore the oncolytic capability of the reovirus, a virus that preferentially replicates in cells with an 
activated Ras pathway, one of the most common family of genetic defects leading to cancer.   " 
Parker Drilling (NYSE:PKD) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  from a hold rating to a 
sell rating. According to Zacks, "Parker Drilling Company provides high-performance contract drilling solutions, 
rental tools and project management services to the worldwide energy industry.   " 
Proteostasis Therapeutics (NASDAQ:PTI) was downgraded by analysts at Royal Bank of Canada from an 
outperform rating to a sector perform rating.  
REV Group (NYSE:REVG) was downgraded by analysts at SunTrust Banks, Inc. from a buy rating to a hold rating.  
Analysts' Downgrades for June, 7th (AAXN, CHA, CHU, ESV, IAG, MT , ONCY, PKD, PTI, REVG)
RGC Resources (NASDAQ:RGCO) was downgraded by analysts at Janney Montgomery Scott from a buy rating 
to a neutral rating.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by analysts at Deutsche Bank AG from a buy rating to a hold rating.  
SAIPEM (OTCMKTS:SAPMF) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  from a hold rating to a 
sell rating. According to Zacks, "Saipem S.p.A. provides drilling services as well as engineering, procurement, 
construction and installation of pipelines and complex projects, onshore and offshore primarily in the oil & gas 
market. Saipem S.p.A. is headquartered in Milan, Italy.   " 
Skylark (OTCMKTS:SKLYF) was downgraded by analysts at Deutsche Bank AG from a buy rating to a hold rating.  
AT&T (NYSE:T) was downgraded by analysts at Jefferies Group LLC from a buy rating to a hold rating.  
TCF Financial (NYSE:TCF) was downgraded by analysts at BMO Capital Markets from an outperform rating to a 
market perform rating.  
Tarena International (NASDAQ:TEDU) was downgraded by analysts at Credit Suisse Group from an outperform 
rating to a neutral rating.  
TrueCar (NASDAQ:TRUE) was downgraded by analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc from a neutral rating to a 
sell rating.   
Load-Date: June 7, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair signs first cabin crew union recognition agreement
Ryanair signs first cabin crew union recognition agreement
Business World (Digest)
June 06, 2018 Wednesday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: WORLD
Length: 241 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair signed a deal on Wednesday to allow cabin crew in Italy to negotiate on issues such as pay, the first non-
pilot agreement it has struck since deciding to recognise trade unions for the first time in its 32-year history.
Europe's biggest budget airline averted widespread strikes before last Christmas with a last-minute u-turn on union 
recognition, but has since struggled to reach agreement on terms in some countries.
It has found most succcess in Italy and followed up a deal in March to recognise pilots by signing its first crew union 
recognition agreement with the ANPAC and ANPAV unions, which it said made up around 20% of its total cabin 
crew.
"We are making good progress with other cabin crew unions across Europe and we hope to sign more recognition 
agreements with both pilot and cabin crew unions in the coming weeks," Ryanair Chief People Officer Eddie Wilson 
said in a statement.
Spanish pilots' union SEPLA broke off its recognition talks last month while the airline has experienced minor 
disruption in Portugal due to industrial action and faces a threat of strike action in its home market of Ireland.
The union representing Ryanair pilots in Britain, the only other market where a recognition deal has been struck, 
also threatened possible strike action last week unless the company implements a transparent system to manage 
promotions and transfers. The airline operates in 37 countries. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Ryanair signs first cabin crew union recognition agreement
Load-Date: June 29, 2018
End of Document
Qatar chief claims only a man could do his job; Airlines
Qatar chief claims only a man could do his job; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
June 6, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 13
Length: 415 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Akbar Al Baker, the chief executive of Qatar Airways, stirred up the gender debate yesterday when he said only a 
man could do his job.
Mr Baker, whose comments highlight a gender diversity gap in aviation, has just become chairman of the 
International Air Transport Association's board of governors.
In response to a question about the underrepresentation of women in Middle Eastern airlines, Mr Baker said of his 
job as head of Qatar Airways: "Of course it has to be led by a man, because it is a very challenging position."
He later said he had not meant women in general, rather that there was no particular woman ready to succeed him. 
More than a third of the staff were women up to senior vice-president level, he said.
Mr Baker was speaking in Sydney at Iata's annual meeting where Alexandre de Juniac, director-general, had 
previously referred to gender in his address. Mr de Juniac had acknowledged: "As you can see from this room, we 
have work to do on gender balance." He said the organisation now required genderdiverse lists of candidates for 
jobs.
Iata's 31-member board has two women: Christine OurmiÈres-Widener, chief of Flybe Group, the UK regional 
carrier, and María José Hidalgo Gutiérrez, chief of Spain's Air Europa. Global figures for female airline pilots are 
poor. In the US in 2016, only 6.3 per cent of 96,000 commercial pilots were women, according to data from the 
Federal Aviation Administration.
Qatar chief claims only a man could do his job; Airlines
Brian Strutton, general secretary of the British Airline Pilots' Association, said: "When it comes to being a pilot, or 
running an airline, it is the ability to do the job that matters, full stop."
Airlines, however, have reported wide gender pay gaps as part of the UK government's transparency initiative. 
easyJet's median hourly rate for women was 46 per cent lower than for men, and Ryanair's was 72 per cent. British 
Airways' was 10 per cent. The median pay gap across the UK was 9.7 per cent.
Ryanair had only 3 per cent of women in its top quartile by pay.
Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, which owns British Airways, has said that equality is a "societal issue". It was 
"an issue of supply" and that it would be easier if more girls studied science, technology, engineering and maths. Mr 
Walsh did not expect a quick resolution. "It's taken 40 years for Aer Lingus to get from zero to 10 per cent [female 
pilots], and that's in an environment where they were actively recruiting women, ahead of a lot of other airlines," he 
said.
Additional reporting by Simeon Kerr
Load-Date: June 5, 2018
End of Document
Airline chief claims only a man could do his job Travel & leisure
Airline chief claims only a man could do his job; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
June 6, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;BUSINESS; Pg. 15
Length: 415 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Akbar Al Baker, the chief executive of Qatar Airways, stirred up the gender debate yesterday when he said only a 
man could do his job.
Mr Baker, whose comments highlight a gender diversity gap in aviation, has just become chairman of the 
International Air Transport Association's board of governors.
In response to a question about the underrepresentation of women in Middle Eastern airlines, Mr Baker said of his 
job as head of Qatar Airways: "Of course it has to be led by a man, because it is a very challenging position."
He later said he had not meant women in general, rather that there was no particular woman ready to succeed him. 
More than a third of the staff were women up to senior vice-president level, he said.
Mr Baker was speaking in Sydney at Iata's annual meeting where Alexandre de Juniac, director-general, had 
previously referred to gender in his address. Mr de Juniac had acknowledged: "As you can see from this room, we 
have work to do on gender balance." He said the organisation now required genderdiverse lists of candidates for 
jobs.
Iata's 31-member board has two women: Christine OurmiÈres-Widener, chief of Flybe Group, the UK regional 
carrier, and María José Hidalgo Gutiérrez, chief of Spain's Air Europa. Global figures for female airline pilots are 
poor. In the US in 2016, only 6.3 per cent of 96,000 commercial pilots were women, according to data from the 
Federal Aviation Administration.
Airline chief claims only a man could do his job Travel & leisure
Brian Strutton, general secretary of the British Airline Pilots' Association, said: "When it comes to being a pilot, or 
running an airline, it is the ability to do the job that matters, full stop."
Airlines, however, have reported wide gender pay gaps as part of the UK government's transparency initiative. 
easyJet's median hourly rate for women was 46 per cent lower than for men, and Ryanair's was 72 per cent. British 
Airways' was 10 per cent. The median pay gap across the UK was 9.7 per cent.
Ryanair had only 3 per cent of women in its top quartile by pay.
Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, which owns British Airways, has said that equality is a "societal issue". It was 
"an issue of supply" and that it would be easier if more girls studied science, technology, engineering and maths. Mr 
Walsh did not expect a quick resolution. "It's taken 40 years for Aer Lingus to get from zero to 10 per cent [female 
pilots], and that's in an environment where they were actively recruiting women, ahead of a lot of other airlines," he 
said.
Additional reporting by Simeon Kerr
Load-Date: June 5, 2018
End of Document
Qatar chief claims only a man could do his job Airlines
Qatar chief claims only a man could do his job; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
June 6, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 415 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Akbar Al Baker, the chief executive of Qatar Airways, stirred up the gender debate yesterday when he said only a 
man could do his job.
Mr Baker, whose comments highlight a gender diversity gap in aviation, has just become chairman of the 
International Air Transport Association's board of governors.
In response to a question about the underrepresentation of women in Middle Eastern airlines, Mr Baker said of his 
job as head of Qatar Airways: "Of course it has to be led by a man, because it is a very challenging position."
He later said he had not meant women in general, rather that there was no particular woman ready to succeed him. 
More than a third of the staff were women up to senior vice-president level, he said.
Mr Baker was speaking in Sydney at Iata's annual meeting where Alexandre de Juniac, director-general, had 
previously referred to gender in his address. Mr de Juniac had acknowledged: "As you can see from this room, we 
have work to do on gender balance." He said the organisation now required genderdiverse lists of candidates for 
jobs.
Iata's 31-member board has two women: Christine OurmiÈres-Widener, chief of Flybe Group, the UK regional 
carrier, and María José Hidalgo Gutiérrez, chief of Spain's Air Europa. Global figures for female airline pilots are 
poor. In the US in 2016, only 6.3 per cent of 96,000 commercial pilots were women, according to data from the 
Federal Aviation Administration.
Qatar chief claims only a man could do his job Airlines
Brian Strutton, general secretary of the British Airline Pilots' Association, said: "When it comes to being a pilot, or 
running an airline, it is the ability to do the job that matters, full stop."
Airlines, however, have reported wide gender pay gaps as part of the UK government's transparency initiative. 
easyJet's median hourly rate for women was 46 per cent lower than for men, and Ryanair's was 72 per cent. British 
Airways' was 10 per cent. The median pay gap across the UK was 9.7 per cent.
Ryanair had only 3 per cent of women in its top quartile by pay.
Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, which owns British Airways, has said that equality is a "societal issue". It was 
"an issue of supply" and that it would be easier if more girls studied science, technology, engineering and maths. Mr 
Walsh did not expect a quick resolution. "It's taken 40 years for Aer Lingus to get from zero to 10 per cent [female 
pilots], and that's in an environment where they were actively recruiting women, ahead of a lot of other airlines," he 
said.
Additional reporting by Simeon Kerr
Load-Date: June 5, 2018
End of Document
Qatar chief claims only a man could do his job Airlines
Qatar chief claims only a man could do his job; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
June 6, 2018 Wednesday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: COMPANIES AND MARKETS;NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 415 words
Byline: JOSH SPERO
Body
Akbar Al Baker, the chief executive of Qatar Airways, stirred up the gender debate yesterday when he said only a 
man could do his job.
Mr Baker, whose comments highlight a gender diversity gap in aviation, has just become chairman of the 
International Air Transport Association's board of governors.
In response to a question about the underrepresentation of women in Middle Eastern airlines, Mr Baker said of his 
job as head of Qatar Airways: "Of course it has to be led by a man, because it is a very challenging position."
He later said he had not meant women in general, rather that there was no particular woman ready to succeed him. 
More than a third of the staff were women up to senior vice-president level, he said.
Mr Baker was speaking in Sydney at Iata's annual meeting where Alexandre de Juniac, director-general, had 
previously referred to gender in his address. Mr de Juniac had acknowledged: "As you can see from this room, we 
have work to do on gender balance." He said the organisation now required genderdiverse lists of candidates for 
jobs.
Iata's 31-member board has two women: Christine OurmiÈres-Widener, chief of Flybe Group, the UK regional 
carrier, and María José Hidalgo Gutiérrez, chief of Spain's Air Europa. Global figures for female airline pilots are 
poor. In the US in 2016, only 6.3 per cent of 96,000 commercial pilots were women, according to data from the 
Federal Aviation Administration.
Qatar chief claims only a man could do his job Airlines
Brian Strutton, general secretary of the British Airline Pilots' Association, said: "When it comes to being a pilot, or 
running an airline, it is the ability to do the job that matters, full stop."
Airlines, however, have reported wide gender pay gaps as part of the UK government's transparency initiative. 
easyJet's median hourly rate for women was 46 per cent lower than for men, and Ryanair's was 72 per cent. British 
Airways' was 10 per cent. The median pay gap across the UK was 9.7 per cent.
Ryanair had only 3 per cent of women in its top quartile by pay.
Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, which owns British Airways, has said that equality is a "societal issue". It was 
"an issue of supply" and that it would be easier if more girls studied science, technology, engineering and maths. Mr 
Walsh did not expect a quick resolution. "It's taken 40 years for Aer Lingus to get from zero to 10 per cent [female 
pilots], and that's in an environment where they were actively recruiting women, ahead of a lot of other airlines," he 
said.
Additional reporting by Simeon Kerr
Load-Date: June 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Signs First Cabin Crew Union Recognition Deal With ANPAC And ANPAV
Ryanair Signs First Cabin Crew Union Recognition Deal With ANPAC And 
ANPAV
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
June 6, 2018 Wednesday 1:35 PM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 149 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair Holdings plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) confirmed that it has signed its first cabin crew 
union recognition agreement with ANPAC and ANPAV, who will be the representative body for Ryanair directly 
employed cabin crew in Italy. This agreement follows extensive negotiations with ANPAC and ANPAV since 
Ryanair's December 2017 announcement that it was willing to recognise Unions for collective bargaining purposes.  
Ryanair said it welcomed the constructive engagement of ANPAC and ANPAV which led to the signing of this first 
cabin crew recognition agreement, in Italy, which currently accounts for over 80 of Ryanair's 400+ aircraft fleet and 
about 20% of Ryanair's cabin crew. Ryanair looks forward to working with ANPAC and ANPAV and its newly 
elected Ryanair (Cabin Crew) Company Council to conclude an early CLA for our directly employed cabin crew 
based in Italy.      
Load-Date: June 6, 2018
End of Document
6-K - RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (0001038683) (Filer)
6-K - RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (0001038683) (Filer)
Newstex Blogs
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
June 6, 2018 Wednesday 12:06 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 97 words
Body
Jun 06, 2018( U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission: https://www.sec.gov Delivered by Newstex)  Filing Date 
2018-06-06 Accepted 2018-06-06 08:05:08 Documents 1 Period of Report 2018-06-06 Document Format 
Files[1][2]Mailing Address CT CORPORATION SYSTEM 1633 BROADWAY NEW YORK NY 10019 Business 
Address C/O RYANAIR LTD CORPORATE HEAD OFFICE DUBLIN AIRPORT COUNTY DUBLIN IRELAN L2 
3538444440 [ 1]: 
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1038683/000165495418006323/a5166q.htm 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1038683/000165495418006323/0001654954-18-006323.txt 
Load-Date: June 6, 2018
End of Document
TOP NEWS SUMMARY: UK Sells Down RBS Stake, Set To Rule On Sky Takeover
TOP NEWS SUMMARY: UK Sells Down RBS Stake, Set To Rule On Sky 
Takeover
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
June 5, 2018 Tuesday 6:10 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 402 words
Body
 The following is a summary of top news stories Tuesday.----------COMPANIES----------The UK government 
completed its sale of a 7.7% stake in Royal Bank of Scotland Group, at a more than GBP2 billion loss to the UK 
taxpayer. The Treasury sold the 925.0 million RBS shares in an accelerated bookbuild announced after the London 
market close on Monday, raising GBP2.51 billion cutting its holding in the FTSE 100-listed bank to 62%. The shares 
were sold at a price of 271 pence each, a 3.6% discount to the 281.18 pence closing price on Monday. The 
government had paid an average of 502p per share during its bailout of RBS during the financial crisis of 2008.------
----UK Culture Secretary Matt Hancock will deliver his verdict on Twenty-First Century Fox's GBP11.7 billion 
takeover of Sky on Tuesday. 
He will make a statement to Parliament on whether the UK government will block the merger, wave it through or 
permit it subject to certain conditions. Rupert Murdoch's Fox is attempting to buy the 61% of Sky it does not already 
own, but the bid has been complicated by competition concerns and a rival offer by US cable-television firm 
Comcast.----------Ryanair Holdings said in the month of May it recorded an increase in customers and an increased 
load factor due to lower fares. In May 2018, Ryanair saw its customer numbers grow 6% to 12.5 million from 11.8 
million in May 2017. Load factor, a measure of capacity utilization, increased one percentage point to 96% in May 
2018 from 95% in May 2017. "Regrettably over 200,000 Ryanair customers had their flights cancelled in May 
because of ATC strikes (mostly French), ATC staff shortages and thunderstorms. Ryanair calls for immediate EU 
Commission action to prevent more ATC strikes and staff shortages disrupting the travel plans of Europe's 
consumers this summer," said Ryanair Chief Marketing Officer Kenny Jacobs.----------MARKETS----------London 
shares were mixed with RBS among the blue chip fallers, down 3.5%. The pound was firm against the dollar after 
solid services figures from the UK. Wall Street was pointed to a higher open with major stock indices pointed to 
0.2% to 0.3%. ----------FTSE 100: down 0.6% at 7,697.75FTSE 250: flat at 21,102.57AIM ALL-SHARE: up 0.2% at 
1,090.99
GBP: firm at USD1.3370 (USD1.3325)EUR: down at USD1.1694 (USD1.1701)
GOLD: soft at USD1,292.37 per ounce (USD1,293.64)OIL (Brent): flat at USD75.19 a barrel (USD75.41)
TOP NEWS SUMMARY: UK Sells Down RBS Stake, Set To Rule On Sky Takeover
Load-Date: June 6, 2018
End of Document
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Lower Call As UK Government Sells RBS Stake
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Lower Call As UK Government Sells RBS 
Stake
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
June 5, 2018 Tuesday 2:46 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 818 words
Body
 Stocks in London are set to open lower on Tuesday, ahead of the UK services PMI reading at 0930 BST, after the 
UK government successfully sold part of its holding in Royal Bank of Scotland Group, though at a discount.
Meanwhile, airline Ryanair reported an increase in passenger traffic in May, retailer AO World suffered a widened 
loss for its recently ended financial year, despite growth in revenue, and St Modwen Properties reported a good 
start to its financial year.
IG says futures indicate the FTSE 100 index of large-caps to open 19.39 points lower at 7,721.90 on Tuesday. The 
FTSE 100 index closed up 0.5% at 7,741.29 on Monday.
Sterling was quoted at USD1.3317 early Tuesday ahead of the PMI reading, lower than USD1.3325 at the London 
equities close on Monday.
Tuesday's service sector indicator follows a reading on the construction industry on Monday.
UK construction activity logged a moderate growth in May with the pace of expansion matching that seen in April, 
survey data from IHS Markit and the Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply had showed Monday.
The construction Purchasing Managers' Index held steady at 52.5 in May. A score above 50 indicates expansion. 
Economists had forecast the index to drop to 51.8.
"Whilst both the manufacturing and the construction PMI headline figures have been better than expected, 
scratching beneath the surface of both data sets painted a less rosy picture. Today is the turn of the service sector. 
Investors will want to see signs that the service sector continued to rebound in May after harsh weather kept 
consumers inside earlier in the year. If the BRC retail sales figures and the Barclaycard figures are anything to go 
by then we could be in for a bumper month," says Jasper Lawler, head of research at London Capital.
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Lower Call As UK Government Sells RBS Stake
Like-for-like sales in the UK were up 2.8% on year in May, the British Retail Consortium said on Tuesday. That beat 
expectations for an increase of 1% following the 4.2% contraction in April.
In the three months to May, food sales added 2.0% and non-food sales fell 4.1% on a like-for-like basis. Total sales 
climbed 4.1% on year in May.
The UK government sold 925.0 million shares in RBS through an accelerated bookbuild at a price of 271.0 pence 
per share, a discount of 3.6% from the closing price on Monday of 281.18p, bring proceeds from the sale of 
GBP2.51 billion.
The sale of the 7.7% stake reduces the government's holding in RBS from 70.1% to 62.4%.
"With the decision to press ahead with the sale likely to provoke the usual partisan political background noise those 
who oppose the sale really need to ask themselves what they hope to achieve by insisting the government holds on 
to a stake that is highly unlikely to see the tax payer ever get its money back," says Michael Hewson, chief market 
analyst at CMC Markets.
FTSE 250-listed housebuilder St Modwen Properties reported a strong start to 2018. St Modwen Homes sales 
volumes for the period to the end of May rose by 31% from the same period the year before. However, it expects 
the division's sales growth to slow to 25% in the full financial year ending November 30.
St Modwen said that its expectations for its full-year performance remain unchanged.
Low cost airline Ryanair reported that for May, traffic increased by 6.0% on a year-on-year basis, with customers 
rising to 12.5 million from 11.8 million, and the load factor increasing by a percentage point to 96% from 95%.
This was in spite of ATC strikes during the month, which led to the cancellation of around 1,100 flights in May 
compared to 43 in the same month the year before, Ryanair said.
Electrical retailer AO World reported a widened pretax loss for the end of March at GBP13.5 million from GBP7.0 
million the year before, due to substantially higher costs of sales at GBP655.0 million from GBP572.0 million.
This was despite double-digit revenue growth of 14% at GBP796.8 million from GBP701.2 million the prior year, 
with higher sales in the UK and Europe despite weaker market conditions. 
Berenberg lowered its rating for FTSE 100-listed advertising firm WPP to Sell from Hold, and the price target was 
lowered to 1,075 pence from 1,275p.
The international economic events calendar on Tuesday has services PMI readings from Italy, France, Germany 
and the eurozone at 0845 BST, 0850 BST, 0855 BST and 0900 BST respectively. There are also eurozone retail 
sales figures at 1000 BST and South Africa first-quarter GDP data at 1030 BST.
Bank of England policymaker Jon Cunliffe will speak at the Futures Industry Association International Derivatives 
Expo in London at 1100 BST. 
In the US on Monday, Wall Street ended higher, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average ending up 0.7%, the S&P 
500 up 0.5% and Nasdaq Composite closing 0.7% higher.
In Asia on Tuesday, the Japanese Nikkei 225 index closed up 0.3%. In China, the Shanghai Composite is up 0.4%, 
while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong is up 0.4%.
Load-Date: June 6, 2018
End of Document
First Allied Advisory Services Inc. Sells 466 Shares of Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY)
First Allied Advisory Services Inc. Sells 466 Shares of Ryanair Holdings 
(RYAAY)
Watchlist News
June 5, 2018 Tuesday 12:45 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 738 words
Body
Jun 05, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  First Allied Advisory Services 
Inc. cut its stake in Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 6.3% in the 1st quarter, according to the company in its 
most recent disclosure with the SEC. The institutional investor owned 6,905 shares of the transportation company's 
stock after selling 466 shares during the quarter. 
First Allied Advisory Services Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $848,000 at the end of the most recent quarter. 
Other hedge funds and other institutional investors also recently made changes to their positions in the company. 
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. grew its position in shares of Ryanair by 25.2% in the fourth quarter. Goldman Sachs 
Group Inc. now owns 116,474 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $12,135,000 after purchasing 
an additional 23,471 shares in the last quarter. Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. grew its position in Ryanair by 
5.9% during the fourth quarter. Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. now owns 39,400 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $4,105,000 after buying an additional 2,200 shares in the last quarter. Capital Fund 
Management S.A. grew its position in Ryanair by 38.6% during the fourth quarter. Capital Fund Management S.A. 
now owns 41,928 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $4,368,000 after buying an additional 11,682 
shares in the last quarter. D.A. Davidson .... purchased a new position in Ryanair during the fourth quarter worth 
about $341,000. Finally, We Are One Seven LLC purchased a new position in Ryanair during the fourth quarter 
worth about $211,000. Institutional investors own 43.72% of the company's stock. Ryanair opened at $120.48 on 
Tuesday, according to Marketbeat.com[1]. Ryanair Holdings has a 12-month low of $101.10 and a 12-month high of 
$127.61. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23. The stock 
has a market capitalization of $27.69 billion, a PE ratio of 17.09, a PEG ratio of 2.85 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, topping analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. 
Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion during 
the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. equities research analysts expect that Ryanair 
Holdings will post 6.93 EPS for the current year. Ryanair declared that its board has initiated a share repurchase 
program on Monday, February 5th that permits the company to repurchase shares. This repurchase authorization 
permits the transportation company to repurchase shares of its stock through open market purchases. Stock 
repurchase programs are often a sign that the company's management believes its shares are undervalued. 
RYAAY has been the subject of several recent analyst reports. Zacks Investment Research[2] upgraded Ryanair 
from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 target price for the company in a research report on 
Thursday, March 29th. BidaskClub upgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a research 
First Allied Advisory Services Inc. Sells 466 Shares of Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY)
report on Wednesday, February 21st. ValuEngine[3] cut Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research 
report on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank restated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research 
report on Tuesday, May 22nd. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, three have assigned a hold 
rating and five have given a buy rating to the stock. Ryanair has an average rating of "Hold" and a consensus price 
target of $110.00.Ryanair Company ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-
passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers 
various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets 
accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of 
beverages, 
food, 
and 
merchandise. 
[ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
Load-Date: June 5, 2018
End of Document
Private Advisor Group LLC Buys New Stake in Ryanair Holdings ( RYAAY )
Private Advisor Group LLC Buys New Stake in Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
June 5, 2018 Tuesday 4:41 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 750 words
Body
Jun 05, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Private Advisor Group LLC 
bought a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY) in the first quarter, according to its most 
recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The institutional investor bought 2,019 shares of the 
transportation company's stock, valued at approximately $248,000. Several other large investors also recently 
added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. WCM Investment Management CA acquired a new position in shares 
of Ryanair during the 4th quarter worth $368,207,000. Renaissance Technologies LLC raised its holdings in shares 
of Ryanair by 28.6% during the 4th quarter. 
Renaissance Technologies LLC now owns 3,473,819 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$361,937,000 after buying an additional 772,300 shares in the last quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. 
MA raised its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 53.3% during the 1st quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. 
MA now owns 2,217,338 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $272,400,000 after buying an 
additional 770,774 shares in the last quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. raised its holdings in shares 
of Ryanair by 20.4% during the 1st quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,973,942 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $242,499,000 after buying an additional 334,623 shares in the last 
quarter. Finally, Lazard Asset Management LLC raised its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 12.6% during the 4th 
quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 2,905,702 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$302,744,000 after buying an additional 325,932 shares in the last quarter. Hedge funds and other institutional 
investors own 43.72% of the company's stock. A number of equities analysts have issued reports on the company. 
BidaskClub cut Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Friday. Deutsche Bank reaffirmed 
a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, May 22nd. ValuEngine[1] cut Ryanair from a "buy" 
rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Zacks Investment Research[2] cut Ryanair from 
a "buy" rating to a "sell" rating in a report on Friday, April 20th. Three equities research analysts have rated the 
stock with a sell rating, three have given a hold rating and five have assigned a buy rating to the company's stock. 
Ryanair has a consensus rating of "Hold" and a consensus target price of $110.00.Shares of Ryanair opened at 
$120.48 on Tuesday, MarketBeat Ratings[3] reports. Ryanair Holdings has a one year low of $101.10 and a one 
year high of $127.61. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a quick ratio of 1.23 and a current ratio of 
1.23. The stock has a market cap of $27.69 billion, a P/E ratio of 17.09, a price-to-earnings-growth ratio of 2.85 and 
a beta of 0.64. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The 
transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, beating the consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. 
Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion 
for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion. equities research analysts expect that Ryanair 
Private Advisor Group LLC Buys New Stake in Ryanair Holdings ( RYAAY )
Holdings will post 6.93 earnings per share for the current fiscal year. Ryanair declared that its Board of Directors 
has initiated a stock repurchase program on Monday, February 5th that permits the company to repurchase 
outstanding shares. This repurchase authorization permits the transportation company to buy shares of its stock 
through open market purchases. Stock repurchase programs are usually an indication that the company's board 
believes its shares are undervalued. About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides 
scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It 
also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and 
markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale 
of 
beverages, 
food, 
and 
merchandise. 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 3]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
Load-Date: June 5, 2018
End of Document
Narrowbodies keep on climbing Net bookings for 99 new commercial aircraft were recorded in April, with re-
engined models and the 787 faring well. Shipments to 7....
Narrowbodies keep on climbing; Net bookings for 99 new commercial 
aircraft were recorded in April, with re-engined models and the 787 faring 
well. Shipments to 71 operators marked a dip from March
Flight International
June 5, 2018
Copyright 2018 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS FOCUS
Length: 553 words
Body
Commercial activity in April included orders for 127 aircraft, initial data from Flight Fleets Analyzer shows. With 28 
cancellations during the month and a further 34 units swapped, this resulted in net bookings for 99 new aircraft.
The largest commitment came from American Airlines, which formally dropped a long-standing order – originally 
placed by US Airways – for 22 Airbus A350s. It will instead take 47 Boeing 787s, split between 25 directly ordered -
9s and 22 -8s leased via Boeing Capital.
Scandinavian airline SAS placed an order for 35 A320neos. No engine selection has been announced, but the Star 
Alliance carrier’s current examples of the re-engined twinjet are powered by CFM International’s Leap-1A.
For narrowbodies, Airbus took in orders for a further 23 A320neos, along with eight A320-family aircraft heading for 
as-yet unannounced customers. US carrier Allegiant Air and Bhutan’s Druk Air also will take a single unit each.
Russia’s Utair swapped a commitment for 30 737NGs in favour of the re-engined Max.
These net orders for 62 narrowbodies in April compared with just 15 recorded in the same period a year earlier, but 
were down sharply from the 159 booked in March 2018.
In addition to American’s switch to the 787, the remaining widebody orders in April were for a single 787-8 by 
Uzbekistan Airways and an SAS commitment for one A330.
For turboprops, Ethiopian Airlines ordered 10 Bombardier Q400s, and RUAG sold a single Dornier 228 to Japan’s 
New Central Airservice.
Continuing a barren spell spanning an entire quarter, no new regional jets were ordered.
Narrowbodies keep on climbing Net bookings for 99 new commercial aircraft were recorded in April, with re-
engined models and the 787 faring well. Shipments to 7....
Fleets Analyzer shows that at the end of April, the overall commercial order backlog stood at 15,169: down by 17 
from the previous month. Our data records 12,975 units from this total – 86% – as to be produced by Airbus and 
Boeing, and business with Bombardier, Comac and Embraer totalling 1,342 aircraft.
In terms of April deliveries, Fleets Analyzer records 116 commercial aircraft being handed over to 71 operators. 
This was 2% less than during the same month a year earlier, but marked the second-busiest period so far for 
shipments in 2018, after the 174 transferred in March.
Carriers in Europe took a combined total of 41 units, while operators in the Asia-Pacific region took 33 and those in 
North America, 25.
Seventy narrowbodies were delivered, with notable recipients including Delta Air Lines – with three A321s and two 
737-900s – and Ryanair, with five 737-800s. Aeroflot, Southwest Airlines and Wizz Air each accepted four units.
Widebody shipments totalled 25 units, including two A350s and a single A380 for Qatar Airways. China Southern 
Airlines took a single A330 and one 787, while Singapore Airlines received one each of the A380 and 787.
Seventeen regional jet deliveries included Embraer’s first E2-series aircraft: an E190-E2 for Norwegian carrier 
Widerøe. Russia’s Yamal Airlines and Azimuth took four and two Sukhoi Superjet 100s, respectively, while Horizon 
Air, Japanese operator J-Air and SkyWest Airlines each received E-Jets. Four turboprops were also handed over.
Fleets Analyzer shows that the global commercial fleet totalled 28,854 aircraft at the end of April: a month-on-month 
rise of 151.
SAS is to boost its A320neo fleet with a further 35 examples
3
Number of months without new orders for regional jet products
Load-Date: June 5, 2018
End of Document
Air France - KLM / Accor : butterflies in stomach
Air France-KLM/Accor: butterflies in stomach
Financial Times (London, England)
June 5, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 10
Length: 472 words
Body
Hotelier Accor is considering a stake in France's national carrier - a deal that could help the state sell down its 
position in the airline. Competition from low-cost rivals has weighed heavily on shares in traditional airlines. Air 
France-KLM has found it particularly difficult to reduce its high staff costs.
French government diversification into the hospitality industry has precedents. Sadly, Papillon, the book that convict 
Henri CharriÈre wrote about his all-inclusive trip to Devil's Island, fell short of a five-point TripAdvisor review. 
Disease and murder were rife. Room service was mediocre at best.
France should sell its 14 per cent economic stake in Air France-KLM but prefer cash to shares in potential 
purchaser AccorHotels. President Emmanuel Macron hopes to whittle down state ownership of business. A 3 per 
cent holding in the worldwide hotels group would not achieve that aim.
That is a reflection of how battered shares are in France's flag carrier.
They are trading at 5 times forward earnings, compared with 7 times for IAG, owner of British Airways, and 14.4 
times for Ryanair. The company's high labour costs mean it is in need of significant reform.
AccorHotels will say only that it is "reflecting" on whether to buy a small chunk of the airline. Strikes over pay have 
cost the airline more than (EURO)400m, prompting the resignation of Jean-Marc Janaillac as chief executive.
What Accor could gain from owning a stake in a struggling airline is not apparent. Its influence as a big investor 
would be curtailed by the need for Air France to treat other customers fairly.
Air France - KLM / Accor : butterflies in stomach
In a sketchy statement Accor said it would develop a joint loyalty programme. But it could presumably strike a 
marketing deal with Air France-KLM anyway, if it made sense. Equally, protection from takeovers may be implicit, 
even under Mr Macron's softly-softly reforms. The stake would cost just (EURO)452m. The danger is that the 
(EURO)4.65bn Accor recently received for selling its property investment arm is burning a hole in its pocket.
As a hotel company, Accor's biggest worry should be US room-sharing start-up Airbnb. It has made some 
acquisitions to bolster itself against online interlopers. In 2016 it bought Onefinestay, a UK home rentals website. 
Last summer it bought Squarebreak, a similar French company. Those deals make sense. Owning some of an 
airline does not.
2013 14 15 16 17 18 FT graphic Sources: Thomson Reuters; companies; S&P Global 24 6 8 12 14 18 16 20 
EASYJET 10 Ryanair Ratio of price to forward earnings Valuations IAG Air France-KLM Lufthansa Staff costs. As 
% of revenue (2017) Air France-KLM Lufthansa IAG EASYJET Ryanair 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Top shareholders Per 
cent Jin Jiang International Accor Air France Qatar Investment Authority Kingdom Holdings French state China 
Eastern Air Delta Air Lines 0 26 10 14
Load-Date: June 4, 2018
End of Document
Air France - KLM / Accor : butterflies in stomach Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Air France-KLM/Accor: butterflies in stomach; Twitter: @FTLex Email: 
lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
June 5, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, Middle East Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 10
Length: 472 words
Body
Hotelier Accor is considering a stake in France's national carrier - a deal that could help the state sell down its 
position in the airline. Competition from low-cost rivals has weighed heavily on shares in traditional airlines. Air 
France-KLM has found it particularly difficult to reduce its high staff costs.
French government diversification into the hospitality industry has precedents. Sadly, Papillon, the book that convict 
Henri CharriÈre wrote about his all-inclusive trip to Devil's Island, fell short of a five-point TripAdvisor review. 
Disease and murder were rife. Room service was mediocre at best.
France should sell its 14 per cent economic stake in Air France-KLM but prefer cash to shares in potential 
purchaser AccorHotels. President Emmanuel Macron hopes to whittle down state ownership of business. A 3 per 
cent holding in the worldwide hotels group would not achieve that aim.
That is a reflection of how battered shares are in France's flag carrier.
They are trading at 5 times forward earnings, compared with 7 times for IAG, owner of British Airways, and 14.4 
times for Ryanair. The company's high labour costs mean it is in need of significant reform.
AccorHotels will say only that it is "reflecting" on whether to buy a small chunk of the airline. Strikes over pay have 
cost the airline more than (EURO)400m, prompting the resignation of Jean-Marc Janaillac as chief executive.
Air France - KLM / Accor : butterflies in stomach Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
What Accor could gain from owning a stake in a struggling airline is not apparent. Its influence as a big investor 
would be curtailed by the need for Air France to treat other customers fairly.
In a sketchy statement Accor said it would develop a joint loyalty programme. But it could presumably strike a 
marketing deal with Air France-KLM anyway, if it made sense. Equally, protection from takeovers may be implicit, 
even under Mr Macron's softly-softly reforms. The stake would cost just (EURO)452m. The danger is that the 
(EURO)4.65bn Accor recently received for selling its property investment arm is burning a hole in its pocket.
As a hotel company, Accor's biggest worry should be US room-sharing start-up Airbnb. It has made some 
acquisitions to bolster itself against online interlopers. In 2016 it bought Onefinestay, a UK home rentals website. 
Last summer it bought Squarebreak, a similar French company. Those deals make sense. Owning some of an 
airline does not.
2013 14 15 16 17 18 FT graphic Sources: Thomson Reuters; companies; S&P Global 24 6 8 12 14 18 16 20 
EASYJET 10 Ryanair Ratio of price to forward earnings Valuations IAG Air France-KLM Lufthansa Staff costs. As 
% of revenue (2017) Air France-KLM Lufthansa IAG EASYJET Ryanair 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Top shareholders Per 
cent Jin Jiang International Accor Air France Qatar Investment Authority Kingdom Holdings French state China 
Eastern Air Delta Air Lines 0 26 10 14
Load-Date: June 4, 2018
End of Document
Air France - KLM / Accor : butterflies in stomach Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Air France-KLM/Accor: butterflies in stomach; Twitter: @FTLex Email: 
lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
June 5, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 10
Length: 472 words
Body
Hotelier Accor is considering a stake in France's national carrier - a deal that could help the state sell down its 
position in the airline. Competition from low-cost rivals has weighed heavily on shares in traditional airlines. Air 
France-KLM has found it particularly difficult to reduce its high staff costs.
French government diversification into the hospitality industry has precedents. Sadly, Papillon, the book that convict 
Henri CharriÈre wrote about his all-inclusive trip to Devil's Island, fell short of a five-point TripAdvisor review. 
Disease and murder were rife. Room service was mediocre at best.
France should sell its 14 per cent economic stake in Air France-KLM but prefer cash to shares in potential 
purchaser AccorHotels. President Emmanuel Macron hopes to whittle down state ownership of business. A 3 per 
cent holding in the worldwide hotels group would not achieve that aim.
That is a reflection of how battered shares are in France's flag carrier.
They are trading at 5 times forward earnings, compared with 7 times for IAG, owner of British Airways, and 14.4 
times for Ryanair. The company's high labour costs mean it is in need of significant reform.
AccorHotels will say only that it is "reflecting" on whether to buy a small chunk of the airline. Strikes over pay have 
cost the airline more than (EURO)400m, prompting the resignation of Jean-Marc Janaillac as chief executive.
Air France - KLM / Accor : butterflies in stomach Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
What Accor could gain from owning a stake in a struggling airline is not apparent. Its influence as a big investor 
would be curtailed by the need for Air France to treat other customers fairly.
In a sketchy statement Accor said it would develop a joint loyalty programme. But it could presumably strike a 
marketing deal with Air France-KLM anyway, if it made sense. Equally, protection from takeovers may be implicit, 
even under Mr Macron's softly-softly reforms. The stake would cost just (EURO)452m. The danger is that the 
(EURO)4.65bn Accor recently received for selling its property investment arm is burning a hole in its pocket.
As a hotel company, Accor's biggest worry should be US room-sharing start-up Airbnb. It has made some 
acquisitions to bolster itself against online interlopers. In 2016 it bought Onefinestay, a UK home rentals website. 
Last summer it bought Squarebreak, a similar French company. Those deals make sense. Owning some of an 
airline does not.
2013 14 15 16 17 18 FT graphic Sources: Thomson Reuters; companies; S&P Global 24 6 8 12 14 18 16 20 
EASYJET 10 Ryanair Ratio of price to forward earnings Valuations IAG Air France-KLM Lufthansa Staff costs. As 
% of revenue (2017) Air France-KLM Lufthansa IAG EASYJET Ryanair 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Top shareholders Per 
cent Jin Jiang International Accor Air France Qatar Investment Authority Kingdom Holdings French state China 
Eastern Air Delta Air Lines 0 26 10 14
Load-Date: June 4, 2018
End of Document
Air France - KLM / Accor : butterflies in stomach Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Air France-KLM/Accor: butterflies in stomach; Twitter: @FTLex Email: 
lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
June 5, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 10
Length: 471 words
Body
Hotelier Accor is considering a stake in France's national carrier - a deal that could help the state sell down its 
position in the airline. Competition from low-cost rivals has weighed heavily on shares in traditional airlines. Air 
France-KLM has found it particularly difficult to reduce its high staff costs.
French government diversification into the hospitality industry has precedents. Sadly, Papillon, the book that convict 
Henri CharriÈre wrote about his all-inclusive trip to Devil's Island, fell short of a five-point TripAdvisor review. 
Disease and murder were rife. Room service was mediocre at best.
France should sell its 14 per cent economic stake in Air France-KLM but prefer cash to shares in potential 
purchaser AccorHotels. President Emmanuel Macron hopes to whittle down state ownership of business. A 3 per 
cent holding in the worldwide hotels group would not achieve that aim.
That is a reflection of how battered shares are in France's flag carrier.
They are trading at 5 times forward earnings, compared with 7 times for IAG, owner of British Airways, and 14.4 
times for Ryanair. The company's high labour costs mean it is in need of significant reform.
AccorHotels will say only that it is "reflecting" on whether to buy a small chunk of the airline. Strikes over pay have 
cost the airline more than (EURO)400m, prompting the resignation of Jean-Marc Janaillac as chief executive.
Air France - KLM / Accor : butterflies in stomach Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
What Accor could gain from owning a stake in a struggling airline is not apparent. Its influence as a big investor 
would be curtailed by the need for Air France to treat other customers fairly.
In a sketchy statement Accor said it would develop a joint loyalty programme. But it could presumably strike a 
marketing deal with Air France-KLM anyway, if it made sense. Equally, protection from takeovers may be implicit, 
even under Mr Macron's softly-softly reforms. The stake would cost just  452m. The danger is that the 
(EURO)4.65bn Accor recently received for selling its property investment arm is burning a hole in its pocket.
As a hotel company, Accor's biggest worry should be US room-sharing start-up Airbnb. It has made some 
acquisitions to bolster itself against online interlopers. In 2016 it bought Onefinestay, a UK home rentals website. 
Last summer it bought Squarebreak, a similar French company. Those deals make sense. Owning some of an 
airline does not.
2013 14 15 16 17 18 FT graphic Sources: Thomson Reuters; companies; S&P Global 24 6 8 12 14 18 16 20 
EASYJET 10 Ryanair Ratio of price to forward earnings Valuations IAG Air France-KLM Lufthansa Staff costs. As 
% of revenue (2017) Air France-KLM Lufthansa IAG EASYJET Ryanair 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Top shareholders Per 
cent Jin Jiang International Accor Air France Qatar Investment Authority Kingdom Holdings French state China 
Eastern Air Delta Air Lines 0 26 10 14
Load-Date: June 4, 2018
End of Document
Air France - KLM / Accor : butterflies in stomach Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
Air France-KLM/Accor: butterflies in stomach; Twitter: @FTLex Email: 
lex@ft.com
Financial Times (London, England)
June 5, 2018 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2018 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 12
Length: 472 words
Body
Hotelier Accor is considering a stake in France's national carrier - a deal that could help the state sell down its 
position in the airline. Competition from low-cost rivals has weighed heavily on shares in traditional airlines. Air 
France-KLM has found it particularly difficult to reduce its high staff costs.
French government diversification into the hospitality industry has precedents. Sadly, Papillon, the book that convict 
Henri CharriÈre wrote about his all-inclusive trip to Devil's Island, fell short of a five-point TripAdvisor review. 
Disease and murder were rife. Room service was mediocre at best.
France should sell its 14 per cent economic stake in Air France-KLM but prefer cash to shares in potential 
purchaser AccorHotels. President Emmanuel Macron hopes to whittle down state ownership of business. A 3 per 
cent holding in the worldwide hotels group would not achieve that aim.
That is a reflection of how battered shares are in France's flag carrier.
They are trading at 5 times forward earnings, compared with 7 times for IAG, owner of British Airways, and 14.4 
times for Ryanair. The company's high labour costs mean it is in need of significant reform.
AccorHotels will say only that it is "reflecting" on whether to buy a small chunk of the airline. Strikes over pay have 
cost the airline more than (EURO)400m, prompting the resignation of Jean-Marc Janaillac as chief executive.
Air France - KLM / Accor : butterflies in stomach Twitter : @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com
What Accor could gain from owning a stake in a struggling airline is not apparent. Its influence as a big investor 
would be curtailed by the need for Air France to treat other customers fairly.
In a sketchy statement Accor said it would develop a joint loyalty programme. But it could presumably strike a 
marketing deal with Air France-KLM anyway, if it made sense. Equally, protection from takeovers may be implicit, 
even under Mr Macron's softly-softly reforms. The stake would cost just (EURO)452m. The danger is that the 
(EURO)4.65bn Accor recently received for selling its property investment arm is burning a hole in its pocket.
As a hotel company, Accor's biggest worry should be US room-sharing start-up Airbnb. It has made some 
acquisitions to bolster itself against online interlopers. In 2016 it bought Onefinestay, a UK home rentals website. 
Last summer it bought Squarebreak, a similar French company. Those deals make sense. Owning some of an 
airline does not.
2013 14 15 16 17 18 FT graphic Sources: Thomson Reuters; companies; S&P Global 24 6 8 12 14 18 16 20 
EASYJET 10 Ryanair Ratio of price to forward earnings Valuations IAG Air France-KLM Lufthansa Staff costs. As 
% of revenue (2017) Air France-KLM Lufthansa IAG EASYJET Ryanair 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Top shareholders Per 
cent Jin Jiang International Accor Air France Qatar Investment Authority Kingdom Holdings French state China 
Eastern Air Delta Air Lines 0 26 10 14
Load-Date: June 4, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Says Traffic, Load Factor Up in May; ADRs Lower Pre-Bell
Ryanair Says Traffic, Load Factor Up in May; ADRs Lower Pre-Bell
MT Newswires Live Briefs
June 5, 2018 Tuesday 7:08 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 57 words
Body
 Ryanair (RYAAY) slipped in recent pre-market activity even after it said Tuesday in a regulatory filing that traffic 
grew 6% in May to 12.5 million customers, while rolling annual traffic to May increased 8% to 132.1 million 
customers.
As a result, load factor rose 1% year-over-year to 96%.
Price: 120.38, Change: -0.10, Percent Change: -0.08
Load-Date: June 6, 2018
End of Document
Financial Contrast: Ryanair ( RYAAY ) versus China Eastern Airlines ( CEA )
Financial Contrast: Ryanair (RYAAY) versus China Eastern Airlines (CEA)
Transcript Daily
June 5, 2018 Tuesday 8:31 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 713 words
Body
Jun 05, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair (NASDAQ: RYAAY) and 
China Eastern Airlines (NYSE:CEA) are both large-cap transportation companies, but which is the better stock? We 
will contrast the two companies based on the strength of their institutional ownership, dividends, profitability, analyst 
recommendations, earnings, valuation and risk. Earnings ...luation This table compares Ryanair and China Eastern 
Airlines' top-line revenue, earnings per share and valuation. 
Ryanair has higher earnings, but lower revenue than China Eastern Airlines. China Eastern Airlines is trading at a 
lower price-to-earnings ratio than Ryanair, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks. Risk 
...latility Ryanair has a beta of 0.64, indicating that its stock price is 36% less volatile than the S...00. Comparatively, 
China Eastern Airlines has a beta of 1.65, indicating that its stock price is 65% more volatile than the S...00. 
ProfitabilityThis table compares Ryanair and China Eastern Airlines' net margins, return on equity and return on 
assets. DividendsChina Eastern Airlines pays an annual dividend of $0.32 per share and has a dividend yield of 
0.8%. Ryanair does not pay a dividend. China Eastern Airlines pays out 9.8% of its earnings in the form of a 
dividend. Institutional ...sider Ownership43.7% of Ryanair shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 
0.5% of China Eastern Airlines shares are held by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an 
indication that large money managers, endowments and hedge funds believe a company will outperform the market 
over the long term.Analyst RatingsThis is a summary of recent ratings and price targets for Ryanair and China 
Eastern Airlines, as provided by MarketBeat.  Ryanair presently has a consensus price target of $96.00, indicating a 
potential downside of 20.32%. Given Ryanair's stronger consensus rating and higher probable upside, equities 
analysts clearly believe Ryanair is more favorable than China Eastern Airlines. SummaryRyanair beats China 
Eastern Airlines on 12 of the 15 factors compared between the two stocks.About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, 
together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled 
services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its 
Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. In addition, the company 
sells bus and rail tickets onboard its aircraft and through its Website; and markets car parking, attractions, and 
activities, as well as gift vouchers through its Website. It operates a fleet of 350 Boeing 737-800 aircraft and 33 
leased aircraft; and offers approximately 2,000 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving approximately 200 
airports primarily in Europe. The company was founded in 1985 and is headquartered in Swords, Ireland.About 
China Eastern AirlinesChina Eastern Airlines Corporation Limited, together with its subsidiaries, operates in the civil 
aviation industry. It offers passenger, cargo, mail delivery, ground, cargo handling, tour operations and other 
extended transportation services. The company also provides flight training, cargo carriage, cargo logistics, and 
Financial Contrast: Ryanair ( RYAAY ) versus China Eastern Airlines ( CEA )
airlines consultation and maintenance services. In addition, it is involved in the provision of import and export, 
investment, leasing, and consultation services; hotel services; tour, travel and air ticketing agency, and 
transportation operations; and the provision research and development of technology and products in the field of 
aviation. Further, the company engages in the operation of e-commerce platform. As of December 31, 2016, the 
company operated a fleet of 596 aircraft, including 572 passenger aircraft, 9 freighters, and 15 business aircrafts. It 
has operations in the People's Republic of China and internationally. The company was founded in 1988 and is 
based in Shanghai, the People's Republic of China. China Eastern Airlines Corporation Limited is a subsidiary of 
China Eastern Air Holding Company. 
Load-Date: June 5, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings Blames ATC Strikes & Staff Shortages for Flight Cancellations in May; Sales Still Jump 6%; 
Asks EU to Intervene
Ryanair Holdings Blames ATC Strikes & Staff Shortages for Flight 
Cancellations in May; Sales Still Jump 6%; Asks EU to Intervene
MT Newswires Live Briefs
June 5, 2018 Tuesday 1:43 PM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 128 words
Body
 Shares of Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) fell 1% intraday after the company said more than 200,000 of its customers 
had their flights canceled due to the Air Traffic Control (ATC) strikes, ATC staff shortages and thunderstorms.
Still, Europe's biggest budget airline, which called for immediate EU Commission action to prevent more ATC 
strikes and staff shortages disrupting travel plans in the summer, reported that traffic grew 6% to 12.5 million 
customers, with load factor, which climbed by 100 basis points to 96%.
"ATC strikes and staff shortages caused cancellation of over 1,100 flights in May 18 versus 43 in May 17," the 
company said in a statement.
Rolling annual traffic to May jumped 8% to 132.1 million customers.
Price: 119.49, Change: -1.00, Percent Change: -0.83
Load-Date: June 6, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Shares Bought by First Republic Investment Management Inc.
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Shares Bought by First Republic Investment 
Management Inc.
Transcript Daily
June 5, 2018 Tuesday 6:26 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 761 words
Body
Jun 05, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  First Republic Investment 
Management Inc. raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 29.6% in the first quarter, 
according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The 
institutional investor owned 10,406 shares of the transportation company's stock after buying an additional 2,374 
shares during the quarter. First Republic Investment Management Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $1,278,000 
as of its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Other institutional investors and 
hedge funds also recently made changes to their positions in the company. 
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 25.2% in the fourth quarter. Goldman Sachs 
Group Inc. now owns 116,474 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $12,135,000 after purchasing 
an additional 23,471 shares in the last quarter. Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. grew its holdings in shares of 
Ryanair by 5.9% in the fourth quarter. Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. now owns 39,400 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $4,105,000 after purchasing an additional 2,200 shares in the last quarter. 
Capital Fund Management S.A. grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 38.6% in the fourth quarter. Capital Fund 
Management S.A. now owns 41,928 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $4,368,000 after 
purchasing an additional 11,682 shares in the last quarter. D.A. Davidson .... purchased a new position in shares of 
Ryanair in the fourth quarter valued at $341,000. Finally, We Are One Seven LLC purchased a new position in 
shares of Ryanair in the fourth quarter valued at $211,000. 43.72% of the stock is owned by institutional investors 
and hedge funds. NASDAQ RYAAY[1] opened at $120.48 on Tuesday. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a 
current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. Ryanair Holdings has a 52 week low of $101.10 and a 52 
week high of $127.61. The firm has a market cap of $27.69 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 17.09, a PEG ratio of 
2.85 and a beta of 0.64. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The 
transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by 
$0.05. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. The firm had revenue of $1.62 billion 
during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $1.56 billion. analysts predict that Ryanair Holdings will post 
6.93 EPS for the current fiscal year. Ryanair announced that its board has approved a share repurchase program 
on Monday, February 5th that allows the company to buyback shares. This buyback authorization allows the 
transportation company to reacquire shares of its stock through open market purchases. Shares buyback programs 
are often a sign that the company's board believes its shares are undervalued. Several research analysts have 
commented on RYAAY shares. Zacks Investment Research[2] raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a 
"buy" rating and set a $137.00 price objective for the company in a research note on Thursday, March 29th. 
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Shares Bought by First Republic Investment Management Inc.
BidaskClub lowered shares of Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Monday, 
May 14th. Deutsche Bank reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. 
Finally, ValuEngine[3] lowered shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on 
Wednesday, May 9th. Three investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, three have given a hold 
rating and five have assigned a buy rating to the stock. The company presently has an average rating of "Hold" and 
a consensus target price of $110.00.Ryanair ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides 
scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It 
also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and 
markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale 
of beverages, food, and merchandise. [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
Load-Date: June 6, 2018
End of Document
PRESS: Air Traffic Control Strikes Are Threat To Airlines Says IAG CEO
PRESS: Air Traffic Control Strikes Are Threat To Airlines Says IAG CEO
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
June 5, 2018 Tuesday 8:20 AM EST
Copyright 2018 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 186 words
Body
 Air traffic control strikes pose more of a threat to European airlines than a rise in fuel prices according to the Chief 
Executive of International Consolidated Airlines Group SA Willie Walsh, Reuters reported on Tuesday.
Moreover, Irish carrier Ryanair Holdings was forced to cancel flights in May due to air traffic control strikes. 
The company noted ATC strikes and staff shortages caused the cancellation of over 1,100 flights in May compared 
to 43 in the same period last year.
"Regrettably over 200,000 Ryanair customers had their flights cancelled in May because of ATC strikes (mostly 
French), ATC staff shortages and thunderstorms. Ryanair calls for immediate EU Commission action to prevent 
more ATC strikes and staff shortages disrupting the travel plans of Europe's consumers this summer," said Ryanair 
Chief Marketing Officer Kenny Jacobs on Tuesday.
IAG shares were down 2.4% and peer easyJet PLC shares were down 1.6% on Tuesday, with Ryanair shares up 
0.4% at EUR16.87.
https://uk.reuters.com/article/uk-airlines-iata-iag-atc/air-traffic-strikes-bigger-threat-than-fuel-prices-in-2018-iag-
says-idUKKCN1J10TS
Load-Date: June 6, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair May Traffic Up 6%; Calls For EU Commission Action To Prevent ATC Strikes
Ryanair May Traffic Up 6%; Calls For EU Commission Action To Prevent ATC 
Strikes
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
June 5, 2018 Tuesday 10:33 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 115 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported that the company's May traffic grew by 6% to 12.5 
million customers, while load factor rose 1% to 96%, on the back of lower fares. The company noted that the ATC 
strikes and staff shortages cause cancellation of over 1,100 flights in May 18 compared to 43 in the prior year 
month.   Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said: 'Regrettably over 200,000 Ryanair customers had their flights cancelled in 
May because of ATC strikes (mostly French), ATC staff shortages and thunderstorms. Ryanair calls for immediate 
EU Commission action to prevent more ATC strikes and staff shortages disrupting the travel plans of Europe's 
consumers this summer.'      
Load-Date: June 5, 2018
End of Document
FTSE 100 Slips Into Red As Pound Spikes After Upbeat Data
FTSE 100 Slips Into Red As Pound Spikes After Upbeat Data
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
June 5, 2018 Tuesday 11:34 AM GMT
Copyright 2018 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 185 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - U.K. stocks fell on Tuesday as the pound rose sharply against 
the dollar and euro in response to the latest IHS Markit services data showing that British service sector activity 
expanded at the fastest pace in three months in May.  The IHS Markit/Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply 
Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 54.0 in May from 52.8 in April.  Investors also awaited the government's 
decision on the proposed takeover of Sky by 21st Century Fox.  The benchmark FTSE 100 was down 32 points or 
0.42 percent at 7,708 in late opening deals after gaining half a percent in the previous session.   Sky Plc shares 
were marginally lower ahead of the government's verdict.   Modwen Properties gained about 1 percent. The 
company said that it had a good start to 2018 and its expectations for full year performance are unchanged.  Royal 
Bank of Scotland Group tumbled 3.6 percent after the U.K. government said it would cut its holding in the bank to 
62.4 percent from 70.1 percent.  Ryanair Holdings advanced 0.7 percent after unveiling May traffic figures.      
Load-Date: June 5, 2018
End of Document
Carillon Tower Advisers Inc. Invests $188.02 Million in Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Stock
Carillon Tower Advisers Inc. Invests $188.02 Million in Ryanair Holdings 
(RYAAY) Stock
DailyPolitical
June 4, 2018 Monday 10:41 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 772 words
Body
Jun 04, 2018( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Carillon Tower Advisers Inc. 
bought a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY) in the first quarter, Holdings Channel[1] 
reports. The fund bought 153,046 shares of the transportation company's stock, valued at approximately 
$188,017,000. Ryanair accounts for 1.5% of Carillon Tower Advisers Inc.'s holdings, making the stock its 4th 
largest position. 
Other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also bought and sold shares of the company. US Bancorp 
DE raised its position in shares of Ryanair by 168.2% in the fourth quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares 
of the transportation company's stock worth $122,000 after acquiring an additional 735 shares during the period. 
Assetmark Inc. raised its position in shares of Ryanair by 64.0% in the fourth quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 
1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $138,000 after acquiring an additional 516 shares during 
the period. Tower Research Capital LLC TRC acquired a new position in shares of Ryanair in the fourth quarter 
worth about $148,000. Elkfork Partners LLC acquired a new position in shares of Ryanair in the fourth quarter worth 
about $166,000. Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA raised its position in shares of Ryanair by 2,506.9% in the fourth 
quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $195,000 
after acquiring an additional 1,805 shares during the period. Institutional investors own 43.71% of the company's 
stock. RYAAY has been the subject of a number of analyst reports. BidaskClub upgraded shares of Ryanair from a 
"buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a research report on Wednesday, February 21st. Zacks Investment 
Research[2] upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price objective for 
the company in a research report on Thursday, March 29th. ValuEngine[3] downgraded shares of Ryanair from a 
"buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank reiterated a 
"buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, May 22nd. Three equities research analysts 
have rated the stock with a sell rating, three have issued a hold rating and five have given a buy rating to the 
company's stock. The company presently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average target price of 
$110.00.RYAAY stock[4] opened at $118.21 on Monday. The stock has a market cap of $27.35 billion, a PE ratio of 
16.77, a P/E/G ratio of 2.81 and a beta of 0.66. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 
1.23 and a quick ratio of 1.23. Ryanair Holdings has a 52 week low of $101.10 and a 52 week high of $127.61. 
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping analysts' consensus estimates of $0.25 by $0.05. The business had 
revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a net 
margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. equities analysts anticipate that Ryanair Holdings will post 6.93 
Carillon Tower Advisers Inc. Invests $188.02 Million in Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Stock
EPS for the current fiscal year. Ryanair announced that its board has approved a share repurchase program on 
Monday, February 5th that authorizes the company to buyback shares. This buyback authorization authorizes the 
transportation company to reacquire shares of its stock through open market purchases. Shares buyback programs 
are usually a sign that the company's leadership believes its shares are undervalued. Ryanair ProfileRyanair 
Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.Want to see what 
other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[5] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades 
for 
Ryanair 
Holdings 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 5]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ 
Load-Date: June 4, 2018
End of Document
BidaskClub Lowers Ryanair ( RYAAY ) to Buy
BidaskClub Lowers Ryanair (RYAAY) to Buy
Watchlist News
June 3, 2018 Sunday 2:41 PM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 689 words
Body
Jun 03, 2018( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
was downgraded by equities research analysts at BidaskClub[1] from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a 
research report issued on Friday.A number of other research analysts also recently issued reports on the company. 
Deutsche Bank reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, May 22nd. ValuEngine[2] 
downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Wednesday, May 9th. 
Finally, Zacks Investment Research[3] downgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "sell" rating in a report on 
Friday, April 20th. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, three have issued a hold rating and five 
have assigned a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair presently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an 
average price target of $110.00.Ryanair opened at $118.21 on Friday, according to Marketbeat Ratings[4]. The firm 
has a market cap of $27.35 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.77, a PEG ratio of 2.81 and a beta of 0.66. 
Ryanair has a 52 week low of $101.10 and a 52 week high of $127.61. The company has a current ratio of 1.23, a 
quick ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings 
data on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping the consensus 
estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. The company had revenue of $1.62 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus 
estimate of $1.56 billion. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net margin of 20.13%. equities research 
analysts forecast that Ryanair will post 6.93 EPS for the current fiscal year. Ryanair declared that its Board of 
Directors has initiated a share buyback plan on Monday, February 5th that authorizes the company to repurchase 
outstanding shares. This repurchase authorization authorizes the transportation company to repurchase shares of 
its stock through open market purchases. Stock repurchase plans are generally a sign that the company's 
management believes its stock is undervalued. Several institutional investors have recently bought and sold shares 
of RYAAY. Bessemer Group Inc. boosted its position in shares of Ryanair by 11.7% in the 4th quarter. Bessemer 
Group Inc. now owns 18,201 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,897,000 after purchasing an 
additional 1,910 shares in the last quarter. Comerica Bank boosted its position in shares of Ryanair by 6.5% in the 
4th quarter. Comerica Bank now owns 14,708 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,797,000 after 
purchasing an additional 894 shares in the last quarter. US Bancorp DE boosted its position in shares of Ryanair by 
168.2% in the 4th quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$122,000 after purchasing an additional 735 shares in the last quarter. American Century Companies Inc. boosted 
its position in shares of Ryanair by 8.5% in the 4th quarter. American Century Companies Inc. now owns 1,117,286 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $116,410,000 after purchasing an additional 87,170 shares in 
the last quarter. Finally, First Mercantile Trust Co. acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair in the 4th quarter 
worth $459,000. 43.71% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors. About 
BidaskClub Lowers Ryanair ( RYAAY ) to Buy
RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such 
as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel 
insurance through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. [ 1]: 
http://bidaskclub.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 4]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
Load-Date: June 3, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Envestnet Asset Management Inc.
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Envestnet Asset Management 
Inc.
American Banking and Market News
June 3, 2018 Sunday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 799 words
Body
Ryanair logo Envestnet Asset Management Inc. cut its stake in  Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 58.6% in 
the first quarter, according to the company in its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. The fund owned 11,592 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 16,382 shares 
during the period. Envestnet Asset Management Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $1,404,000 as of its most 
recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
Several other hedge funds and other institutional investors also recently made changes to their positions in the 
business. Castleark Management LLC raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 20.3% in the fourth quarter. 
Castleark Management LLC now owns 2,520 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $263,000 after 
acquiring an additional 425 shares during the last quarter.  Comerica Bank raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 
3.4% in the first quarter. Comerica Bank now owns 15,202 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,756,000 after acquiring an additional 494 shares during the last quarter.  Assetmark Inc. raised its stake in 
shares of  Ryanair by 64.0% in the fourth quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $138,000 after acquiring an additional 516 shares during the last quarter.  Ladenburg 
Thalmann Financial Services Inc. raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 35.5% in the fourth quarter. Ladenburg 
Thalmann Financial Services Inc. now owns 2,754 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $287,000 
after acquiring an additional 721 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, US Bancorp DE raised its stake in shares 
of  Ryanair by 168.2% in the fourth quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $122,000 after acquiring an additional 735 shares during the last quarter. 43.71% of the 
stock is owned by institutional investors.  
RYAAY has been the subject of a number of recent research reports. BidaskClub raised shares of Ryanair from a 
"buy" rating to a "strong-buy" rating in a research note on Wednesday, February 21st. Zacks Investment Research  
raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target for the company in a 
research note on Thursday, March 29th.            ValuEngine  downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a 
"hold" rating in a research note on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally, Deutsche Bank  reissued a "buy" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. Three research analysts have rated the stock with a sell 
rating, three have issued  a hold rating and five have issued  a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair currently 
has a consensus rating of "Hold" and a consensus target price of $110.00. 
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Envestnet Asset Management Inc.
RYAAY  opened at $118.21 on Friday. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-
equity ratio of 0.79. The company has a market cap of $27.35 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.77, a price-to-earnings-
growth ratio of 2.81 and a beta of 0.66. Ryanair Holdings has a fifty-two week low of $101.10 and a fifty-two week 
high of $127.61.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation 
company reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, topping the Zacks' consensus estimate of $0.25 by 
$0.05. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 
billion. Ryanair had a net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%.  equities research analysts anticipate 
that  Ryanair Holdings will post 6.93 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair declared that its Board of Directors has initiated a share buyback plan on Monday, February 5th that 
permits the company to buyback    shares. This buyback authorization permits the transportation company to 
reacquire shares of its stock through open market purchases. Stock  buyback plans are typically an indication that 
the company's board believes its shares are undervalued.  
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 3, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Position Boosted by Great West Life Assurance Co. Can
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Position Boosted by Great West Life Assurance 
Co. Can
American Banking and Market News
June 3, 2018 Sunday
Copyright 2018 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 743 words
Body
Ryanair logo Great West Life Assurance Co. Can boosted its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
379.3% during the 1st quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). The fund owned 127,548 shares of the transportation company's stock after buying an 
additional 100,938 shares during the quarter. Great West Life Assurance Co. Can owned approximately 0.05% of 
Ryanair worth $15,666,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
Other large investors have also bought and sold shares of the company. Castleark Management LLC boosted its 
stake in  Ryanair by 20.3% in the fourth quarter. Castleark Management LLC now owns 2,520 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $263,000 after acquiring an additional 425 shares in the last quarter.  
Comerica Bank boosted its stake in  Ryanair by 3.4% in the first quarter. Comerica Bank now owns 15,202 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,756,000 after acquiring an additional 494 shares in the last 
quarter.  Assetmark Inc. boosted its stake in  Ryanair by 64.0% in the fourth quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 
1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $138,000 after acquiring an additional 516 shares in 
the last quarter.  Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. boosted its stake in  Ryanair by 35.5% in the fourth 
quarter. Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services Inc. now owns 2,754 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $287,000 after acquiring an additional 721 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, US Bancorp DE boosted its 
stake in  Ryanair by 168.2% in the fourth quarter. US Bancorp DE now owns 1,172 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $122,000 after acquiring an additional 735 shares in the last quarter. 43.71% of the 
stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Several equities research analysts have recently weighed in on the stock. Deutsche Bank  reiterated a "buy" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, May 22nd. BidaskClub downgraded shares of Ryanair from a 
"strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Friday. ValuEngine  downgraded shares of Ryanair from 
a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Wednesday, May 9th. Finally,            Zacks Investment 
Research  downgraded shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "sell" rating in a research note on Friday, April 
20th. Three analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, three have given a hold rating and five have assigned  a 
buy rating to the company's stock. The stock presently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average target 
price of $110.00. 
Shares of RYAAY  opened at $118.21 on Friday. Ryanair Holdings has a fifty-two week low of $101.10 and a fifty-
two week high of $127.61. The stock has a market cap of $27.35 billion, a PE ratio of 16.77, a price-to-earnings-
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) Position Boosted by Great West Life Assurance Co. Can
growth ratio of 2.81 and a beta of 0.66. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79, a current ratio of 1.23 and a 
quick ratio of 1.23.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company 
reported $0.30 earnings per share for the quarter, topping the consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a 
net margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the 
quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.56 billion.  sell-side analysts anticipate that  Ryanair Holdings 
will post 6.93 EPS for the current year.  
Ryanair declared that its board has initiated a stock repurchase program on Monday, February 5th that permits the 
company to buyback    shares. This buyback authorization permits the transportation company to purchase shares 
of its stock through open market purchases. Shares buyback programs are typically a sign that the company's 
leadership believes its stock is undervalued.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight 
scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.  
Institutional Ownership by Quarter for Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Load-Date: June 3, 2018
End of Document
Somewhat Favorable Press Coverage Somewhat Unlikely to Impact Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Stock Price
Somewhat Favorable Press Coverage Somewhat Unlikely to Impact Ryanair 
(RYAAY) Stock Price
Transcript Daily
June 3, 2018 Sunday 4:31 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 604 words
Body
Jun 03, 2018( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  Media stories about Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) have trended somewhat positive recently, according to Accern Sentiment Analysis. The 
research firm scores the sentiment of press coverage by reviewing more than twenty million news and blog sources 
in real-time. Accern ranks coverage of public companies on a scale of -1 to 1, with scores nearest to one being the 
most favorable. 
Ryanair earned a media sentiment score of 0.15 on Accern's scale. Accern also gave news articles about the 
transportation company an impact score of 45.7488122589917 out of 100, meaning that recent press coverage is 
somewhat unlikely to have an impact on the company's share price in the next several days. Several equities 
analysts have recently weighed in on the company. BidaskClub upgraded Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "strong-
buy" rating in a research report on Saturday, March 17th. ValuEngine[1] upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a 
"buy" rating in a research report on Friday, February 2nd. Zacks Investment Research[2] upgraded Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $137.00 price target for the company in a research report on Thursday, 
March 29th. Finally, Deutsche Bank restated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, 
May 22nd. Three equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, three have assigned a hold 
rating and five have assigned a buy rating to the company. Ryanair currently has an average rating of "Hold" and a 
consensus price target of $110.00.Ryanair stock[3] traded up $2.30 during midday trading on Friday, hitting 
$118.21. 301,509 shares of the company's stock were exchanged, compared to its average volume of 314,738. 
Ryanair has a 52-week low of $101.10 and a 52-week high of $127.61. The company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a 
current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. The stock has a market cap of $27.35 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of 16.77, a PEG ratio of 2.81 and a beta of 0.66. Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its earnings 
results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported $0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping the 
Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a return on equity of 31.73% and a net 
margin of 20.13%. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' 
expectations of $1.56 billion. research analysts anticipate that Ryanair will post 6.93 earnings per share for the 
current year. Ryanair declared that its board has approved a stock buyback program on Monday, February 5th that 
allows the company to buyback shares. This buyback authorization allows the transportation company to purchase 
shares of its stock through open market purchases. Stock buyback programs are typically an indication that the 
company's leadership believes its shares are undervalued. About RyanairRyanair Holdings plc, together with its 
subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, 
Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and Internet-
Somewhat Favorable Press Coverage Somewhat Unlikely to Impact Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Stock Price
related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance through its Website, as well as 
engages 
in 
the 
in-flight 
sale 
of 
beverages, 
food, 
and 
merchandise. 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
Load-Date: June 3, 2018
End of Document
Envestnet Asset Management Inc. Has $1.40 Million Position in Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY)
Envestnet Asset Management Inc. Has $1.40 Million Position in Ryanair 
Holdings (RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
June 3, 2018 Sunday 10:36 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 770 words
Body
Jun 03, 2018( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Envestnet Asset Management 
Inc. lowered its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 58.6% in the first quarter, according to 
the company in its most recent disclosure with the SEC. The firm owned 11,592 shares of the transportation 
company's stock after selling 16,382 shares during the quarter. 
Envestnet Asset Management Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $1,404,000 as of its most recent SEC filing. A 
number of other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. 
US Bancorp DE boosted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 168.2% in the fourth quarter. US Bancorp DE now 
owns 1,172 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $122,000 after buying an additional 735 shares 
during the period. Assetmark Inc. boosted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 64.0% in the fourth quarter. 
Assetmark Inc. now owns 1,322 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $138,000 after buying an 
additional 516 shares during the period. Tower Research Capital LLC TRC acquired a new position in shares of 
Ryanair in the fourth quarter valued at approximately $148,000. Elkfork Partners LLC acquired a new position in 
shares of Ryanair in the fourth quarter valued at approximately $166,000. Finally, Glenmede Trust Co. NA boosted 
its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 2,506.9% in the fourth quarter. Glenmede Trust Co. NA now owns 1,877 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $195,000 after buying an additional 1,805 shares during the period. 
Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 43.71% of the company's stock. Several research firms have 
recently weighed in on RYAAY. Deutsche Bank reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on 
Tuesday, May 22nd. BidaskClub cut shares of Ryanair from a "strong-buy" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on 
Friday. ValuEngine[1] cut shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Wednesday, May 
9th. Finally, Zacks Investment Research[2] cut shares of Ryanair from a "buy" rating to a "sell" rating in a report on 
Friday, April 20th. Three equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, three have given a hold 
rating and five have assigned a buy rating to the stock. The stock presently has an average rating of "Hold" and a 
consensus price target of $110.00.Shares of Ryanair opened at $118.21 on Friday, according to Marketbeat 
Ratings[3]. Ryanair Holdings has a 12 month low of $101.10 and a 12 month high of $127.61. The firm has a 
market cap of $27.35 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.77, a price-to-earnings-growth ratio of 2.81 and a beta of 0.66. The 
company has a quick ratio of 1.23, a current ratio of 1.23 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.79. Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its earnings results on Monday, May 21st. The transportation company reported 
$0.30 EPS for the quarter, topping the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $0.25 by $0.05. Ryanair had a net 
margin of 20.13% and a return on equity of 31.73%. The business had revenue of $1.62 billion during the quarter, 
compared to analysts' expectations of $1.56 billion. equities research analysts predict that Ryanair Holdings will 
Envestnet Asset Management Inc. Has $1.40 Million Position in Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY)
post 6.93 EPS for the current year. Ryanair declared that its Board of Directors has approved a stock buyback 
program on Monday, February 5th that allows the company to buyback shares. This buyback authorization allows 
the transportation company to reacquire shares of its stock through open market purchases. Stock buyback 
programs are typically a sign that the company's management believes its stock is undervalued. Ryanair 
ProfileRyanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, 
the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Morocco, and Israel. It also offers various ancillary services, such as non-
flight scheduled services and Internet-related services; and markets accommodation services and travel insurance 
through its Website, as well as engages in the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise.Want to see what 
other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades 
for 
Ryanair 
Holdings 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 3]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 4]:       
     https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
Load-Date: June 3, 2018
End of Document
Morgan Stanley (MS) Receives Media Sentiment Rating of 0.16
Morgan Stanley (MS) Receives Media Sentiment Rating of 0.16
DailyPolitical
June 2, 2018 Saturday 2:41 AM EST
Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 851 words
Body
Jun 01, 2018( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  News coverage about Morgan 
Stanley (NYSE:MS) has been trending somewhat positive recently, according to Accern Sentiment. The research 
firm identifies positive and negative press coverage by reviewing more than twenty million news and blog sources in 
real time. Accern ranks coverage of companies on a scale of -1 to 1, with scores closest to one being the most 
favorable. 
Morgan Stanley earned a media sentiment score of 0.16 on Accern's scale. Accern also gave headlines about the 
financial services provider an impact score of 47.0866868676837 out of 100, meaning that recent press coverage is 
somewhat unlikely to have an impact on the company's share price in the near future. Here are some of the 
headlines that may have effected Accern Sentiment's analysis: Ryanair and EasyJet top low cost picks at Morgan 
Stanley[1] (hl.co.uk)Morgan Stanley Energy Partners and Presidio Petroleum Announce Strategic Partnership[2] 
(finance.yahoo.com)Should You Be Tempted To Buy Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) Because Of Its PE Ratio?[3] 
(finance.yahoo.com)Virtu 
Financial 
(VIRT) 
versus 
Morgan 
Stanley 
(MS) 
Critical 
Contrast[4] 
(americanbankingnews.com)Big Banks Forecast Lackluster Q2 Guidance, Muted Trading[5] (finance.yahoo.com) A 
number of brokerages recently commented on MS. ValuEngine[6] lowered shares of Morgan Stanley from a "buy" 
rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Tuesday, April 24th. Zacks Investment Research[7] lowered shares of 
Morgan Stanley from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Tuesday, March 20th. JPMorgan Chase 
.... reiterated a "buy" rating and issued a $60.00 price target on shares of Morgan Stanley in a research note on 
Thursday, March 15th. Barclays upped their price target on shares of Morgan Stanley from $62.00 to $63.00 and 
gave the company an "equal weight" rating in a research note on Thursday, April 19th. Finally, Credit Suisse Group 
upped their price target on shares of Morgan Stanley from $61.00 to $62.00 and gave the company an "outperform" 
rating in a research note on Thursday, April 19th. Two research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, 
seven have given a hold rating, fourteen have assigned a buy rating and one has given a strong buy rating to the 
company's stock. Morgan Stanley currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average target price of 
$56.15.Morgan Stanley traded up $1.07, reaching $51.21, during trading on Friday, according to MarketBeat 
Ratings[8]. The company's stock had a trading volume of 10,003,312 shares, compared to its average volume of 
9,763,603. The company has a quick ratio of 0.82, a current ratio of 0.82 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 2.75. The 
company has a market capitalization of $90.23 billion, a P/E ratio of 14.23, a P/E/G ratio of 0.85 and a beta of 1.55. 
Morgan Stanley has a 12 month low of $41.90 and a 12 month high of $59.38. Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) last 
posted its quarterly earnings data on Wednesday, April 18th. The financial services provider reported $1.45 
earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, beating the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.28 by $0.17. The firm had 
revenue of $11.08 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $10.37 billion. Morgan Stanley 
Morgan Stanley (MS) Receives Media Sentiment Rating of 0.16
had a net margin of 15.09% and a return on equity of 11.10%. The business's revenue for the quarter was up 
13.7% compared to the same quarter last year. During the same quarter in the previous year, the firm posted $1.00 
EPS. equities analysts expect that Morgan Stanley will post 4.72 EPS for the current year. The company also 
recently declared a quarterly dividend, which was paid on Tuesday, May 15th. Stockholders of record on Monday, 
April 30th were issued a dividend of $0.25 per share. This represents a $1.00 dividend on an annualized basis and 
a dividend yield of 1.95%. The ex-dividend date of this dividend was Friday, April 27th. Morgan Stanley's dividend 
payout ratio (DPR) is presently 27.78%. Morgan Stanley Company ProfileMorgan Stanley, a financial holding 
company, provides various financial products and services to corporations, governments, financial institutions, and 
individuals in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and Asia. The company operates through three 
segments: 
Institutional 
Securities, 
Wealth 
Management, 
and 
Investment 
Management. 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.hl.co.uk/shares/share-research/share-tips/stockbroker-tips/ryanair-and-easyjet-top-low-cost-picks-at-
morgan-stanley [ 2]:            https://finance.yahoo.com/news/morgan-stanley-energy-partners-presidio-
153000431.html [ 3]:            https://finance.yahoo.com/news/tempted-buy-morgan-stanley-nyse-134624479.html [ 
4]:            https://www.americanbankingnews.com/?p=6914999 [ 5]:            https://finance.yahoo.com/news/big-
banks-forecast-lackluster-q2-211409772.html?.tsrc=rss 
[ 
6]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=MS 
[ 
7]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 8]:            https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
Load-Date: June 2, 2018
End of Document
Ryanair has option to buy all of Laudamotion
Ryanair has option to buy all of Laudamotion
Business World (Digest)
June 01, 2018 Friday
Copyright 2018 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 320 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Irish airline Ryanair has agreed an option with Niki Lauda that could see it take full ownership of the Laudamotion 
leisure airline in four years, the company said on Wednesday.
Europe's largest budget carrier is waiting for European regulatory approval to take a 75% stake in the re-branded 
former Niki airline, the remains of which the former Formula One star bought out of insolvency earlier this year.
Ryanair agreed in March to take a 24.9% stake in the Austrian carrier and said it planned to raise that to 75% as 
soon as possible.
Lauda and Ryanair also agreed an option that allows the Irish carrier to buy the rest of Laudamotion as well, 
a Ryanair spokeswoman said, confirming a report by Austrian daily Kurier.
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said he would have to pay a "weirdly high price" if he decided to do so, according 
to the paper.
Ryanair said it hoped for the nod from Brussels for the 75% stake purchase in the coming weeks.
With the acquisition, the budget airline secures its foothold in Austria, which has become a rapidly expanding hub 
for eastern European destinations.
To help Laudamotion to deal with a recent rise in oil prices and become profitable, Ryanair is prepared to increase 
its investment in the carrier by 20 million euros, to take it to 120 million, it said.
Ryanair has option to buy all of Laudamotion
Laudamotion will start flying from Vienna on Saturday after starting from Germany in March and from Basel in 
Switzerland in April.
The airline, which mainly flies to tourist destinations in Europe, will have four planes stationed in the Austrian capital 
in the summer season and plans to double that for winter, Lauda said last week.
Ryanair said it planned to expand in Vienna in the coming years and build up a base with up to 50 planes.
Germany's Lufthansa currently has around 90 planes stationed in the Austrian capital. The former Niki airline had 
21 carriers in Vienna at its high point. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: June 26, 2018
End of Document
