Rate of airfare increases slows in 2023
Rate of airfare increases slows in 2023
 
FT.com
December 30, 2023 Saturday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 517 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Clara Murray in London
Body
The runaway rise in air fares driven by the sharp rebound in post-pandemic travel demand slowed in 2023, but 
travellers still face prices well above 2019 levels on many of the world’s most popular routes. 
Average ticket prices on more than 600 routes rose at an annual rate of 2.1 per cent in September, the latest month 
for which data is available, down from  double-digit growth at the start of the year, according to a Financial Times 
analysis of data from aviation company Cirium.
 Airlines have faced criticism for the rise in ticket prices, which has come as high demand for travel has coincided 
with a shortage of global aircraft. Industry costs including fuel and staff have also risen.
The EU told the FT  in November that it has been “looking into the details” of what has caused fare rises in the 
region, the Italian government threatened to impose pricing caps on some routes and European airports have also 
questioned the price jumps. 
But the growth in air fares has now dipped below the rate of US inflation, a proxy for inflation in developed 
economies, which was 3.7 per cent in September. 
The data analysed prices on popular routes and used average one-way fares in economy seating, excluding taxes 
and fees.
The figures showed that prices stabilised in 2023 but are still well above pre-pandemic levels on many routes.
Rate of airfare increases slows in 2023
The average one-way economy class transatlantic flight from London Heathrow to New York’s JFK was $343 in 
September, 19 per cent higher than in 2019. 
Fares between Singapore and Sydney were more than $100 higher than in the same month in 2019. 
Airlines across the world, from Ryanair to Singapore Airlines, have reported record profits, particularly through the 
summer months in the northern hemisphere. 
Global airline revenues for 2023 are forecast to reach a record $896bn. 
But as more aircraft take to the skies, analysts have warned that an oversupply of flights in the market could push 
down prices. 
“There remains some nervousness from investors around the sustainability of elevated demand [in Europe] post-
summer, and whether we see a correction in profitability . . . Given plans for capacity growth into [2024]; it remains 
to be seen if yields can hold at their elevated levels,” analysts at JPMorgan said in a recent note. 
There have already been some signs of oversupply in the US market, forcing many airlines to cut fares. Southwest 
Airlines said in December that it expects revenue for each available seat flown per mile — a closely watched metric 
— to dip 10 per cent year on year in the fourth quarter. 
Three senior airline executives said they were concerned that profitability on seat sales would not be able to sustain 
their momentum in 2024, even if none predicted a sharp decline back to 2019 levels. 
Rob Morris, head of global consultancy at Cirium’s consultancy arm Ascend, said signs of a slowdown could mean 
that the industry faces the prospect of costs rising faster than ticket prices. 
“[It is] not a happy place to be,” he added. 
This article has been amended since initial publication to correct Southwestern Airlines to Southwest Airlines
Load-Date: December 31, 2023
End of Document
Higher for longer lives on
Higher for longer lives on
 
FT.com
December 18, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1135 words
Byline: Robert Armstrong
Body
Good morning. Ryanair is close to hitting share price and profit targets that would trigger a €100mn bonus for its 
CEO, the FT  reports. If that happens, it will be one of the biggest payouts in European corporate history (nine-digit 
annual pay is somewhat more common in the US). Whenever I see those kinds of numbers thrown around, I 
wonder about the incentives of CEOs who become dynastically wealthy. Once a boss has many hundreds of 
millions, rather than just tens of millions, how does this change their risk appetite? Their ability to see themselves 
and others in proper perspective? I have never seen anything written about this. I’d be curious to hear your 
thoughts: robert.armstrong@ft.com
Higher for longer is dead; long live higher for longer
From an  article in the FT entitled “Investors ditch notion that interest rates will stay ‘higher for longer’”:
“Higher for longer is dead,” said Kristina Hooper, chief global markets strategist at Invesco. “Powell wrote the 
epitaph [this week].” As recently as early November, markets had been bracing for an extended period of 
elevated borrowing costs as central banks continued their battle to tame inflation. In recent weeks, signs of a 
cooling economy and softer price growth data had helped to ease those concerns — lifting bond and stock 
markets. But the Fed’s closely watched “dot plot” projections on Wednesday were seen by many as the most 
official sign yet that “higher for longer” was over.
We have noted more than once in this space that rate-peak triumphalism carries its own risks. The view that the 
Fed will cut rates four times or more next year, and growth will remain positive, has become a crowded trade (over 
at the WSJ, James Mackintosh has written a nice  account of just how crowded). But, even assuming that the 
Higher for longer lives on
consensus view of Fed policy and near-term growth are on track, this is a good moment to remember that the 
debate about the trajectory of rates was only ever partly about inflation and the central bank. It was also about 
whether the 40-year bull market in rates that began in 1981 is coming to an end for reasons that have nothing to do 
with the shocks of the pandemic — reasons ranging from the demographic (change in the balance of savers and 
investors), to the fiscal (widening deficits), and the geopolitical (deglobalisation). We have written about this 
question  here,  here, and  here.
While we have seen 10-year Treasury yields fall by about a percentage point from their October highs, they remain 
150 basis points higher than the averages during the post-GFC, pre-pandemic era. And remember, long rates’ 
recent rise was never convincingly explained by tiger Fed policy; longer-term inflation expectations, however 
measured, have always remained under control. 
If long rates revert to pre-GFC levels and real rates remain positive, the implications for fiscal policy and asset 
valuations will be significant. That’s the “higher-for-longer” scenario long-term investors should be thinking about, 
and it’s about more than just the Fed. 
The strange case of covered call ETFs
Last week we  wrote about how equity volatility is strangely low relative to rates volatility. One explanation several 
experts offered us was the popularity of “yield enhancement strategies,” specifically the sale of covered calls. This 
is a longstanding income strategy in which investors sell call options against stocks they own. The idea is that while 
the stocks will get “called away” if their prices rise past the options’ strike prices, the premium earned by selling the 
options provides income and some downside protection should stock prices fall. 
The widespread selling of calls for income depresses the options’ prices, and with them option-based measures of 
implied equity volatility such as the Vix index.
Also last week, our colleague Will Schmitt wrote a good  piece about the surging popularity of covered call ETFs, 
which are actively managed products that provide easy, tax-efficient, liquid access to the strategy. The funds 
attracted $26bn in assets this year, bringing the total to $59bn. 
It is not surprising that the strategy performed well in 2022, when stocks were falling. When stocks decline, call 
premiums amount to free money. And because covered call strategies tend to focus on stocks with high dividend 
yields, covered call funds may have been underweight the big tech stocks, which underperformed that year. And it 
is natural that the outperformance attracted investor flows. 
What is surprising, even weird, is that the flows continued in 2023, when rising stock prices meant call options were 
coming into the money, creating a performance drag in covered call funds, and at the same time rising real bond 
yields were creating attractive alternative sources of income. Here is a total return (that is, dividend-inclusive) chart 
of the S&P 500 and the JPMorgan Equity Premium Income, the largest of the covered call ETFs (current yield 9 per 
cent):
Covered call strategies, over a long time period, are likely to underperform buy-and-hold strategies, even as they 
outperform in down markets. In up markets, stocks that are “called away” in a covered call portfolio have to be 
bought back, creating costly churn. The strategy only makes sense for investors who put a premium on current 
income, or those who think markets are likely to move broadly sideways. So why should the strategy become even 
more popular in a year when other income opportunities are proliferating and stocks are rising?
Perhaps this is just evidence that strategies have momentum — they can take on a life of their own, whatever the 
fundamentals are. And perhaps an increasing number of investors want income strategies that do not come with the 
interest rate risk that comes with bonds.
I asked one of our favourite equity options experts, Nitin Saksena of Bank of America, about this. He’s a bit puzzled 
too:
Higher for longer lives on
There’s been a lot of head scratching around the growing popularity of yield enhancement/income strategies. If 
volatility is nothing more than a risky form of yield, why sell options for yield when money market yields are as 
high as they are?The best answer we hear is that there is simply an insatiable thirst for yield today, and many 
of these strategies are intentionally offering uncommonly high dividend yields on the order of 10 per cent or 
more. We’re even aware of examples where a strategy with lower returns but higher dividend income is more 
popular than a similar strategy with higher total returns but lower yield.
This is reminiscent of a  pattern we also observed in business development companies: investors who care more 
about absolute yields than total returns. It looks like a market inefficiency, though whether it is an exploitable one is 
unclear.  
One good read
James Bennet on  illiberalism at the New York Times.
Load-Date: December 18, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary on course for €100mn bonus
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary on course for €100mn bonus
 
FT.com
December 17, 2023 Sunday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 461 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary is on track to earn a €100mn bonus after the low-cost airline’s shares hit a record 
high this week. 
Shares rose to €18.99 on Friday, bringing their gains for the year to more than 50 per cent and underlining 
Ryanair’s position as by far the most valuable airline in Europe. 
Under a bonus scheme agreed in 2019, O’Leary can earn share options worth around €100mn if the airline’s share 
price hits €21 for 28 days, or it reports €2.2bn in annual profits after tax. 
The payout would be one of the biggest in corporate European history, and see O’Leary granted the options to buy 
10mn shares at €11.12 each. 
Financial analysts covering the company have an average share price target of €24 over the next 12 months, 
according to Bloomberg data, while the airline has forecast profit after tax of between €1.85bn to €2.05bn for the 
fiscal year to March. 
The incentive plan was originally due to run until 2024, but was extended until 2028 in December last year, when 
the shares were below €13. 
O’Leary was paid €925,000 in Ryanair’s most recent financial year, but also owns 3.9 per cent of the company, a 
stake which has a market value of €907mn, according to FactSet. 
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary on course for €100mn bonus
Low-cost rival Wizz Air has also offered its chief executive an eye-catching incentive plan. 
József Váradi can earn £100mn if that airline’s share price hits £120. But Wizz’s growth has been hit by supply 
chain issues that have grounded part of its fleet, and its shares are virtually flat this year at £20. 
O’Leary, who became Ryanair CEO in 1994, has masterminded the airline’s breakneck growth as it has morphed 
from a small regional airline into a global aviation powerhouse.
The airline has cemented its position as the undisputed leader in European low-cost aviation after using the 
disruption caused by the pandemic to increase its market share as financially weaker rivals have retrenched. 
Ryanair is the second most valuable airline in the world by market capitalisation behind Delta Air Lines in the US, 
according to Bloomberg data, and has outlined plans to double passenger numbers over the next decade.
O’Leary  told the FT earlier this year that he believed there was room for more growth in Europe, even as some 
analysts questioned whether the market is essentially at maximum capacity. 
“As long as we don’t do something stupid — which is a daily challenge in this industry — we will continue to wipe 
the floor with every other airline in Europe,” he said.
Analysts at Barclays have said Ryanair’s growth targets “should be relatively straightforward”, but that like all 
airlines the company faces risks from “regulatory intervention, particularly relating to environmental regulation, but 
also consumer protection”. 
Ryanair did not respond to a request for comment.
Load-Date: December 17, 2023
End of Document
Record airline profits fail to lure back investors
Record airline profits fail to lure back investors
 
FT.com
November 20, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 784 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Sylvia Pfeifer and Patrick Mathurin in London, and Mercedes Ruehl in Singapore
Body
Airlines are struggling to convince investors to back the travel recovery despite reporting booming profits and 
splurging tens of billions of dollars on new planes.
The MSCI index tracking global airlines is trading about 40 per cent below pre-pandemic levels. It has fallen more 
than 20 per cent since the start of July, even as many airlines including British Airways owner IAG, easyJet and 
Singapore Airlines have reported record earnings. 
Carriers have also ordered more than 2,800 new planes so far this year in a multibillion-dollar bet the industry is set 
for a period of strong growth. 
Yet high fuel prices have combined with economic fears and continued concerns over consumer spending to 
unnerve investors, who have anyway long seen airlines as a cyclical sector vulnerable to external shocks, from 
volcanic ash clouds and pandemics to economic downturns. 
One investment banker said following the pandemic the industry was seen as “uninvestable” by many investors.
Some airlines are still in vogue. Shares in some Asian carriers — including Singapore Airlines — have performed 
well as the region is still enjoying a post-pandemic surge in travel after opening up slowly. 
US airlines with less exposure to the slowing domestic market outperformed their peers, while Ryanair has been 
picked out as a long-term winner in Europe after using the pandemic disruption to its advantage to embark on a 
period of rapid growth.
Record airline profits fail to lure back investors
However, shares in Air France-KLM hit a record low on the same day the company announced a record profit in the 
third quarter. 
“Investors are fully looking through the results with an eye on macro risks into the northern hemisphere winter,” 
Bernstein analyst Alex Irving said. 
The investor scepticism in Europe comes despite airlines reporting strong demand for travel into the winter, 
although data released this month showed a hit to bookings globally following the outbreak of war in the Middle 
East. 
“There is always this question ‘summer is good but how about winter?’” Wizz Air chief executive Jozsef Varadi said. 
“Winter is good too”. 
This year’s profits have been built on a rise in airfares, as high demand for flying has collided with a shortage of 
aircraft. 
But some cracks have appeared in the US market, where several leading airlines have announced profit warnings 
off the back of rising costs including labour and fuel. 
With investor scepticism running high, the latest round of airlines earnings “needed to be flawless”, said Conor 
Cunningham, an analyst at Melius Research. “They were largely mixed, resulting in consistent selling pressure,” he 
added.
There have also been signs that airlines are putting on too many flights in the domestic market just as demand has 
begun to slow, pressuring yields as carriers inevitably have to reduce fares to fill planes. 
“You’ve got fuel, capacity and demand all headed in the wrong direction, we’re kind of the canary in the coal mine,” 
Barry Biffle, chief executive of domestic-focused Frontier Airlines, said at an industry event last month. 
Singapore Airlines chief executive Goh Choon Phong said while he expected “robust” demand for the rest of the 
financial year to March, there had been recent signs that airfares have “softened” in his market too. 
Carriers including Ryanair, easyJet and Southwest Airlines have still scrambled to lock in increasingly scarce 
delivery slots from Boeing and Airbus, in particular for single-aisle, or narrow-body, aircraft for short-haul flights. 
Although one of the factors driving demand is the need to replace older aircraft, the spree has prompted questions 
whether some airlines are at risk of over-ordering. 
Combined order backlogs for the plane makers Airbus and Boeing are at record highs of more than 13,900 to the 
end of October, according to data from Cirium, the aviation consultancy. 
These will swell further after a flurry of orders from Middle Eastern airlines, including Emirates, during last week’s 
air show in Dubai. 
Rob Morris, head of Cirium’s consultancy business Ascend, warned the orders pose a risk for the airlines given the 
“global and regional macroeconomic and geopolitical drivers which seem to be increasingly difficult to predict post-
Covid”.
Chris Tarry, an aviation consultant, said the industry had a history of mistiming these transactions, enthusiastically 
ordering planes during boom times, only for the aircraft to arrive just as demand and yields fall. 
“The expectation is that in a number of markets, capacity will be fully restored just when there is a slowdown in 
economic activity or consumer expenditure. The aviation market most certainly does not adjust instantly and without 
cost,” he said.
Additional reporting from Claire Bushey in Chicago
Record airline profits fail to lure back investors
Load-Date: November 20, 2023
End of Document
Investors’ Chronicle: Ryanair , Time Out, Wincanton
Investors’ Chronicle: Ryanair, Time Out, Wincanton
 
FT.com
November 10, 2023 Friday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 950 words
Byline: Investors’ Chronicle reporters
Body
BUY: Ryanair (RYA)
The low-cost carrier plans to pay €0.35 per share for 2024 and 25 per cent of annual profits afterwards, writes  
Michael Fahy.
The share prices of many low-cost airlines have taken a hit over the past three months as investor concerns about 
the durability of travel demand in a tougher economic climate have grown.
Management at Ryanair remains as bullish as ever, though — announcing that the airline will pay a  maiden 
dividend of €400mn (£347mn) this year, and distribute 25 per cent of its post-tax profit from 2025 onwards.
Although the company has a huge order of 300 new Boeings to pay for, chief executive Michael O’Leary said it was 
generating strong enough profits and cash flows to allow for sustained payouts. Revenue for the six months ending 
in September rose by 30 per cent to €8.6bn and earnings per share jumped by 72 per cent to €1.91, with passenger 
numbers, ticket prices and ancillary revenues all advancing at double-digit levels. 
Third-quarter bookings are also expected to be stronger than last year, and the company said full-year post-tax 
profit is expected to be between €1.85bn to €2.05bn, which at its midpoint is about 7 per cent higher than the 
current Bloomberg consensus, according to Deutsche Bank analysts.
Over the longer term, the company thinks capacity in the European short-haul market will continue to be 
constrained for at least two years given the difficulty manufacturers are having in delivering planes and engine 
Investors’ Chronicle: Ryanair , Time Out, Wincanton
maker Pratt & Whitney’s need to conduct  hundreds of recalls of its GTF engines (Ryanair’s planes are not 
affected). Chief executive Michael O’Leary also pointed to merger activity among European airlines, saying 
consolidation was needed to “get rid of these flaky, perennial lossmakers”.
Ryanair’s shares jumped 6 per cent and trade at 10 times broker Peel Hunt’s forecast earnings for next March’s 
year-end, falling to nine times for the following year. Given its record and potential to continue grabbing more 
market share, we see this as decent value and justification for our buy call.
SELL: Time Out Group (TMO)
Now digital only, the publisher is trying to establish a firm foothold in new business areas, writes Jennifer Johnson.
Time Out Group, the media and hospitality company, saw pre-tax losses widen in the year to the end of June as 
exceptional costs connected to site closures stacked up. 
In addition to its websites, the company operates a number of “Time Out Markets” — featuring local food and drink 
vendors — in cities worldwide. Although it says gross revenue in this division was up 54 per cent on full-year 2022, 
it has encountered its share of operational difficulties. 
In June, the group shuttered its Miami market, which made a loss of £2.7mn across the year. In the process, the 
business incurred more than £7mn in costs, the majority of which related to non-cash impairments of assets. 
Time Out also withdrew from negotiations to open a market location in Spitalfields, London — resulting in 
impairment charges of £1mn. However, the company clearly thinks that markets are a promising enterprise, and it 
has nine contracted sites set to open between 2023 and 2027. 
On the media side, it reported digital revenue growth of 44 per cent and 16 per cent growth in its global monthly 
brand audience to 83mn. The group closed its remaining print titles last year, meaning that full-year 2023 was its 
first full year as a fully digital media company. 
Management has indicated that advertising campaigns on behalf of corporate clients will be a key growth driver for 
its media business going forward. Given the uncertain global economic outlook, it doesn’t seem like a good time for 
the company to be pinning its hopes on advertising spend. 
While the company says property developers are keen on its market proposition, we don’t think growth here is 
certain, either. After several years of underperformance, we think it’s time to sell.
HOLD: Wincanton (WIN) 
The company’s pension surplus leaves it with room to breathe, but the macro picture is still bleak, writes Jennifer 
Johnson.
Logistics group  Wincanton is shifting away from more volatile closed-book contracts amid a persistently difficult 
trading environment. With revenue and pre-tax profit both down on last year, the group’s interim results are 
evidence of these sustained pressures. 
Investors were not wholly put off by the figures, however, and the shares rose by almost 1 per cent on the morning 
of their release. This is partly because nothing in the update will have come as a surprise, but also because the 
group seems to be making a sustained effort to secure new clients and control its costs.
Turnover in the group’s eFulfilment business was up by nearly 12 per cent year on year, with new business growth 
offsetting volume declines elsewhere in the division. Lower-risk open-book contracts — in which a contractor 
passes on the costs it incurs plus an agreed margin — now account for 80 per cent of total revenue. Meanwhile, 
closed-book transport contracts make up 11 per cent of its turnover, down from 15 per cent in the first half of full-
year 2022.
Investors’ Chronicle: Ryanair , Time Out, Wincanton
As of the end of March, Wincanton’s defined benefit pension scheme had an actuarial surplus of £3.9mn — 
compared with a deficit of £154mn at the same time three years ago. This was driven by the group’s sustained 
contributions, as well as the performance of the scheme’s assets. 
It has now agreed to end its cash contributions, boosting free cash flow, and unveiled a £10mn share buyback 
scheme. While this is certainly a boon for shareholders, and shares look cheap on a forward price/earnings multiple 
of nine times, we’d like to see more evidence of a recovery in the wider logistics sector.
Load-Date: November 10, 2023
End of Document
Demand for global flights falls after Hamas attack on Israel
Demand for global flights falls after Hamas attack on Israel
 
FT.com
November 10, 2023 Friday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 534 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Demand for international flying has fallen in recent weeks, according to new data, with a significant hit to bookings 
to the Middle East in the first signs that the war between Israel and Hamas is affecting air travel. 
Global flight bookings made in the three weeks after the October 7  Hamas cross-border raid on Israel were 20 per 
cent below 2019 levels, according to travel industry data company ForwardKeys.
The decline reverses a trend in which demand had been increasing sharply after international air travel plummeted 
during the pandemic. Before the attack, bookings were tracking at 15 per cent below 2019 levels, the last year 
before Covid-19 disrupted the industry. 
 Airlines have reaped bumper profits over the past six months on strong demand for travel at high ticket prices, but 
have faced persistent questions over whether bookings will weaken into the northern hemisphere winter. 
Few airlines have reported a slowdown in demand, although several, including Ryanair, have warned their outlooks 
were dependent on geopolitical events. 
Olivier Ponti, a senior executive at ForwardKeys, said the war had “jeopardised the strong recovery trend in 
demand” seen throughout the year.
“This war is bound to put people off travelling to the region, but it has also dented consumer confidence in travelling 
elsewhere too,” he said.
Demand for global flights falls after Hamas attack on Israel
Many airlines had cut flights to Israel following the attacks and heightened fears of a broader regional war. But the 
flight data offers one of the first indications of how the geopolitical uncertainty appears to have affected air travel 
more broadly. 
The data is drawn from the industry-wide ticketing database from the International Air Transport Association, and 
includes big national carriers in Europe, the US and Gulf. However, it does not have sales from low-cost carriers 
such as Ryanair or easyJet. 
The hit to flights to the Middle East has been most dramatic, with bookings falling 26 percentage points from 13 per 
cent above 2019 levels in the weeks before the attacks, to 13 per cent below. Tickets to Saudi Arabia, Jordan, 
Lebanon and Egypt have dropped. 
Bookings for outbound flights from the US have also taken a hit, with a 10 percentage point drop taking them from 6 
per cent above 2019 levels to 4 per cent below. 
One industry executive said the number of US tourists typically decreased during times of geopolitical strife, a 
pattern that has played out consistently all the way back to the Gulf war of the 1990s. 
John Strickland, an aviation industry consultant, said several other trends could have hit global flights bookings, 
including inflationary pressures on consumers. 
Autumn is also typically a busier period for business travel, which has recovered more slowly than leisure flying. 
“Airlines will need to watch trends closely on this issue but we need to bear in mind that we have now moved from 
an extremely buoyant summer to an as yet hard to predict winter,” he said. 
József Váradi, chief executive of low-cost airline Wizz Air, on Thursday said bookings for the winter were strong. 
“Of course you have issues in areas that are affected like Israel and the neighbouring countries. But other than that 
we see demand remaining very robust.”
Load-Date: November 10, 2023
End of Document
Wizz Air cuts profit forecast as groundings threaten growth plans
Wizz Air cuts profit forecast as groundings threaten growth plans
 
FT.com
November 9, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 573 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London and Simeon Kerr in Dubai
Body
Wizz Air has cut its annual profit forecast as the low-cost carrier is hit by an “unprecedented operational challenge” 
and geopolitical uncertainty. 
The London-listed airline on Thursday said it would be forced to ground 45 of its roughly 200 planes because of 
potential problems with their Pratt & Whitney engines.
József Váradi, chief executive, said the company expected to be compensated by the engine maker for its direct 
financial losses, but was facing an “unprecedented operational challenge” that could last 18 months as the engines 
are removed for inspections amid concerns over contaminants in the powdered metal used to make the turbofan 
engines.
“I don’t think the industry has ever gone through this,” he said. “This is new territory. But we think we are ready for 
it. We will be covered for the financial losses but we have to still protect capacity and remain intact as a competing 
force.”
Wizz has tried to contain the worst impact of the groundings by using its remaining aircraft more intensively and 
extending leases, while it has also continued to take deliveries of new Airbus planes. 
But the engine problems will hit the airline’s ambitious growth plans, with flight schedules in the year beginning 
March 2024 forecast to be “at similar levels” to the current year.
Wizz Air cuts profit forecast as groundings threaten growth plans
“While the group is offsetting the headwind as best it can . . . it is not enough to maintain expansion, and a lower 
number of operating aircraft will mean numbers have to come down,” said analysts at Bernstein.
Wizz said it expected to report a net profit for the current financial year of between €350mn and €400mn, down from 
guidance in June of €350mn to €450mn. 
Other airlines have also faced supply chain problems, including delays in the deliveries of new aircraft. Ryanair, 
Wizz’s rival in the European low-cost market, has said it is concerned its summer season next year could be hit by 
delays in receiving new aircraft from Boeing. 
Váradi said the narrowed guidance was also down to geopolitical uncertainty and war in the Middle East. Wizz has 
suspended flights to Israel, which account for 5-6 per cent of its flight schedules, and reported a slowdown in sales 
to neighbouring countries. 
Shares in Wizz fell 5 per cent in early trading in London. 
The airline still became the latest to report strong trading over the summer, with net profit of €400mn for the six 
months to the end of September, up from a €384mn loss a year earlier. 
Wizz also said it had “positive bookings” in the current quarter, with wider geopolitical uncertainty having little 
impact on people’s appetite for travel.
Separately on Thursday, Dubai-based carrier Emirates said profit in the six months to the end of September had 
surged 134 per cent against a year earlier to a record $2.6bn on strong demand for global air travel, on revenues 
that were up 19 per cent to $16.2bn.
“We are seeing the fruition of our plans to return stronger and better from the dark days of the pandemic,” said 
Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum, chair and chief executive.
By the end of September the airline was operating passenger and cargo services to 144 airports as it restored 
operations to destinations such as Nice, Beijing and Shanghai.
Emirates carried 26.1mn passengers over the half-year, up 31 per cent on the same period 12 months earlier.
Average passenger seat factor, a measure of capacity utilisation, reached 81.5 per cent — up from 78.5 per cent in 
the same period last time.
Load-Date: November 9, 2023
End of Document
European airlines: mature Ryanair is the boldest winger in town
European airlines: mature Ryanair is the boldest winger in town
 
FT.com
November 6, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 360 words
Body
During the past decade Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary underwent an image change. The European budget airline 
boss  stopped insulting passengers and adopted a more conciliatory tone in his public appearances.
Now Ryanair is maturing financially as well. It will pay a  regular dividend for the first time from next year. Ryanair is 
no longer a mouthy upstart but a cash-generative incumbent with relatively low debt. But do not expect Ryanair to 
give up its position as the industry’s disrupter-in-chief entirely.
Ryanair’s coming of age should not come as a shock. The business weathered the pandemic years better than 
rivals. A strong recovery in European air travel since then has meant free cash flow, negative in 2021, rebounded to 
€2bn last year. 
Consumers have prioritised holidays despite tightening household budgets. This allowed Ryanair to increase 
average fares 24 per cent in the first half to offset higher fuel costs, and freed it up to prioritise debt repayment. 
Previously, Ryanair preferred to return excess cash via buybacks and special dividends. But that ad hoc approach 
makes less sense now M&A is less likely.
Ryanair will pay an ordinary dividend of €400mn in two instalments next year. Thereafter it has committed to pay 25 
per cent of the previous year’s profit after tax, a payout worth just under €500mn for 2025.
Cash flow this year will be crimped by paying for the remaining 737-8200 “game-changer” aircraft Ryanair ordered 
from Boeing.  Delivery commenced in 2021. Capital expenditure should then dip in 2025 before Ryanair starts 
paying towards its most recent order for fuel-efficient Max-10 aircraft. These should be delivered  from 2027 
onwards. The intervening capex holiday could inspire further buybacks.
European airlines: mature Ryanair is the boldest winger in town
Ryanair’s shares have outperformed European rivals this year yet still trade on a forward price earnings multiple of 
about nine times compared with around 14 times pre-pandemic. 
Airlines are always vulnerable to geopolitical shocks and consumer downturns. But with a strong balance sheet and 
cost base at least 50 per cent lower than rivals, middle-aged Ryanair should still demonstrate the vigour of a much 
younger airline.
Load-Date: November 6, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair plans regular dividend for first time as it forecasts record annual profit
Ryanair plans regular dividend for first time as it forecasts record annual 
profit
 
FT.com
November 6, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 508 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Ryanair forecast a record annual profit and outlined plans to pay a regular dividend for the first time as the airline 
cashed in on its busiest-ever summer and a rise in airfares.
Europe’s largest airline by passenger numbers on Monday forecast a full-year net profit between €1.85bn and 
€2.05bn for its financial year ending in March, which would beat a record set in 2018.
The airline became the latest to report booming profits over the summer as the industry rebounded from the impact 
of the Covid-19 pandemic thanks to strong demand for travel and high ticket prices. 
Rivals including British Airways owner IAG, easyJet and Air France-KLM have all reported record summer earnings 
in recent weeks.
 Ryanair underlined its recovery by announcing plans to pay shareholders a regular dividend for the first time, 
starting with €400mn over the next year. It pledged to then return about 25 per cent of the prior-year profit after tax 
to shareholders.
The airline paid out more than €6bn to shareholders between 2008 and 2020, but only through buybacks or special 
dividends. 
Ryanair plans regular dividend for first time as it forecasts record annual profit
Chief financial officer Neil Sorahan said the switch to regular payouts reflected the “maturity” of Ryanair’s business, 
following years of high capital spending before the pandemic as it built its dominant position in the European 
market. 
As carriers across Europe report record profits, the biggest question facing the industry is how long the boom times 
can continue, and whether demand for travel will remain strong into next year.
Sorahan said Christmas looked “strong” and the airline was “pleased” with early sales for summer 2024.
But Ryanair cautioned that its financial guidance was “highly dependent on the absence of any unforeseen adverse 
events, for example such as Ukraine or Gaza”. 
The airline said it faced a “significantly” higher fuel bill — up €1.3bn this financial year — meaning it was unlikely to 
replicate last year’s “bumper” fiscal third quarter. 
Ryanair added that it also faced higher environmental EU charges from January and delivery delays for new aircraft 
from Boeing.
Ryanair carried 105.4mn passengers between April and September, a record for the summer season. 
Net profit for the period rose 59 per cent compared with the previous year to €2.18bn, as average airfares rose by 
nearly a quarter.
Airlines have been able to  raise fares in Europe as strong demand for leisure travel has come amid a capacity 
crunch, and the industry still has fewer planes in the air than before the pandemic after retiring many jets during the 
coronavirus crisis.
Airbus and Boeing have suffered from delays in producing new aircraft, while some airlines have also had to take 
their existing jets out of service because of a product recall from engine maker Pratt & Whitney.
Sorahan said he expected airfares to stay high into next summer because of the imbalance between supply and 
demand in the industry. “Capacity is going to remain constrained for some time to come . . . I think it leads to higher 
fares for the next while and potentially into next summer,” he said.
Load-Date: November 6, 2023
End of Document
Brussels probes flight prices after airlines’ record-breaking summer
Brussels probes flight prices after airlines’ record-breaking summer
 
FT.com
November 6, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1419 words
Byline: Darren Dodd
Body
Today’s top stories
•
UK prime minister Rishi Sunak  will announce new legislation in the King’s Speech tomorrow to mandate 
annual North Sea oil and gas licensing rounds. 
•
US Treasury secretary Janet Yellen is set to meet China’s vice-premier He Lifeng in San Francisco this 
week ahead of a summit between the countries’ leaders at the  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. 
On the agenda are US concerns about unfair Chinese economic practices as well as potential areas for co-
operation such as climate change and debt relief for low-income countries.
•
The “friend-shoring” trend of multinationals shifting production to politically friendly countries is gathering 
pace, according to the European Central Bank, but is also  pushing up prices.
For up-to-the-minute news updates, visit our  live blog
Good evening.
Record airline profits and a warning from Brussels about soaring fares are the latest evidence, if any more was 
needed, of the spectacular bounceback in air travel since its pandemic lows.
Ryanair, Europe’s largest carrier by passenger numbers, today announced plans for a regular dividend for the first 
time on the back of what it forecasts to be  record annual profits.
Brussels probes flight prices after airlines’ record-breaking summer
Rivals including  British Airways owner IAG,  Lufthansa,  easyJet and Air France-KLM have all recently reported 
similarly booming profits from a summer of huge demand and high ticket prices.
It is these surging ticket prices — rising up to 30 per cent — that have prompted the  European Commission today 
to announce its officials were “looking into detail . . . of what is exactly going on in the market and why”. Brussels 
does not have the power to regulate airfares but the intervention adds to pressure on airlines over the recent rises, 
triggered by supply chain problems and booming demand.
The boom also means good business for the $110bn a year aircraft  repair and maintenance market. The shortage 
of new planes means airlines are spending more than ever on keeping their aircraft in the air. “I’ve been at the 
company for 34 years and I have never seen a demand environment like we are in today,” said the boss of one 
replacement parts company. 
 Aircraft rental costs are also soaring as the industry struggles with manufacturing delays, leading to older aircraft 
flying for longer as airlines extend leases. Airbus and Boeing have record order backlogs, while problems such as a 
recall of more than 1,000  Pratt & Whitney jet engines have added to strains in the industry.
Airports are the other big beneficiary. London Heathrow has sharply cut its losses and raised passenger forecasts 
after an  “extraordinary” summer, with particularly strong demand from long-haul markets, including Asia-Pacific, 
where traffic has recovered to 94 per cent of pre-pandemic numbers following the reopening of many borders 
earlier this year.  
One downside for airlines flying through UK airspace is a large rise in  air traffic control fees, which the head of 
sector body Airlines UK said would inevitably feed through to ticket prices.
The increase in flying inevitably comes at a cost, with concern about its impact on the planet  entering a new phase. 
And until such time greener aviation fuels and technologies take off, it remains a highly polluting industry. A round-
trip flight from London to San Francisco, for example, emits more per person than a car does in a year. 
But, as the  FT editorial board has noted, the drive towards more sustainable travel cannot be left to flight-shaming 
and climate-conscious backpackers: ultimately it will come down to concerted action from governments, industry, 
and international bodies.
Need to know: UK and Europe economy
The UK said it would bring stablecoins — a type of digital token designed to track the price of hard currencies — 
into the real economy as a  payment option for goods and services. The move is the latest step in the country’s 
attempt to establish itself as a hub for digital assets amid concerns that Brexit has damaged its position as Europe’s 
leading financial centre.
UK housebuilding activity shrank for the 11th consecutive month as high borrowing costs hit demand, according 
to new S&P Global PMI data.
Denmark’s climate minister told the Financial Times that EU farmers should pay for their greenhouse gas 
emissions. The sector is projected to become the bloc’s biggest polluter by 2040. 
An economy falling behind the US, an unsatisfactory performance in sectors such as tech and semiconductors, and 
longstanding structural issues mean the EU needs to regain its competitive edge. A Big Read  examines how it 
plans to do it.
Need to know: global economy
Israel’s $488bn economy is  suffering badly under the impact of the war, with businesses disrupted, public 
finances strained and entire sectors in crisis. Prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu has promised vast transfers of 
cash to endangered companies and regions on a scale last seen during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Brussels probes flight prices after airlines’ record-breaking summer
An unprecedented drought in the Amazon rainforest region has  extreme implications for the planet’s climate. As 
extreme heat and water shortages kill trees and spark fires, the forest releases carbon dioxide, fuelling the process 
of global warming that scientists say is an important factor behind the drought in the first place. 
Bill Gates is the latest interviewee in our Climate Exchange series, explaining the rationale for his Breakthrough 
fund investments in more than 100 nascent  climate tech companies. 
Join us on November 8-10 to discuss the global implications of the Israel-Hamas war and other big issues, with 
guests including the president of the European Central Bank, at our Global Boardroom event.  Register for free 
today.
Need to know: business
A total of 127 companies have voluntarily admitted breaching UK sanctionsagainst Russia to  reduce government 
penalties. The UK has placed more than 1,600 individuals and companies under sanctions since Russia’s full-scale 
invasion of Ukraine with a moratorium on entities dealing with more than two dozen banks and more than 100 
oligarchs.
Elon Musk’s artificial intelligence start-up xAI released its first AI model, a  chatbot named Grok, tightly integrated 
with X, formerly Twitter. 
The world’s most prestigious consulting firms have  frozen US starting salaries for new graduates, as a war for 
talent that sent pay soaring after the pandemic gives way to tougher competition for jobs. 
The battle for the future of car manufacturing is heating up as Toyota battles to catch up with Tesla on the 
assembly line in a  new era of electric vehicles. Volvo Cars is considering  increasing its US production to take 
advantage of green incentives from US president Joe Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act.
The post-pandemic  rebound in gigs and hospitality has driven global music copyright revenues to $41.5bn. 
Thanks to streaming services such as Spotify,  subscription models now make up more than 62 per cent of all 
global recorded music revenues.
The party’s over: US demand for cognac has slumped after a three-year boom. The French groups that dominate 
the market — LVMH, Rémy Cointreau and Pernod Ricard — each reported declining sales in third-quarter earnings 
reports, matching the downturn in the broader market for luxury goods. 
The world of work
UK tax experts warned that the self-employed were “sleepwalking” to tax bill shocks after a  change from HMRC 
on reporting profits.
A large study from BlackRock suggests that gender-balanced companies outperform their peers. The higher 
return on assets held true within countries and sectors, and was especially marked for companies where gender 
parity was greatest in revenue-producing, engineering and top-paying jobs.
Socio-economic background is a greater block to career progression than gender and ethnicity, according to 
recent research, with  working-class women suffering a double disadvantage.
The percentage of businesses founded by people aged 55 to 64 has increased steadily over the past few years. 
Research suggests experienced founders are more likely to succeed,  despite the prejudices of investors. 
Benefits have overtaken pay as the key to hiring and keeping staff in the UK. Read this and more, including the 
evolving role of jobs websites, in our new special report:  The UK’s Leading Recruiters.
Some good news
Brussels probes flight prices after airlines’ record-breaking summer
Data on the first month of the London-wide ultra-low emissions zone shows it has  cut the number of polluting 
vehicles on the city’s roads by almost half since June. About 95 per cent of vehicles driving in London on an 
average day now meet the Ulez emissions standards.
Load-Date: November 6, 2023
End of Document
European airlines in deal drive to boost profits and open up routes
European airlines in deal drive to boost profits and open up routes
 
FT.com
October 18, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1033 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London and Alice Hancock in Brussels
Body
Europe’s three biggest long-haul airlines are pushing ahead with a series of deals that would transform the aviation 
landscape in the region by opening up lucrative new routes and the prospect of higher profits. 
If the deals materialise, it will help turn a fragmented sector with dozens of national flag carriers into a market more 
like the US, where just a handful of large airlines dominate the skies. 
British Airways owner IAG, Lufthansa and Air France-KLM are all hoping to gain regulatory approval for deals that 
would give them a combined share of nearly three quarters of the long-haul market. 
“Europe airlines need to consolidate,” said Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary. 
“We will emerge with an industry not unlike America: US groups carrying 200mn passengers annually that have the 
ability to invest,” he added.
If regulators back IAG’s purchase of Air Europa and Lufthansa’s swoop on ITA after Air France-KLM this month  
took a 20 per cent stake in SAS, then Europe will have taken a major step towards replicating the US market, the 
world’s most profitable. 
All three airline groups have also expressed an interest in buying part of Portugal’s national carrier TAP after 
Lisbon’s government this month announced the start of a privatisation process. 
European airlines in deal drive to boost profits and open up routes
At least one major airline group has also considered a push into eastern Europe with a bid for a national airline 
there, according to a person familiar with the matter. 
However, winning regulatory approval for cross-border mergers could be difficult in Europe, industry experts have 
warned. 
On Tuesday, the new EU antitrust commissioner told the Financial Times that the bloc planned to tighten rules 
around airline mergers because of competition concerns. 
“There should and will be more consolidation in Europe, but it is sometimes a daunting challenge . . . traditionally 
there has always been national interest and identity that has been inexorably linked to the airline industry,” said Dan 
McKone, senior partner at consultancy LEK. 
The European deals have come as carriers rebuild their balance sheets after a lucrative summer with 
holidaymakers shrugging off high prices and filling up planes.
That has allowed the big carriers to hunt for mergers to grow their networks with demand for travel recovering from 
the pandemic. 
The dealmaking burst comes after years of steady consolidation before the pandemic had already concentrated 
long-haul flights into the hands of Europe’s three big global airline groups. 
IAG was formed in 2011 to consolidate regional players into a group and owns airlines including Aer Lingus, Iberia 
and Vueling. 
Lufthansa has expanded from its German roots and hoovered up other central and northern European airlines and 
also owns Swiss, Austrian Airlines and Brussels Airlines. 
Air France and KLM merged in 2004 and the group also holds minority stakes in a clutch of other airlines. 
Low-cost airlines have been slower to consolidate, although Wizz Air made an opportunistic bid for easyJet in 2021, 
which was rejected. O’Leary has ruled out dealmaking for Ryanair, Europe’s biggest group, which will concentrate 
on organic growth through slashing fares. 
Consolidation in Europe has historically lagged the US, which underwent frenetic consolidation between 2008 and 
2013. 
In the US, the four major airlines — United Airlines, Delta Air Lines, American Airlines and Southwest Airlines — will 
operate 72 per cent of flight schedules this year, according to an FT analysis of figures from aviation data company 
OAG.
In Europe, the biggest four airline groups — Ryanair, Lufthansa, Air France-KLM and easyJet — have a combined 
46 per cent market share.
In turn, US airlines are forecast to report an average pre-tax profit of $9.53 per passenger this year, more than 
double the $4.36 in Europe, according to the global airline trade body the International Air Transport Association. 
Still, long-haul flying is more concentrated in Europe, and the big three groups will control 73 per cent of wide-body 
capacity in the region if their proposed deals go through, according to Robert Boyle, consultant and former director 
of strategy at IAG. 
The effect of US consolidation has also been mixed, according to analysts. 
On the one hand, it has boosted balance sheets with higher fares and fuller planes, said Savanthi Syth, an analyst 
at Raymond James. But the billions returned to shareholders instead of being invested in operations has been 
blamed for a string of disruptions.
European airlines in deal drive to boost profits and open up routes
A poll in August found more people held a negative view of the industry than a favourable one for the first time in 10 
years. 
Regardless, senior executives in Europe are united that the push for consolidation must continue. 
“We need to compete in a global market,” said Luis Gallego, IAG’s chief executive. “The problem we have in 
Europe is we have small airlines that need to compete in a global world.”
Mergers are also the route to scaling up in Europe because opportunities for organic growth are limited, with 
ferocious competition from low-cost rivals in the short-haul market.
Added to this are capacity bottlenecks and a shortage of landing slots at the hub airports, which serve long-haul 
flights such as London Heathrow. 
All three airline groups circling Portugal’s TAP would substantially grow their presence in the lucrative South 
American market in a stroke with a deal. 
Likewise, a stake in ITA, the successor to the failed Alitalia, would give Lufthansa access to a new base hundreds 
of miles further south than its northern European hubs, and better access to the southern hemisphere. 
Gallego said airlines will also need greater scale to afford the huge bill for decarbonisation that is expected in the 
coming decades as the industry switches to newer, more expensive but less polluting fuels.
Airline mergers are “nearly always compelling” on paper, said LEK consultancy’s McKone, with opportunities to cut 
costs by combining maintenance operations, pooling orders for planes and boosting revenues by optimising flight 
networks and integrating loyalty programmes. 
“There is a lot of economic gravity pulling towards consolidation in the airline industry,” McKone added. 
Additional reporting by Sarah White in Paris
Load-Date: October 19, 2023
End of Document
Airlines hit out over Dutch plan to phase out EU fossil fuel subsidies
Airlines hit out over Dutch plan to phase out EU fossil fuel subsidies
 
FT.com
October 16, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 651 words
Byline: Alice Hancock in Brussels and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Airline bosses have criticised a Dutch plan for an EU-wide phaseout of fossil fuel subsidies, saying such a move will 
be fanciful until there are affordable greener travel alternatives.
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary and Lufthansa chief executive Carsten Spohr were among European airline 
executives who said at a briefing last week that train fares remained too expensive to replace air travel, and 
policymakers’ plans to make aviation more sustainable by cutting support would backfire.
The Dutch government announced last month that it spent up to €46.4bn in 2023 supporting the use of fossil fuels, 
either through direct subsidies or tax schemes that indirectly led to more polluting energies being used. More than 
€3.6bn went to airlines, as fuel supplied for use in aviation is currently fully exempt from taxation in the EU. 
Rob Jetten, the Dutch climate minister, told the Financial Times that reforming the tax system and cutting subsidies 
was “crucial” to delivering the clean transition, and that governments should “redesign the rules of the market”.
He added, however, that fossil fuel subsidies, particularly ones that resulted from international agreements such as 
for airlines and shipping, “need to be tackled from the EU level”.
But O’Leary, the Ryanair boss, said: “Until you have some affordable alternative that you can offer to voters and to 
consumers across Europe, it’s all just pie in the sky.” 
Ourania Georgoutsakou, managing director of the industry body Airlines for Europe, added that increasing fuel 
taxes for airlines would increase costs which “at some point will impact the passenger”.
Airlines hit out over Dutch plan to phase out EU fossil fuel subsidies
Fuel is one of the single biggest expenses for airlines, and accounts for about 25 per cent of their operating costs. 
Aviation is also among the toughest sectors to decarbonise, with alternatives to jet fuels still at an embryonic stage. 
The airline industry last week reiterated calls for more support to increase production and lower the cost of so-called 
sustainable fuels, which are significantly less polluting than kerosene. 
European airlines have historically struggled with profitability amid thin margins, leaving them limited capital to 
invest on decarbonisation, Spohr said.
Still, the industry is enjoying a strong run amid high ticket prices, and European airlines are forecast by trade body 
Iata to post a combined $5.1bn net profit this year, having lost more than $45bn during the pandemic. 
Wopke Hoekstra, the EU’s new climate commissioner, has also backed plans to phase out fossil fuel support 
schemes although there is “no guarantee on the outcome”, one EU official said. 
But O’Leary dismissed the Dutch push to phase out fossil fuel subsidies, which for airlines include exemptions on 
kerosene tax and VAT for passenger transport, as a “wish list”.
An EU proposal to update energy rules in 2019, which aimed to remove many fossil fuel subsidies, has stalled as it 
requires unanimous approval from all 27 member states, which it is unlikely to get.
EU ministers are due to discuss support for fossil fuels on Monday as part of negotiations ahead of  the UN COP28 
climate summit in December.
The Dutch government has been among the toughest in Europe on airlines as it tries to cut carbon emissions to 
meet its target of achieving net zero by 2050.
In January, The Hague increased air passenger duty and in February introduced a cap on the number of flights 
permitted at Amsterdam Schiphol airport, the Netherlands’ largest. 
Other European countries, including Ireland, Austria and Denmark, have all indicated support for the subsidy 
phaseout plan, according to an official close to the talks. 
Jetten acknowledged that some sectors would have “to pay extra in energy taxes in the upcoming years — and it 
makes total sense because they’ve been using [fossil fuels] for extremely low prices for a very long time and we 
need to change that”.
Additional reporting by Andy Bounds in Brussels
Load-Date: October 18, 2023
End of Document
EasyJet to buy new planes and restart dividends after summer’s record profits
EasyJet to buy new planes and restart dividends after summer’s record 
profits
 
FT.com
October 12, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 632 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
EasyJet has struck a deal to expand its fleet through the purchase of more than 150 new aircraft and outlined plans 
to restart shareholder payouts following record profits over the summer.
The UK-based airline on Thursday announced a deal with Airbus for 157 new short-haul aircraft for delivery from 
2029, alongside purchase rights for a further 100 in an agreement worth $19.9bn, although airlines typically 
negotiate substantial discounts. 
It brings the total number of planes it has on order to 315 by 2034 and follows a forecast for record pre-tax profits of 
between £850mn and £870mn for the six months between April and September.
“This will enable easyJet’s fleet modernisation and growth to continue . . . while providing substantial benefits 
including cost efficiencies and sustainability improvements,” said chief executive Johan Lundgren. 
The airline made the announcement as it forecast pre-tax profit of between £440mn and £460mn for the financial 
year ending in September.
EasyJet shares fell 4 per cent to 419p by lunchtime in London as investors remained sceptical over the company’s 
profit targets. 
EasyJet to buy new planes and restart dividends after summer’s record profits
The company’s shares have lagged behind many of its rivals, declining 14 per cent over the past six months despite 
strong profitability over the summer and confident outlooks from management. 
“EasyJet believes it has a road to much higher profitability than the street does,” Bernstein analyst Alex Irving said. 
The new plane orders will allow  easyJet to replace older aircraft with larger and more fuel-efficient models, and 
promote “disciplined growth” over the next decade, the company said. 
EasyJet joins a growing list of airlines placing orders with Airbus and Boeing to fuel growth over the next decade 
and beyond. 
Ryanair signed a deal to buy more than 300 Boeing planes earlier this year, while Air India announced an  order for 
470 planes from Airbus and Boeing, one of the biggest aviation orders in history. 
But the booming order book has led to supply chain problems and left manufacturers struggling to deliver aircraft to 
their customers.
EasyJet said it expected supply chain bottlenecks at Airbus and Boeing to continue into the 2030s, and that it 
needed to place an order now to “ensure a supply of future delivery slots”.
The deal follows a  landmark order with Airbus signed in 2022, which saw the airline’s largest shareholder and 
founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou drop his long-running opposition to ordering new aircraft. 
EasyJet on Thursday also became one of the first major European airlines to announce the resumption of 
shareholder payouts following the Covid-19 pandemic, in one of the clearest signals that the industry has put the 
crisis behind it. 
In a full-year trading update, the company said it planned to pay shareholders 10 per cent of 2023’s profit after tax, 
with the first payouts expected early next year. 
Lundgren also laid out new targets for the business, including reaching pre-tax profit of £1bn in the “medium term”. 
“This will be driven by reducing winter losses, upgauging [upgrading] our fleet and growing easyJet holidays,” he 
said. 
Looking to demand for the start of the seasonally slower winter period, easyJet forecast a 13 per cent year-on-year 
rise in flight capacity for the final three months of this calendar year, at higher prices. 
Signs of healthy demand for flying will be welcomed, as the industry faces questions over whether the travel boom 
is sustainable. 
Analysts at Goodbody said easyJet’s full-year numbers were “slightly below” consensus, while its guidance for the 
current quarter “remains largely unchanged”. 
“This may be a slight disappointment to shorter term investors. However, the reintroduction of the dividend, the new 
medium-term targets and the new aircraft order should be welcomed,” the analysts said.
Load-Date: October 12, 2023
End of Document
Major airlines halt flights to Israel after Hamas incursion
Major airlines halt flights to Israel after Hamas incursion
 
FT.com
October 9, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 433 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London and Steff Chávez in New York
Body
Several major airlines have suspended flights to Israel following the outbreak of conflict with Hamas.
Cathay Pacific, Ryanair and Lufthansa were among the airlines to suspend flights after warnings from air safety 
agencies that carriers should exercise caution when flying into Israeli airspace. 
US carriers American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and United Airlines also cancelled flights following warnings that 
disruption could last at least all week. 
United’s operations in Tel Aviv were suspended “until conditions allow them to resume”, according to a person 
familiar with the airline’s plans.
The EU Aviation Safety Agency issued a Conflict Zone Information Bulletin for Israel’s airspace and recommended 
airlines “ensure that a robust risk assessment is in place together with a high level of contingency planning for their 
operations”. 
In the US, the Federal Aviation Administration said “operators are advised to exercise caution”. 
However, Ben Gurion International Airport near Tel Aviv, Israel’s main hub, remained open and several major 
carriers were still operating flights on Monday. 
British Airways said it would “continue to monitor the situation in Israel very closely” but would run flights with some 
adjusted departure times.
Major airlines halt flights to Israel after Hamas incursion
Ben Gurion International was the second-most disrupted in the world on Monday, according to flight tracking site 
FlightAware. More than 100 flights into or out of the airport were cancelled, accounting for more than a third of its 
traffic. 
The head of the organisation representing pilots at American Airlines said carriers should not fly into Israel. 
“After careful consideration, I am directing all pilots to cease flight operations to Israel until we can be reasonably 
assured of the region’s safety and security,” Allied Pilots Association president Ed Sicher said on Sunday. 
Airline shares fell on both sides of the Atlantic on Monday as the price of oil, one of the industry’s biggest costs, 
rose. 
United and Delta were both down 6 per cent by late morning in New York, while American was 5 per cent lower. 
Shares of Wizz Air, easyJet and BA-owner IAG all fell 6 per cent by late afternoon in London. Brent crude, the 
benchmark oil price, rose 4 per cent to $87.80 a barrel. 
European airlines typically hedge a portion of their future fuel requirements to protect them from short-term swings 
in the oil price, in contrast to most US airlines, which do not. Only Southwest Airlines and Alaska Airlines hedge fuel 
in the US.
The rising cost of fuel has already weighed on airline shares this year and triggered a wave of profit warnings from 
US carriers. 
Load-Date: October 9, 2023
End of Document
Scandinavian airline SAS wipes out shareholders as part of rescue deal
Scandinavian airline SAS wipes out shareholders as part of rescue deal
 
FT.com
October 3, 2023 Tuesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 510 words
Byline: Richard Milne, Nordic and Baltic Correspondent
Body
Scandinavian airline SAS is wiping out existing shareholders as part of a rescue deal that involves bigger rival Air 
France-KLM and private equity firm Castlelake becoming new investors alongside the Danish state.
The long-struggling  airline said on Tuesday that it would receive $475mn in new equity and $700mn in convertible 
debt as part of the deal, taking it off the stock exchange with no payment to current shareholders and little to 
bondholders.
Castlelake will become the biggest shareholder with a 32 per cent stake as well as a majority owner of the 
convertible debt. Air France-KLM would own 20 per cent, while the Danish government — the sole Scandinavian 
nation still invested in the airline — would own 26 per cent.
The Swedish government’s stake will be wiped out under the proposed deal, which SAS said did not need approval 
of existing shareholders.
The airline will move from its current Star Alliance group to Air France-KLM’s SkyTeam as part of a transaction that 
it hopes will finally take it out of Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection after more than a year.
“This is a significant achievement of our transformation plan, SAS Forward,” said chair Carsten Dilling. He added 
that securing new capital should help “facilitate our emergence from the US Chapter 11 process”.
Alex Irving, analyst at Bernstein, said SAS had missed out by not being part of a large network or global joint 
venture and so had been left as a “subscale airline”. 
Scandinavian airline SAS wipes out shareholders as part of rescue deal
He added: “Following Air France’s own remarkable turnaround, can it work the same magic on another group long 
challenged by restrictive unions and with low margins?”
SAS has struggled for more than a decade with high costs and weak profitability and filed for  bankruptcy protection 
last July in the US as it sought new owners after the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent stop in much of global 
travel pushed it over the edge.
The Norwegian government had already sold out of SAS and the Swedish state indicated it would put in no fresh 
money, leaving Denmark alone of the three countries that founded the airline in 1946.
The latest deal in the airline industry shows how legacy carriers in Europe are consolidating around three players: 
Franco-Dutch Air France-KLM, Germany’s Lufthansa and Anglo-Spanish IAG.
The traditional airline industry has struggled to fight off the threat of low-cost airlines such as Ryanair, Wizz Air and 
in SAS’s own backyard Norwegian Air. 
The latter came out of bankruptcy protection two years ago, after trying to crack the lucrative transatlantic market 
before throwing in the towel.
Benjamin Smith, chief executive of Air France-KLM, which paid $145mn for its stake and some convertible debt, 
said: “Air France-KLM looks forward to establishing strong commercial ties with SAS.
“With its well-established position in Scandinavia and strong brand, SAS offers tremendous potential to Air France-
KLM.”
Hybrid bondholders in SAS should expect a “modest recovery”, the airline said, while unsecured creditors would 
receive between 5 per cent and 20 per cent of the nominal value of their claims.
Load-Date: October 3, 2023
End of Document
Travel sector braces for difficult winter as summer boom fades
Travel sector braces for difficult winter as summer boom fades
 
FT.com
September 29, 2023 Friday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 936 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Oliver Barnes in London
Body
The travel industry has reaped the rewards of a frantic summer season, with airlines reporting record profits and 
hotels on both sides of the Atlantic having returned to near pre-pandemic occupancy.
But it is now facing an uncertain winter and questions over whether the insatiable demand for holidays can 
withstand persistently high inflation and economic stagnation, or is a post-pandemic bubble waiting to burst.
Most senior executives, particularly in Europe, are confident that consumer spending on travel appears immune to 
the cost of living crisis. But some cracks are appearing to show across the Atlantic, where the first signs of 
weakening demand have appeared in the domestic market.
Low-cost airline Spirit said it had turned to “steep discounting” as it issued a profit warning this month, while JetBlue 
reported a “shift away” from domestic travel in August. 
More optimistic executives say travellers are swapping domestic breaks for foreign holidays, and an influx of US 
tourists certainly boosted Europe’s tourist industry this summer. 
But as domestic trips in the US were one of the first parts of the travel industry to restart during the pandemic, there 
are also fears this slowdown could be an early warning that peoples’ broader desire for travel is wilting. 
In Europe, Michael O’Leary, chief executive of the continent’s largest airline Ryanair, remains “cautious” despite 
strong winter bookings that are 3-4 per cent ahead of where they were last year.
Travel sector braces for difficult winter as summer boom fades
“I am worried about the state of consumer confidence . . . you have higher interest rates, higher mortgage payments 
and energy prices,” he said. 
O’Leary expects to have to cut prices to fill planes during quieter periods as the industry becomes more “peaky”, 
and for overall fares to fall by “low single digits” this winter. 
Sébastien Bazin, chief executive of hotel giant Accor, agrees that the industry is braced for a “diminishing in pricing 
power”. The French company has offset occupancy levels that are 4 per cent lower than before the pandemic by 
raising prices 10 per cent. 
“With interest rates the way they are and what we’ve seen with inflation the way it is, the discretionary income of 
consumers is going to be far less, but we’ve planned for that,” said Bazin. Accor now expects more normal growth 
in revenues per available room of 2.5-5 per cent a year, he added, “because of pressure on the middle class 
population”. 
For most though, serious cracks are yet to appear. As of mid-September, booked occupancy for hotels worldwide in 
the fourth quarter is 11 per cent ahead of the same time last year, according to travel technology platform 
Amadeus. 
Revenue per available room, an important industry metric, for the year to the end of August stands at $116, just 
under the 2019 average of $117 but well ahead of $99 for 2022. 
Dana Dunne, chief executive of eDreams ODIGEO, one of Europe’s largest online travel agents, believes talk of a 
post-pandemic travel “bubble” that could burst is misplaced. 
He said the industry had returned to “normal travel patterns”, with the to and fro of seasonality and quieter winters 
returning, but no sign of a collapse in demand. “It looks absolutely fine,” he said. 
The return of Chinese tourists to overseas destinations should also provide a welcome uplift for the travel sector. 
Before the pandemic there were 170mn outbound Chinese tourists but by the end of this year there will only be 
about 70mn border crossings from mainland China, according to projections by the China Outbound Tourism 
Research Institute. 
“The Chinese can’t get out of China right now because there’s no flight capacity . . . so the international market 
hasn’t healed there yet,” said Bill Heinecke, chief of Thai-headquartered hotel group Minor International. “This will 
begin to improve by the end of the year.”
The future of leisure travel is particularly important because of lingering questions over corporate travel, which has 
been slower to recover. 
Airline Virgin Atlantic is expecting a “strong” final quarter of the year, with passenger numbers up 14 per cent year 
on year as it focuses on “winter sun” destinations with the launch of new routes to Dubai, the Maldives and the 
Turks & Caicos islands. 
London-listed tour operator On The Beach Group reported winter bookings 26 per cent ahead of 2022-23 in a 
reassuring investor update this year, while passenger bookings at P&O Ferries going into the winter are also up 
more than 30 per cent on last year. 
For airlines, the questions over winter demand have come as fuel costs have risen sharply, meaning strong 
demand for travel is key to being able to pass on the costs to consumers through higher ticket prices. 
Chris Tarry, an aviation consultant, said the industry was still enjoying “excess demand” post-pandemic, but once 
this cools “economic factors” will again drive companies’ fortunes. 
Stocks in the sector have taken a recent battering, with MSCI’s Global Airlines Index down a fifth since mid-July and 
40 per cent below its pre-pandemic levels. 
Travel sector braces for difficult winter as summer boom fades
The industry is typically seen as cyclical and exposed to the global economy and investors have never bought into 
the recovery story, with share prices of most major carriers still below their pre-pandemic levels. 
“Airline shares are not in vogue,” analysts at Barclays said in a recent note. 
Yet Dunne believes investors are wrong to tie the industry’s fortunes to the global economy. “I completely disagree 
with the thesis, historically it is dead wrong,” he said. 
“A year ago some investors would have been telling you ‘oh it’s really bad, people won’t travel’,” he said. “And that 
just wasn’t the case”. 
Load-Date: September 29, 2023
End of Document
Portugal puts national airline TAP up for sale
Portugal puts national airline TAP up for sale
 
FT.com
September 28, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 569 words
Byline: Barney Jopson in Madrid, Sérgio Aníbal in Lisbon and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Portugal’s national carrier TAP has been put up for sale by the government in a move that opens the way for more 
airline consolidation and a potential bidding war involving British Airways owner IAG and Air France-KLM.
Fernando Medina, Portugal’s finance minister, said on Thursday that the cabinet had approved the privatisation of 
the airline — which is wholly owned by the government — and that at least 51 per cent of its shares would be sold.
TAP, which is estimated to be worth around €1bn and swung back into profit last year, is emerging from years of 
trouble that have included near bankruptcy, a government bailout and scandals.
Its sale would represent a new stage of consolidation in Europe’s airline industry, which has been accelerated by 
the pandemic. 
The region’s three major airline groups, IAG, Air France-KLM and Lufthansa, have each said they are looking for 
acquisitions and expressed interest in TAP, which would open up the increasingly lucrative South American market.
“We see the takeover of TAP as being part of the ongoing consolidation that [is] playing out in Europe with the end 
game likely being three large network carriers and Ryanair,” said Mark Simpson, aviation analyst at Goodbody.
Luis Gallego, IAG’s chief executive, said in Lisbon on Wednesday: “We’ll have to study the process [of privatisation] 
and carefully consider the details, but we feel optimistic and believe that TAP can become another success story 
within IAG.”
Portugal puts national airline TAP up for sale
IAG earlier this year agreed a deal to buy  Spain’s Air Europa, while  Lufthansa bought Italy’s ITA, the successor to 
the defunct Alitalia. 
On TAP, Medina said: “There are interested airlines and their interest is public, which we welcome as a positive 
sign for the success of this operation.”
He also noted TAP’s “privileged connections” to the Portuguese-speaking countries Brazil, Angola and 
Mozambique.
TAP ended a protracted run of losses and returned to the black in 2022 with a profit of €66mn.
The Portuguese government left open the option of selling 100 per cent of its TAP shares, but also said up to 5 per 
cent would be reserved for employees of the company.
It said it was looking for “an investor of scale” from the airline sector that would ensure the company’s growth, the 
development of Lisbon as a hub, and make the most of underutilised airports, notably Porto. Medina said: “We are 
not going to privatise TAP simply with the highest bidder.”
TAP was last privatised in 2015 but the collapse of air travel during the pandemic brought it to the brink of failure. 
The government chose to save it in June 2020 via a nationalisation plan approved by the European Commission. 
The rescue aid totalled €3.2bn of loans and loan guarantees and led to a forced restructuring.
More recently, TAP has been at the centre of controversy that led to the departure of former chief executive 
Christine Ourmières-Widener and infrastructure minister Pedro Nuno Santos among others.
Ourmières-Widener, a former Air France executive, was fired by the government in March in the wake of a scandal 
over an irregular severance payment to a former board member. She has called the sacking “illegal”, said she had 
“always acted with total transparency” and this month filed a lawsuit for compensation.
Along with the main TAP airline, the sale will include Portugália, a small business that does short-haul flights, as 
well as a catering company and a health services company.
Load-Date: September 28, 2023
End of Document
Gatwick cancels more than 160 flights because of ATC staff shortages
Gatwick cancels more than 160 flights because of ATC staff shortages
 
FT.com
September 25, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 360 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Gatwick airport has been forced to cancel more than 160 flights and impose a cap on its operations for the rest of 
the week because of air traffic control staff shortages.
London’s second-busiest airport on Monday said it would impose a restriction of 800 flights per day for the rest of 
the week because of sickness and other “staffing constraints” in its control tower. 
The  airport said it would be forced to cancel 164 flights because of the unusual cap, but said it hoped to avoid last-
minute cancellations and delays for passengers as a result. 
“This has been a difficult decision but the action we have taken today means our airlines can fly reliable flight 
programmes,” said Stewart Wingate, Gatwick’s chief executive. 
 Gatwick subcontracts operations in its control tower to NATS, the UK’s main air traffic manager. NATS said 30 per 
cent of its staff were unavailable “for a variety of medical reasons”, including Covid-19.
“Given the levels of sickness we have experienced over the last few weeks, we believe it is the responsible thing to 
do to limit the number of flights this week,” NATS said. 
The air traffic management group has been struggling with staff shortages for much of the summer, and has also 
been under scrutiny since a technical failure in its systems caused the  cancellation of hundreds of flights across the 
UK during the late August bank holiday. 
Gatwick cancels more than 160 flights because of ATC staff shortages
More than one-quarter of inbound and outbound UK flights were cancelled and many more delayed, after air traffic 
controllers restricted the number of aircraft arriving at and leaving UK airports because of the glitch. 
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary has called for the dismissal of the head of NATS, Martin Rolfe, while 
easyJet boss Johan Lundgren has criticised the “persistent” staff shortages that have “let down customers all 
summer”. 
NATS said it was training new controllers “as fast as possible” but it took nine months to train even experienced 
staff to work at Gatwick because of its complex airspace. 
“Our operational resilience in the tower will improve as our staff return to work and we move out of the summer 
schedule, which is particularly busy at Gatwick,” it said.
Load-Date: September 25, 2023
End of Document
Rome to probe Ryanair ’s selling practices in escalating row
Rome to probe Ryanair’s selling practices in escalating row
 
FT.com
September 20, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 462 words
Byline: Amy Kazmin in Rome and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Italy’s competition watchdog is to probe Ryanair over alleged abuse of its market power, widening the ambit of the 
clash between Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni’s government and the Irish budget carrier.
The investigation is focusing on  Ryanair’s efforts to sell non-aviation services on its booking platform, the watchdog 
said in a statement on Wednesday. The authority has received complaints since May that the Irish airline is taking 
advantage of its “dominant position” to “extend its market power” by offering travel-related services such as hotels 
and rental cars on its ticket-selling platform, it said.
A preliminary assessment had indicated that Ryanair’s business tactics — which include discouraging consumers 
from purchasing airline tickets through travel agencies — are “harming travel agencies, both online and offline, as 
well as clients that buy from such agencies,” the authority added. 
Ryanair is embroiled in a  long-running row with Europe’s largest online travel agents, including Booking.com and 
Expedia, and has called on all passengers to book through its own website. 
Ryanair said it “welcomed” the investigation, and expected the findings to “make it clear to passengers that they 
should book directly” with the airline rather than with online travel agents. 
The investigation comes a day after Rome scrapped controversial plans to  cap ticket prices on routes from Italy’s 
mainland to the islands of Sicily and Sardinia, after ticket prices surged more than 70 per cent during this summer’s 
holiday rush.
Rome to probe Ryanair ’s selling practices in escalating row
Industry minister Adolfo Urso said Rome was instead giving enhanced powers to the competition authority to 
monitor pricing trends, and to intervene if they felt that prices had jumped too high.
The proposal to cap prices had provoked an uproar among European airlines. Trade body Airlines 4 Europe sent a 
formal protest to Brussels, while companies’ executives questioned how the measure — which was supposed to be 
based on past average prices — would work in practice. 
Ryanair called the proposed price caps “illegal” and announced it was cutting down its winter flight schedule flights 
to Sardinia in response.
The new antitrust investigation into Ryanair’s selling practices comes at a time as airlines increasingly seek to 
“upsell” extra products — such as car rentals, hotel rooms and travel insurance — to customers through their 
booking platforms.
Airline industry executives see potential to significantly boost revenue through such sales, as ever more 
sophisticated booking systems tailor personalised offers to customers.
A 2019 McKinsey report estimated that the industry could raise revenues by 4 per cent by 2030 — or $40bn 
annually — by embracing “modern retailing” of in-flight extras such as seat selection and non-flight products.
Load-Date: September 21, 2023
End of Document
Meloni government retreats on plan to cap some internal air fares
Meloni government retreats on plan to cap some internal air fares
 
FT.com
September 20, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 493 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London and Giuliana Ricozzi in Rome
Body
Italy’s government has pulled back from a plan to cap air fares on certain routes, instead giving the country’s 
competition authority new powers to police ticket prices following fierce resistance from airlines. 
Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni’s government outlined a decree last month for  price caps on flights between 
mainland Italy and the islands of Sicily and Sardinia after ticket prices soared this summer.
But industry minister Adolfo Urso said on Tuesday the  government would submit an amendment that will scrap the 
original plan to cap fares during the high season at 200 per cent of average prices. Instead, Urso said the 
government would give “specific and greater powers” to the country’s competition and transportation authorities to 
monitor air fares on certain routes and to intervene if they consider that prices have jumped too high during peak 
periods or unforeseen events such as natural disasters. 
“There won’t be a ceiling, but the reference to +200 per cent remains, as an indicative element . . . so that the 
competition authority can take action, if it considers it [necessary],” Urso said. The changes would “overcome the 
obstacles” in the original plan and “achieve the same goal” of controlling high air fares, he said.
On Wednesday, Italy’s competition watchdog  announced a probe into Europe’s largest airline Ryanair over alleged 
abuse of its market power, widening the clash between Meloni’s government and the Irish budget carrier which 
described the original price caps as “illegal” under EU law.
Meloni government retreats on plan to cap some internal air fares
Airline bosses had also questioned how the price caps would work in practice, including how the government would 
define an “average” fare in an era of algorithmic pricing that regularly changes according to supply and demand. 
The announced changes represent the latest apparent policy U-turn after the Meloni government partially 
backtracked on a bank windfall tax that spooked markets and  drew criticism from the European Central Bank. 
Airlines for Europe (A4E), a trade group, initially welcomed signs that the government was rowing back from a hard 
price cap. 
But on Wednesday it said the new powers for the competition authority “would still interfere with the freedom for 
airlines to set prices guaranteed under EU law”.
“We’d urge the Italian government to ensure any new proposal respects EU rules and maintains the single market 
which has served consumers so well for three decades,” A4E said. 
The trade body had written to the European Commission and called on Brussels to step into the row to protect 
competition in the single market. 
The focus on air fares comes as ticket prices have risen sharply this year, with high demand for travel after the 
Covid-19 pandemic coming amid a shortage of aircraft. Airlines have also been passing on their own higher costs to 
consumers, including fuel and labour. 
Rome said last month that ticket prices for flights between the mainland and Sicily and Sardinia had risen 70 per 
cent.
Load-Date: September 20, 2023
End of Document
UK aviation regulator to review failure of air traffic control system
UK aviation regulator to review failure of air traffic control system
 
FT.com
September 6, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 728 words
Byline: Sylvia Pfeifer and Leke Oso Alabi in London
Body
Britain’s aviation regulator will launch an independent review into the failure of the air traffic control system over the 
August bank holiday that grounded hundreds of aircraft and left thousands of passengers stranded.
The review by the  Civil Aviation Authority comes after an interim report by the National Air Traffic Services found 
that a “logic error” occurred after a part of its system incorrectly processed a flight plan from an airline that was due 
to fly over UK airspace. 
As airlines stepped up calls for their costs to be covered, Nats said  the failure was a “one in 15mn event”. The 
agency described it as “an extremely rare set of circumstances presented by a flight plan that included two 
identically named, but separate waypoint markers outside of UK airspace”.
The outage on August 28 was the worst in more than a decade and led to the cancellation of over  1,500 flights on 
the day, with more on subsequent days as airlines tried to recover their schedules. 
Tim Alderslade, chief executive of industry body Airlines UK, said carriers were “seeking clarity on what options 
exist for Nats to cover our costs under the current legislation”. 
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, criticised the interim report as a “whitewash” and claimed that it 
downplayed the impact of the outage on the industry. He said the disruption had left the low-cost airline with a bill of 
between £15mn and £20mn in passenger refunds. 
UK aviation regulator to review failure of air traffic control system
Nats said it stood by its report, which detailed the sequence of events that started when the agency received 
information about a flight due to cross the UK’s airspace later that day. 
Airlines have to submit flight plans detailing their routes and timings to air traffic controllers in order to minimise the 
risk of mid-air collisions, including waypoints or markers along the route. 
According to the report, Nats’ software found the entry point into UK airspace for the airline but was unable to find 
the exit point when it looked for it. 
The system then searched for the next nearest waypoint and found one, but it was a duplicate identifier to a 
waypoint earlier in the flight plan. The two identical waypoints were approximately 4,000 nautical miles apart. 
Unable to generate a UK flight plan, the primary system passed the information to the back-up system. This 
responded in the same way, shutting down almost instantly and forcing Nats flight controllers to enter flight data 
information manually. 
“This incident was caused by a specific flight plan,” said Nats chief executive Martin Rolfe. “That flight plan that the 
airline entered was not faulty . . . However, it presented data to our systems that had never been seen before and it 
did it in a way that generated a logic error due to the software processing.
“The airline submitted a perfectly compliant flight plan into their systems; it was our system that didn’t process the 
flight plan properly.”
Rolfe declined to provide further information on the flight “because it isn’t pertinent to the problem”.
Nats stressed that at no point was air safety compromised and that a similar scenario had never been encountered 
by the system during the five years it had been in service. Over that time, the system has processed more than 
15mn flight plans. 
Nats — a public-private partnership owned by a group of airlines, including British Airways and easyJet, pension 
funds and the UK government — said it had implemented a solution to avoid any possible recurrence. 
It is also working with the manufacturer of the software, Austria’s Frequentis, a specialist in providing safety-critical 
communication solutions, to enact further updates over the coming days.
The CAA review will consider issues raised by the failure, as well as the response to the incident by Nats. The 
regulator will set up a review panel led by an independent chair with the aim of reporting to transport secretary Mark 
Harper within three months.
Rob Bishton, joint interim chief executive of the CAA, said that if “there is evidence to suggest Nats may have 
breached its statutory and licensing obligations we will consider whether any further action is necessary”. 
Harper welcomed Nats’ confirmation that there had been no safety issues. The independent review, he added, 
would “dig deeper into this event and understand whether there are any further steps to be taken to improve the 
resilience” of the system.
Load-Date: September 6, 2023
End of Document
UK air traffic control fault fixed but hundreds of flights still affected
UK air traffic control fault fixed but hundreds of flights still affected
 
FT.com
August 28, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 660 words
Byline: Daniel Thomas and Jim Pickard
Body
Thousands of airline passengers faced long delays and flight cancellations at the end of the busy summer bank 
holiday weekend after a lengthy failure in the UK’s air traffic control system on Monday grounded hundreds of 
aircraft.
National Air Traffic Services (Nats) said it had identified and remedied a “technical issue” that hit its ability to 
automatically process flight plans, but the knock-on effects were set to cause continued disruption to services as 
airlines and  airports scrambled to reorganise flights this week. 
The problem severely restricted the number of aircraft allowed to land and take-off across the country as Nats was 
forced to input flight plans manually during the outage.
The chaos came on one of the busiest days of the year, with holidaymakers returning to the UK on the final day of 
the bank holiday weekend, days before the new school year begins. 
Thousands of passengers were faced with hours-long delays stuck in crowded departure halls, including families 
with children unable to return home, some having to rebook for another day. Others were trapped on planes on the 
tarmac awaiting further information about whether their flights would be able to take off.
The delays unleashed a torrent of frustrated posts on social media from stranded travellers. Chris McLaughlin, the 
former co-chair of the UK Spaceflight Safety and Regulatory Council, wrote: “Bank Holiday Monday and where 
UK air traffic control fault fixed but hundreds of flights still affected
better to be than the BA Lounge at Heathrow. Air Traffic Failure over UK and my flight pushed to late afternoon — 
maybe.”
London  Heathrow, the UK’s busiest airport, said the disruption had affected services across the country. It said 
schedules would “remain significantly disrupted for the rest of the day” even though the problem had been fixed, 
and passengers should check their flights were still operating before leaving for the airport.
British Airways said its schedule had been “severely disrupted” and warned it would have to make “significant 
changes” to its timetable. It said passengers on short-haul services should check the status of their flights.
John Strickland, an aviation analyst, said “hundreds of thousands” of passengers would be affected by the problem. 
He said the disruption would likely spill into the next few days as  airlines rearranged their planes and flight crews.
“It’s an enormous problem given the complexity on what should be a gold-mine period for UK airlines,” he added, 
warning of the financial impact on airlines of having to rebook passengers and reorganise their schedules.
Ryanair warned the problems were affecting “all airlines operating to and from the UK today” and said it would delay 
or cancel “a number of flights” as a result.
The system failure was one of the worst problems to hit Nats in recent years, which have included computer 
glitches and radar display issues. Nats said it would continue to work closely with airlines and airports to manage 
the flights affected as efficiently as possible. “Our engineers will be carefully monitoring the system’s performance 
as we return to normal operations,” it added.
While the system failure affected all flights into and out of British airports Nats said UK airspace had remained open 
throughout. 
Data provider Cirium said 232 flights have been cancelled departing UK airports as of Monday afternoon, equivalent 
to about 8 per cent of all departures. It said that it had identified 271 arriving flights that had also been cancelled. 
But it warned many more aircraft had been delayed.
Lisa Webb, of Which, the consumer group, said: “Today’s chaos will be a source of extreme anxiety for hundreds 
of thousands of travellers trying to return home or fly out of the UK after the bank holiday weekend.”
Eurocontrol, the organisation that oversees air traffic management for Europe, said the failure related to the UK’s 
“flight data processing system”, which is critical in helping air traffic controllers and airlines share real-time 
information on flight plans.
Load-Date: August 28, 2023
End of Document
Norwegian /Fredriksen: shares lack lift even with lighter debt payload
Norwegian/Fredriksen: shares lack lift even with lighter debt payload
 
FT.com
August 24, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 371 words
Body
Norway-born shipping magnate John Fredriksen has form in using debt to fund growth. With Norwegian Air Shuttle 
he has done the opposite, injecting much-needed equity from 2019 onward to clean up a messy balance sheet. His 
Geveran Trading has since become the top shareholder, with a 11.9 per cent holding.
Tossing out the debt baggage got the low-cost carrier off the ground again. Unfortunately, the market has a clear 
fear of flying Norwegian.
 Second-quarter results highlighted the recovery since a forced restructuring in 2021, including talk of a dividend. 
Net debt at June was NKr3.7bn ($345mn), just over half expected ebitda. Compare that with NKr58bn it held in 
2019. 
Four years on, after a painful debt restructuring and plenty more equity from Fredriksen, a boom in air travel has 
produced a quarterly operating profit of NKr538mn. Ignore last year’s NKr2bn refund of jet prepayments by Boeing, 
and that turns round a loss. 
Direction of travel matters more. Norwegian garnered about a tenth more passengers in the second quarter than 
last year at 5.6mn. Strong bookings this summer and into October augur well. Norwegian may be able pass on any 
cost inflation that boosted revenues. 
Norwegian is not just soaring on powerful updrafts. It aims to grow its dominant Nordic position, just as rival 
Sweden’s SAS copes with its own bankruptcy. Norwegian last month agreed to acquire local short-haul airline 
Widerøe for NKr1.1bn. Price-killer Ryanair has taken note, opening a new base in Copenhagen for flights into 
Europe.
Norwegian /Fredriksen: shares lack lift even with lighter debt payload
Two years after the restructuring Fredriksen might have hoped for a better return. The share price has gone 
nowhere. Most of Europe’s airlines look cheap these days, and Norwegian more so. On an enterprise value just two 
times forward ebitda, the stock trades about a third below peers. A bounce in oil prices since June has hurt airline 
stocks.
A long-promised travel boom has finally materialised. But investors have chosen to visit other sectors instead.
Ever wondered How to be a Lex analyst? Join Lex writers at 3pm at the FTWeekend Festival on Saturday 
September 2. We will share tips and hacks for private investors. The venue is Kenwood House Gardens, 
Hampstead Heath. You can buy tickets  here.
Load-Date: August 24, 2023
End of Document
Italy is flying in the wrong direction with price cap plans
Italy is flying in the wrong direction with price cap plans
 
FT.com
August 24, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 721 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger
Body
Just mention the words Italy and price cap and the blood pressure at Ryanair’s head office shoots off the scale. 
That happened last week when I tried to talk to the airline’s chief executive Eddie Wilson about Italy’s recent 
proposal to cap fares from mainland Italy to Sicily and Sardinia at 200 per cent above the annual average, and to 
limit the use of “profiling algorithms” to set prices.
“They think we have algorithms that mean I can tell which people have iPhones and we charge them more. 
Rubbish,” he said, in one of his calmer moments. Airfares “are built on demand. If flights aren’t moving we lower 
fares.” The implication was that, obviously, the reverse must be true if demand exceeds supply.
Airfares have risen substantially in the post-Covid era, up 30 per cent this summer in Europe versus last year.  
Airlines complain of a scarcity of aircraft and labour, as well as higher fuel costs, even as they report bumper profits 
thanks to increased fares. But the industry’s net margins this year are still only forecast to hit 1.2 per cent. 
So if  Italy’s prime minister Giorgia Meloni thinks a cap on prices is the way to lower the fares of trips to the summer 
hotspots of Sicily and Sardinia, she is mistaken — and not just because such a move could contravene EU law. 
Any price cap will almost certainly lead to higher fares across the year. Why would any airline offer rock-bottom 
prices out of season — when locals may be the main passengers — if they only drag down the average and, by 
extension, their ability to price according to demand in peak season? Yes, they want to fill the aircraft in the winter 
Italy is flying in the wrong direction with price cap plans
months. But the frequency of flights can be scaled back and extra aircraft used on other routes to drive those prices 
higher. 
Italy’s move to limit profiling algorithms also presumes that the aviation industry is more technologically 
sophisticated than it really is. “Most airlines run on systems that were designed in the stone age of technology,” 
says Anand Krishnan, chief executive of IBS Software, a leading supplier to airlines. 
Essentially, carriers divide a flight into “buckets” of seats with different fares, based on expected demand and what 
the competition is doing. When one bucket sells out, customers are directed to the next one. 
But as many airlines sell a large proportion of their tickets through global distribution systems, they usually don’t 
know who a passenger is, what their spending power might be, and what might push them to buy. As a result, they 
are often left with empty seats. “Your biggest opportunity to maximise revenue is to sell all the seats and then sell 
things beyond the seat,” says Krishnan. “The right call might have been to make that sale at $150 instead of $200.”
Very few airlines are remotely close to having the intelligence required to personalise pricing for those not in their 
loyalty programmes. 
Nor is artificial intelligence the answer. “Even if [the airlines] could dynamically create a price point for you, their 
revenue management, accounting and invoicing systems cannot cope with anything close to the complexity 
required,” Krishnan adds. 
Instead, airlines have resorted to unbundling the fare into its constituent parts — the seats, luggage, boarding 
priority, etc — asking passengers to pay for what suits their needs. They are also trying to sell a host of extra 
services, from cars to insurance to holidays, forcing travellers to wade through page after page of marketing. 
“It’s a dilemma because you have to maximise revenues in a competitive arena,” says Andrea Giuricin, transport 
economist. “But it means you are making it more difficult for the customer.” 
That strategy has driven suspicion that airlines are charging more and delivering less. According to a recent survey 
by the UK consumer right group, Which?, bankers are more trusted than airlines. In the US, a Gallup poll last year 
found that for the first time in a decade, more passengers had a negative view of the industry than positive. 
Meloni’s government may be cynically tapping into this general discontent to win a few headlines with measures 
that ministers know are impossible to implement. But the initiative would not feel like a vote winner if airlines 
understood their passengers in the first place — and were able to deliver a better service.
peggy.hollinger@ft.com
Load-Date: August 24, 2023
End of Document
Europe’s airlines clash with Italian premier over planned fare cap
Europe’s airlines clash with Italian premier over planned fare cap
 
FT.com
August 15, 2023 Tuesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 574 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London, Silvia Sciorilli Borrelli in Milan and Ian Johnston in Brussels
Body
Airlines have called on the European Commission to step into a row over the Italian government’s plan to cap air 
fares on certain routes, the latest clash between Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni and the corporate world. 
In addition to a  surprise windfall tax on banks, Meloni’s rightwing government last week outlined plans for price 
caps on flights between mainland Italy and its islands of Sicily and Sardinia after ticket prices soared 70 per cent on 
those routes. 
Airlines have responded furiously to Meloni’s proposals, which represent an unusual attempt to cap fares.
Trade body Airlines for Europe (A4E) called on Brussels “to clarify with Italy that this intervention impacts the free 
and deregulated air transport market in Europe”, according to a letter seen by the Financial Times.
“We are strongly concerned that if this law is adopted, it could set a precedent and lead to a domino effect resulting 
in similar regulations being adopted in other EU member states,” A4E managing director Ourania Georgoutsakou 
wrote. 
Capping fares on these routes would “violate” the rights of airlines “to compete wherever possible, set prices and 
define services as they see fit”, Georgoutsakou said. 
Under the Italian plan, airfares during the high season would be capped at 200 per cent of average prices while the 
use of “profiling algorithms” that may impact prices would also be limited, according to a statement from the prime 
minister’s office. 
Europe’s airlines clash with Italian premier over planned fare cap
Ryanair, Europe’s largest airline, described Italy’s plans as “illegal” under EU law. The low-cost carrier said the 
intervention would “have unintended consequences” of raising air fares in the long run by reducing flight and 
passenger numbers. 
The commission said last week that it was seeking clarifications from Rome, adding that price capping was rarely 
an effective means of achieving affordable prices.
“The commission supports measures to promote connectivity at an affordable price in line with EU internal market 
rules,” said Adalbert Jahnz, a commission spokesperson. “Sustainable competition with free price setting is usually 
the best guarantor of affordable prices in the EU’s highly successful and liberalised transport market.” 
Legislation on the European air travel market allows for price regulation to and from remote regions “only in specific 
cases . . . to ensure both territorial connectivity and affordability”, he added.
Contacted on Monday, the commission said it would “assess the compatibility with EU law of any measure taken”.
Italian officials have blamed the media for “inflating” the issue and said it was normal for the government to make 
sure prices did not rise excessively between the mainland and its islands. People close to industry minister Adolfo 
Urso said the measures were “in line with European law”. 
Airlines have long argued that the liberalisation of the European skies has benefited passengers by increasing 
connectivity and largely driving down air fares through competition. 
Yet ticket prices have risen sharply — by as much as 30 per cent across Europe this year,  according to estimates 
by airports — as companies cash in on booming demand for leisure travel following the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The bounceback in demand for flying has come amid a shortage of aircraft and as airlines pass on elevated costs, 
including labour and fuel. 
Italian officials said Urso would meet airline representatives and industry associations to discuss the matter in 
September.
Load-Date: August 15, 2023
End of Document
‘This isn’t fun!’ — when holiday dreams turn to nightmares
‘This isn’t fun!’ — when holiday dreams turn to nightmares
 
FT.com
August 11, 2023 Friday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 3497 words
Byline: FT writers
Body
Lucy Kellaway
FT contributing editor and co-founder of Now Teach
In the photograph I am sitting on a low wall wearing shorts and looking sunburned. On my knee is my daughter, 
who must have been about one, which means the year was 1992. We are somewhere in Tuscany and we are on 
holiday.
I’m not smiling — which isn’t surprising, given everything. We had gone away with various couples with young 
children and had rented a villa where the rooms were dark and the walls thin. All night the babies cried — as soon 
as one stopped another started up. Every morning frazzled adults dithered inconclusively over plans for that day, so 
by the time we arrived at Cortona or San Gimignano the heat was intolerable, as were the crowds of other foolish 
English people.  
In the evening we did competitive cooking by rota and when it was my turn I laboured over a lasagne — my 
technique disparaged by the Italian villa owner, who had popped by to see if we were making a mess (we were). By 
the time our friends’ children were finally in bed it was 10pm, the lasagne was desiccated and the adults not quite 
drunk enough not to notice. Someone raised the subject of Maastricht and suddenly they were all shouting at each 
other. I wanted to shout too: I don’t give a crap about Maastricht! This isn’t fun! I hate all of you! I want to go home!  
‘This isn’t fun!’ — when holiday dreams turn to nightmares
It wasn’t the worst holiday ever. But it was thoroughly unenjoyable in a way that should have been predictable. Why 
had I agreed to go away with other families for two whole weeks? Why did I think Tuscany would be nice in August 
when half the metropolitan elite from London would also be there? 
Although I often dislike holidays when I’m on them, I love the idea of going away as much as the next person. 
According to a recent survey, half the British adults questioned said they lived for their holidays. A third did jobs 
they hated in order to have money for a holiday that would give them a short break from the hatefulness. Most 
bizarre of all, a third said that of all the terrible things about Covid, not being able to fly off abroad was one of the 
worst.
What is this magic allure of a holiday that we can’t do without? For me it’s two things: rest and escape. Yet 60 
years’ experience tell me how hard either is to achieve; my best chance of finding them is going somewhere familiar 
and quiet that I can reach by car. There is no rest queueing for Ryanair flights at Luton or fighting for the last hire 
car at midnight at some boiling European airport. 
Being in a strange place also seems to invite mishaps and involve a disproportionate number of brushes with the 
emergency services. There was one holiday when our hire car skidded and flipped over and, although no one was 
hurt, there was endless argy bargy with the fire brigade. Twice we had all our luggage nicked, leading to waits in 
foreign police stations and at the embassy to get new passports. There was a visit to a French hospital when I had 
been bitten by a dog and needed a rabies shot, and untold trips to strange doctors in search of antibiotics. 
Wherever there is a swimming pool there is a miserable child with an ear infection.
Although tiresome, these things alone can’t ruin a holiday. If it is otherwise enjoyable you can forgive unrestful 
interludes as being part of the adventure. 
What is unforgivable is when a holiday fails to provide any escape. For me this is the central flaw in every planned 
getaway — there is no location far-flung enough to offer escape from yourself. Wherever I go my failings, moods 
and thoughts come along uninvited. Neither is there any escape from the family and friends you are travelling with 
as holiday means 24-hour confinement in a way that real life never does. 
This was the undoing of that Tuscan holiday. It was nothing to do with heat or sleep deprivation. It was the fact that 
otherwise serviceable friendships broke under the strain of enforced proximity.
By far the worst holiday of my life was on a Greek island with my husband and children. The Aegean Sea lapped 
the sand just below the veranda of the simple house we’d rented. We swam in the pale turquoise water and read 
books and ate in a pretty taverna where the retsina was cold and the feta salty. Yet the perfection of the 
surroundings provided no balm for a marriage that was in trouble; instead it shone a spotlight on the extent of the 
dysfunction. Never have I longed so passionately for a holiday to be over so I could escape to the restful routine of 
everyday life.
Every morning this summer from 6am I can distantly hear the planes taking off at Newcastle airport. Every five 
minutes another couple of hundred people who have been living and saving for this break hurtle over my house 
towards their roasting hells in Corfu, Faro and Menorca. 
From the cool peace of my own bed I hope they are not too disappointed, they don’t fall out with family and friends 
and they return renewed. This year, at least, I won’t be going with them.
Martin Wolf
FT chief economics commentator
In the summer of 1956, when I was just about to be 10, I went with my parents, my brother and a friend on what 
turned out to be my worst ever holiday. It was to Loch Lomond in Scotland. 
‘This isn’t fun!’ — when holiday dreams turn to nightmares
The place was beautiful. But, alas, it rained incessantly. When the rain temporarily cleared, I, my mother, my 
younger brother (then nine years old) and my friend went on a walk into the hills. My father had returned to work in 
London. 
We left the cottage in the late afternoon. After some time walking, we became separated somehow. I remained with 
my mother, while my brother and my friend went on ahead — and disappeared.
My mother, with me in tow, tried to find the two missing boys. But the area was far too large. Whether they heard 
our cries and ignored them or were too far away to hear, we did not know.
After some time, my increasingly worried mother decided to go back. She also must have hoped that the two boys 
had found their way home. We got back to the cottage at about 6pm. But there was still no sign of them. 
By now, my poor mother was frantic and called the police. Then it got dark. Finally, at about 10pm, the two boys 
turned up.
My infuriated mother hit my brother, which she normally never did. Why, she demanded, had they separated? He 
explained that he had been trying to get to the top, but each ridge opened up a view to the next one. 
After that frightening episode, my mother kept us close to her. Most of the time we were stuck in the cottage as the 
rain poured down. Finally, almost at the end of the holiday, we had a bright, sunny day and decided to swim. The 
water was cold, but refreshing. But I cut my foot on a sharp stone. It bled freely.
My parents decided that the British Isles were not for summer holidays. Next summer, they found a flat in Bocca di 
Magra, a village on the coast of Liguria, in north-west Italy. In the years that followed, my parents rented a flat there, 
and then, when I became a parent, I rented one with my brother and now we own one of our own in the same 
village.
Our worst holiday led to our best one, and many more after it.
Stephen Bush
FT columnist and associate editor
When I was 20, I had two plans for the money I had earned selling bad food at Legoland. The first was to visit my 
grandfather in Zambia, and the second was to go Interrailing in Europe. My cunning plan to do so involved taking a 
cut-price route to Kenneth Kaunda International, Lusaka’s main airport. There are no direct flights from the UK to 
Zambia, but the usual route involves a journey to one of Africa’s hub airports — usually in Nairobi or Johannesburg. 
However, mystifyingly, it was cheaper — albeit more destructive to the planet — to fly from London to Amsterdam 
to Dubai before arriving in Nairobi. 
The journey there, and the time with my grandfather, went off without a hitch. But my selfishness had clearly 
angered the planet, and my journey back was disrupted by the eruption of the Icelandic volcano Eyjafjallajökull, 
which began to ground flights back to Europe as my return flight was halfway to Nairobi. I had a choice: stay in 
Nairobi for an indefinite period, head to Dubai for an indefinite period or try to make my way back to Europe by any 
available means. I went for option C, which in the end meant a flight to Egypt, a flight from Cairo to Rome, and from 
Rome a series of trains and coaches to the ferry at Caen in France. 
Travelling while mixed-race is, well, mixed. At best, everyone thinks you’re local: I was greeted as café au lait in 
France, caramello in Italy, and, to my surprise, as Egyptian in Cairo. But at worst, everyone thinks you’re from 
whatever the local out-group is: I was abused as Algerian in Egypt and France, and curiously as Eritrean in Italy. I 
travelled in empty carriages through winding Italian countryside, in a sweltering coach from Milan, and on a ferry 
that smelt overwhelmingly of stag do from Caen. By the end, I had used almost all of my nest egg. I suppose, in a 
sense, I did get to go Interrailing — but not quite in the way I wanted. 
‘This isn’t fun!’ — when holiday dreams turn to nightmares
Bryce Elder
FT City Editor, Alphaville
The low point was when I threw a paper plane at Pete Tong.
This was 2007. I’d been made redundant and was a few months away from becoming a father. My partner insisted I 
make the most of the freedom, since it would never happen again, but I was broke and lost. My last grasp at being 
carefree had a travel and accommodation budget of £250.
Several bad decisions later I checked into the cheapest room in the cheapest casino in downtown Las Vegas. The 
idea was to write something.  
But two weeks alone in Vegas is too much. Everything about its immersive artificiality is designed to mainline vices 
and, not being much of a gambler, I drank. Each day I’d walk to a different bar, write a sentence or two about the 
fraud at the heart of the American dream, and drink bourbon until being asked to leave.
The evening before my flight home, in a back room of the MGM Grand, the British DJ Pete Tong was playing. In my 
maudlin state I decided that he was a beacon of authenticity in this vacuous place and needed urgently to let him 
know, but casino goons blocked all routes to his booth. So I wrote a musical request in my notebook — the kind of 
obscure, serious tune that would signal he had an ally in the room — tore out the page, folded it into a dart and 
threw it at his head.
The invitation to leave was unusually forceful. And now, whenever I catch myself reminiscing about life before 
responsibility, the memory of being ejected on to the Strip, having nearly taken out Pete Tong’s eye, is a useful 
corrective.
Lilah Raptopoulos
Host of FT Weekend podcast
My family is not an adventure travel family, but one year, we convinced ourselves to take the vacation of our lives: 
Guatemala. I was 18 and my sisters were 26 and 30, all of us single. It felt like maybe our last chance at a nuclear-
family holiday. 
My mother planned the trip for months. There were volcanic hikes, scenic car rides, cooking classes, biking tours, 
maybe a zip line? We packed. We bought adaptors and new digital cameras. The night before our flight, around 
8pm, my sister called. In four small words, the dream slipped through our fingers. “Guys, my passport expired.” It 
slipped through our fingers and straight down a well.
My mother spent that night on the phone, cancelling everything. She booked a last-minute trip to Florida to replace 
it, renting an old couple’s timeshare in a retirement village. I remember us all meeting at the airport the next day. 
There was a long pause, and my sister looked at us and said, “Sorry, guys”, and we laughed with rage.
I don’t remember many details of the trip to Florida. I’m sure it was perfectly fine. The condo had decorative shells 
and pastel art. We probably ate at a few versions of the Joe’s Crab Shack franchise. I also, strangely, hold a 
memory that my mind invented of the trip that never was: our family, joyfully zip-lining over a Guatemalan rainforest.
It’s been 15 years. Guatemala has travel warnings, my sisters have kids, and we’ll probably never go. But every 
once in a while, my other sister still turns to me, and whispers, “We should have just gone. We should have sent her 
to the passport office and gone on that fucking trip.”
Tim Hayward
FT food critic and restaurateur
‘This isn’t fun!’ — when holiday dreams turn to nightmares
I’m on holiday at the moment and, as Englishmen abroad must, reading Dante’s TheDivine Comedy. It’s remarkable 
how current it remains. I did not know that the eighth circle of Hell comprised 10 concentric ditches or bolgias, each 
assigned to a subset of the fraudulent. Bolgias for panderers, corrupt politicians, counsellors of fraud and even one 
for simoniacs — those who sold favours and offices. This prescient 14th-century genius had foreseen Boris 
Johnson, Andrew Tate and almost any other contemporary sinner. But even he would have had to dig down to 
extend. He’d have had to have built a whole 10th basement circle for the people who equip the kitchens in holiday 
rentals.
I am in the charming southern French town of Uzès. Wine country. Honeyed stone baking in 30C heat. Food writer 
Elizabeth David came down here in her declining years, took a flat overlooking the twice-weekly market in the Place 
aux Herbes. Me? I get to stuff my bags with the finest produce and return to a kitchen where there are two blunt 
ceramic knives. How, you scream, can ceramic knives be blunt? Simple . . . stick a sharpening steel in the block 
next to them and watch a hundred frustrated holidaymakers send sparks showering into the night.
These look like they’ve been used to open bloody tins. Which is a distinct possibility, as there are relics of an 
electric can opener in the bottom drawer, keeping part of a wand blender and a wok lid company.
A few years ago I got caught trying to smuggle my own knives on to the “Boden Express” — the London to Avignon 
train. Is it just, I ask you, that because I’m particular about julienning carrots, I should still be on a terrorist watchlist?
Airbnb has upped the game of shark rentiers. Everything looks great for the website. Stacks of fresh ecru towels on 
every beige surface. Fresh off-white paint. Also three incomplete coffeemakers, eight opened pots of paprika, three 
half-empty bottles of organic olive oil and a tub of Vegemite in a bedside drawer. There is one napkin/tea-towel 
curated to match the table linen rather than for absorbency. The crap oven has a pass-agg little note taped to it 
saying that if I sully its interior, I will incur a €100 cleaning surcharge as “the cleaners are very busy”. I want to heat 
up a tian, not puke in a cab.
Last night, in front of my own family, I did the trick of getting the cork out of a wine bottle with a wall and a deck 
shoe. I haven’t done that since art college and hoped I’d never need to again. But then, I believed that when I was a 
grown-up, there would always be a corkscrew that worked. 
Not four that didn’t.
Robert Armstrong
FT US financial commentator
Starting a family? Remember this phrase: “It’s not a vacation; it’s a family trip.” I can’t remember what hardened 
veteran of the parenting wars passed this mantra on to my wife and me, but it proved a crucial support as we raised 
our twins. It’s not that small children make your holidays hell. The hell comes as a result of believing, in the face of 
all experience and evidence, that you, parent of small children, get a holiday at all.
What you get, instead, is a family trip. One primary family trip activity, as all parents know, is touring the emergency 
rooms of sunny destinations. Do you know how ear infection treatment protocols vary, regionally and 
internationally? 
I do, and you, parent-to-be, will soon know it, too. And ear infections are low on the family trip illness difficulty scale. 
I will not soon forget the trip on which both of my children, aged two or three, got hand-foot-and-mouth disease, a 
nightmare of screaming, Popsicles and pink antibiotic liquid. 
On family trips, as on vacation, you go and see the sights. But one does not do this because the sights are worth 
seeing. One does it because it tires out the children and fills the hours before it is appropriate for the adults to drink 
heavily. If you start to drink early in the day, who will drive to the ER?
My wife and I used to consolidate our family trips with those of her brother and sister-in-law and their three children. 
The idea, I think, was that there were economies of scale in child care. This may have been true. But, in retrospect, 
‘This isn’t fun!’ — when holiday dreams turn to nightmares
I suspect these benefits were outweighed by the fact that the ability of children to get into greater mischief as their 
numbers increase is not additive but multiplicative. 
I remember a family trip to Wales when four of the children went running straight for a seaside cliff, the drop-off 
invisible until the last moment. Only last-second hysterical screaming by the fifth child stopped the worst from 
happening. All four parents — watching the whole thing, helpless, from several hundred yards away — suffered 
simultaneous nervous breakdowns. 
Best of luck hiring local child care. I remember leaving the kids on the third floor of the Airbnb with two babysitters, 
almost ready to head out for dinner. Then our niece, 18 months old, came tumbling down the winding staircase 
towards the concrete floor of the front hallway. Her father just managed to stop her on the last step. We decided to 
stay in and let the hire-a-nannies go. 
Why, in those early years, did we attempt holidays at all? That’s easy. Making a chaotic, filthy, deafening home life 
seem normal was worth the price of the plane tickets.
Jemima Kelly
FT columnist
Our five-and-a-half-hour bus ride from Kigali to Bujumbura had been going just fine until a man at the front, who 
was late for work, asked the driver to speed up. I had even begun to enjoy the journey, now that we had got over 
the Rwandan border into Burundi, had entered lush rainforest, and were making good progress towards our beach 
retreat. 
We would be staying in a hut looking across to the Democratic Republic of Congo at the edge of Lake Tanganyika, 
which I had been excited to discover we would be sharing with the famous Gustave, a 20-foot, 2,000-pound 
crocodile rumoured to have killed as many as 300 people.
The problem was that the driver, who had seemed in good spirits until this point, did not appear to appreciate being 
asked to speed up — not one bit, in fact. He seemed somehow offended by the request. We watched in horror from 
the back of the bus as his demeanour turned to rage: gesticulations, shouting, and then foot flat on the gas. 
“Buhoro, buhoro! [slow down, slow down!]” my sister shrieked in her best Kinyarwanda as we barrelled round a 
blind corner. But this, unfortunately, only served to wind the driver up further, and he seemed to want to show us: 
keeping his pedal to the metal he now lifted his hands off the steering wheel and threw them in the air. I gripped the 
back of the seat in front of me as we ploughed through a village, terrified mothers grabbing their children out of the 
way of the careering bus. 
We arrived at the Bujumbura bus station with legs of jelly and dripping sweat, to be greeted by swarms of 
mosquitoes and ominous thunder clouds. I spent the next four days looking out for Gustave, reading about the 
horrors that King Leopold of Belgium brought to what is now the DRC, and thinking a lot about our journey back to 
Kigali.
Madison Darbyshire
FT US INVESTMENT CORRESPONDENT
I have one superstition, and it is that Rome is where relationships go to die. 
My relationship perished there, on a romantic mini break. But it became a superstition when friends would tell me: I 
just had “your” trip to Rome. Meaning, they went to Rome and returned with a smouldering husk of a romance. 
The trouble with Rome is that it is a city designed to be in love in. And when you’re not in love, it feels obvious. 
‘This isn’t fun!’ — when holiday dreams turn to nightmares
When all you have to do is wander through piazzas and gaze at cathedrals, eat four gelatos a day and languish 
over marathon meals, it is apparent when you’ve run out of things to talk about beyond what you can see. 
The sound of forks scraping spaghetti from plates felt desolate as we discussed the couples at other tables — a 
lifetime away from when he had kissed me outside a hectic train station at midnight, and we could have been the 
only two people in the world. 
At dinner on our final evening, he took me to a restaurant where he had celebrated his birthday the year before. We 
had the same waitress, they exchanged witty repartee in Italian that I didn’t need to understand to understand. They 
looked so cute together. He made her belly-laugh. I found myself wishing he would have the courage to ask for her 
number. It simultaneously occurred to me that this is not what you are supposed to want for the man you are 
dating. 
Find out about our latest stories first — follow  @ftweekend on Twitter
Letters in response to this article:
 Hard to arrange holiday tip /  From Murray Planidin, London W7, UK
 When holidays are hell for parenting grandparents /  From Ludwig von Reiche, Berlin, Germany
Load-Date: August 28, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair : online agents unlikely to win verification face-off
Ryanair: online agents unlikely to win verification face-off
 
FT.com
August 10, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 339 words
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary has used a few choice words to talk about online travel agents (OTAs) in the past.  
Describing them as “pirates” is among the more repeatable.
Equally unflattering adjectives may have flown around Ryanair’s offices on Thursday after a group of OTAs  urged 
UK regulators to investigate the airline’s handling of data belonging to passengers who do not book directly through 
its website. Yet the OTA challenge could easily backfire.
OTAs including Booking.com claim that passengers who book indirectly for Ryanair flights must undertake a 
complex identification process to manage their reservation or check in online. This can include facial recognition. 
The process is “invasive”, they claim. 
Ryanair counters that OTAs sometimes do not pass on customers’ correct email addresses and says it must 
communicate directly with customers in the event of disruptions.
O’Leary has plenty of grievances to raise against OTAs in retaliation for this attack. These include claims that some 
package Ryanair flights with hotels and other services and then  overcharge for its fares. He has already urged 
regulators to probe the market. 
But Ryanair has also long wanted to cut out any middlemen. It estimates that about 10 per cent of passengers book 
indirectly. If it achieves passenger forecasts this year, that would equate to more than 18mn people.
Customers who book directly are better-placed to buy “ancillary services”. These range from food to travel 
insurance. In the year ending in March, such sales accounted for 36 per cent of Ryanair’s €10.78bn of revenue. 
Ryanair : online agents unlikely to win verification face-off
They help to smooth finances in years when fares are lowered or costs rise. Ryanair forecasts that costs, excluding 
fuel, will increase by about 6 per cent this year.
The concerns OTAs have that the identification processes will make customers reluctant to book with them are 
valid. But even if regulators intervene, much of the damage may already have been done. Travel-weary passengers 
try to avoid repeating previous bad experiences, regardless of fault. 
Load-Date: August 15, 2023
End of Document
Online booking agents turn up heat in long-running Ryanair battle
Online booking agents turn up heat in long-running Ryanair battle
 
FT.com
August 10, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 602 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Long-running tensions between Europe’s biggest online travel companies and  Ryanair are rising after the booking 
agents called on UK regulators to investigate the low-cost carrier’s data requirements for passengers who do not 
book directly through its website.
A group of companies including Booking.com, Expedia and Skyscanner wrote to the UK government and regulators 
on Wednesday to raise concerns over Ryanair’s “invasive, unnecessary and unfair” treatment of customers. 
In the letter to government agencies including the Civil Aviation Authority and Information Commissioner’s Office, 
the companies said Ryanair forces many customers booking through third-party websites to hand over significant 
personal information in a complex process, including facial verification, in order to manage their booking or check-in 
online. 
“Ryanair may be breaching UK data protection rules which require data collection to be necessary and kept to a 
minimum, which is clearly not the case with these additional checks,” the companies said in a letter, seen by the 
Financial Times.
The online travel companies said they “assumed” Ryanair’s “real motivation” for the checks, which are only applied 
to customers booking with travel agents, is to push passengers into booking directly with the airline the next time 
they travel. 
Online booking agents turn up heat in long-running Ryanair battle
Ryanair said its goal is “solely to be able to communicate with passengers directly . . . in order to comply with our 
legal obligations and to allow passengers to correct their contact details so that we can meet any customer needs 
that may arise”. 
The airline said it does not have access to customers’ email addresses or payment details if they book through an 
online agent. This then forces the airline to verify their identities in compliance with regulatory protocols. 
Ryanair added that its business model is “dependent” on direct online sales to customers, and that “many” online 
travel agents “mis-sell” its flights, including adding mark-ups such as inflated baggage or seat fees. 
The claim and counter claim are the latest in a battle between Europe’s largest airline and some of the region’s 
leading online booking agents.
Ryanair has long criticised third-party booking companies for preventing it from dealing directly with customers and 
has called on all passengers to book through its own website. 
Low-cost airlines prefer to deal with customers directly as they can sell them extra services — from car hire to seat 
bookings and luggage space — during the booking process. 
These “ancillary” revenues are of critical importance to Ryanair’s business model, which is based on offering 
passengers the cheapest possible fare and charging for extras. The airline made €1.18bn from ancillaries in its 
most recent quarter, a third of its overall revenue. 
The online travel companies said no other airline requires customers to go through these checks and they had seen 
“significantly increased communication from customers affected by this issue after booking Ryanair flights with 
them”. 
“Consumers are being caused undue stress and uncertainty over their travel plans during the peak summer period,” 
the companies said in the letter. 
The ICO, the independent regulatory body for data protection, said it “recognised the concerns raised” over 
Ryanair’s collection of data, as well as “the stress and uncertainty experienced by customers worried about their 
travel plans.”
“We will consider the issues raised in the letter and will be making inquiries with Ryanair,” the agency said. 
The CAA and Competition and Markets Authority said they were in contact with each other and the ICO over the 
matter.
Load-Date: August 10, 2023
End of Document
Russia ’s war on Ukraine holds still more pain for European business
Russia’s war on Ukraine holds still more pain for European business
 
FT.com
August 9, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 738 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger
Body
When historians come to write about the lasting impacts of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, they should leaf through 
the annual reports of European companies. 
The Financial Times  reported last Sunday that Europe’s biggest businesses had so far taken a direct hit of more 
than €100bn to profits as a result of quitting or scaling back their Russian operations. In fact, this is merely a 
fraction of the true cost.
Of the 609 annual reports and financial statements we examined, 176 companies took one-off charges. But even in 
the statements of the 433 that took no charges, almost all mentioned the punishing hit to profits of either soaring 
energy and raw material prices or supply chain disruptions that followed Russia’s aggression last year. Many also 
mentioned a notable increase in cyber attacks. Others said consumers were moving away from environmentally 
sustainable products to save money at a time of record inflation.
Some were comprehensive in their descriptions. Dutch supermarket group Ahold Delhaize spoke of “rising costs 
across the value chain . . . supply chain delays and labour shortages”. These developments had hit “balance sheet 
valuations, results and cash flow. Increasing interest rates mainly impacts the Company’s lease liabilities, pension 
obligations and self-insurance provision, and rising prices increases pressure on the profit margins”. In other words, 
hardly a corner of the business was left untouched.
Quantifying the actual cost of those indirect impacts is almost impossible. But a few companies — especially those 
with little or no presence in Russia — tried to explain just how extensive the damage was. 
Russia ’s war on Ukraine holds still more pain for European business
Saint-Gobain, the building materials group, said it had suffered a year-on-year rise of about €3bn in energy and raw 
materials costs as a result of the conflict. 
Telia, the Swedish telecoms company, said its energy costs had risen by SKr800mn ($74.5mn) in 2022. Ryanair 
estimated it would lose up to 2mn passengers in 2023 as a result of cancelling all flights to and from  Ukraine. 
And Georg Fischer, the Swiss piping company, noted that the war had caused energy prices to rise by 100 per cent 
in 2022; an increase of just 25 per cent in its energy bill would result in about SFr17mn ($19.4mn) in extra costs, 
constituting “a critical financial impact”. 
None of these companies declared any one-off charges or impairments in their annual reports. But it is clear that 
the impact on many European businesses of Russia’s aggression will be deeper and longer-lasting than the costs 
of quitting what was a relatively minor market. Russia accounted for just 3 per cent of the global turnover of the 
listed foreign companies present in the country before the war, according to the Kyiv School of Economics. 
Yet whether or not a business was present in Russia, many are now preparing for long-term volatility and 
uncertainty. Russia accounted for about a third of revenues at Technip Energies, the French energy services 
provider. While the group has been able to replace much of the lost income by focusing on new geographies, chief 
financial officer Bruno Vibert says management now has to be much more flexible and agile. The Russian 
experience has also raised questions about the risks in other markets, such as China.
“There is more unpredictability and volatility,” he says. “We have to come to grips in the near future with very 
difficult driving forces.” 
Meanwhile, those with well-known brands are realising that they remain exposed in other ways. “For most 
companies the value of the brand is bigger than the value of any Russia assets,” says Nabi Abdullaev, partner at 
strategic consultancy Control Risks. 
So what happens if their products are associated with senior Russian politicians or soldiers? Even if they have 
stopped supplying that market, well-known brands are still making their way to Russian shops through third-party 
importers. “If the media picks up on [President Vladimir] Putin using a western branded product, the damage to that 
company’s market value may be more than its Russian assets,” says Abdullaev. 
European companies have already taken a big hit to profits as a result of Russia’s invasion — and this is not the 
end of the story. Yet if Putin is to be stopped, this price must be paid. Successful businesses know how to adapt. It 
may be that the longest-lasting consequence of the war for European business will be to make it more efficient and 
competitive. 
Load-Date: December 8, 2023
End of Document
Sun, surf — and the politics of taking a holiday
Sun, surf — and the politics of taking a holiday
 
FT.com
August 6, 2023 Sunday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 697 words
Byline: Pilita Clark
Body
When I read last week that Britain’s prime minister, Rishi Sunak, was about to head off on his first proper family 
holiday in  four years, I felt a rush of incredulity.
Surely even the most dreary workaholic striver would have been able to get away at some point in that time.
Yes, it would have been impossible in the depths of the pandemic for Sunak, who became a Treasury minister in 
July 2019, chancellor in February 2020 and prime minister in October last year. 
And yes, I believe the press aide who  told reporters Sunak tried to take a break on a Spanish island after losing the 
Tory leadership contest to Liz Truss last year, but had to race back after about 15 hours when the Queen died. 
But still. Four years? Advertising this sort of family holiday failure is seriously odd, not least because it manages to 
invite both suspicion and resentment.
Plenty of people do not take as much vacation as they are entitled to or need. But that is because many can’t. They 
may live in a notorious no-vacation-nation such as the US, the  only advanced economy that does not guarantee 
workers paid holidays. 
Or they might have a manager who pressures them to keep working. Or they might be poor.
Sun, surf — and the politics of taking a holiday
Even in the relatively wealthy EU, 29 per cent of citizens could not afford a one week holiday away from home last 
year,  official data shows. That’s down from 40 per cent in 2013, so things are improving. But the  figure soars 
among the poorest, as it does outside the EU, and it’s not necessarily because people are retired or unemployed.
“I haven’t had a holiday for 13 years,” a British woman in her 50s with three low-paying jobs told  researchers 
studying the rise of in-work poverty before the pandemic. “In fact, if I can, I take annual leave so I can work 
somewhere else.”
The point here is not that Rishi Sunak is one of the  wealthiest prime ministers the UK has ever had. The more 
relevant fact is that, pandemic aside, he has considerably more freedom to go on a family holiday if he chooses 
than many of those he leads.
Of course, this assumes he actively wants to go on such a vacation. Many people do not. Margaret Thatcher was 
famously not fond of holidaying. Donald Trump has repeatedly claimed to be phenomenally  anti-vacation.
Michael O’Leary, the voluble chief executive of budget airline Ryanair, once told me he only went on family beach 
holidays because he had to, and could tolerate building sandcastles with the kids for precisely five minutes. “After 
that it’s, ‘Oh Jesus, will someone come and rescue me!’ I’m praying for a crisis.”
There is no great shame in this. A lot of successful leaders feel the same way. One long-running study by Harvard 
Business School academics of how chief executives of large companies spend their time, found they worked on  70 
per cent of their vacation days, for an average of more than two hours a day.
It would not be a massive shock if a renowned  micromanager such as Sunak, a former Goldman Sachs man with a 
reputation for workaholic tendencies, also struggled to switch off on a family break.
If he does, though, I’d rather he said so.
Instead, we are supposed to believe, in the words of his press  secretary, that “the PM believes that work-life 
balance is very important, particularly spending time with your family, especially if you have young kids”. But also, 
he is not necessarily “a good example of practising what you preach”.
As with much else about Rishi Sunak, it is difficult to know exactly what he thinks.
Still, I am glad he is finally going on a holiday, to California, with his wife and two young daughters, and I hope they 
all have an enjoyable time. This is not guaranteed. Politicians’ holidays often go badly. If they’re not being criticised 
for being too posh or too dull, they are interrupted by events back home.
With luck, that will not happen to Sunak this year and not just for his own sake. As a pandemic-scarred workforce 
reports rising levels of  burnout, he is setting an excellent, if belated, example. I hope it’s followed by many more 
like it. 
Letter in response to this article:
 Thatcher holiday aversion didn’t include Switzerland / From Robert Hopkins Former Editor, The Zug Post Müstair, 
Switzerland
Load-Date: August 18, 2023
End of Document
Wizz Air investors approve chief executive’s bonus package extension plan
Wizz Air investors approve chief executive’s bonus package extension plan
 
FT.com
August 2, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 438 words
Byline: Leke Oso Alabi in London
Body
Investors in Wizz Air approved plans to give the company’s chief executive an additional two years to unlock a 
bonus of £100mn, despite a sizeable opposition at the low-cost carrier’s annual meeting.
Almost 30 per cent of the airline’s free float was cast against a resolution to give József Váradi until 2028 to obtain 
the one-off award if Wizz Air’s share price hits £120. Shares were trading just under £24 on Wednesday.
The amendment was approved with 74 per cent of the eligible votes supporting the resolution. 
 Wizz Air said its board believed Váradi was “central to delivering [the airline’s] recovery in the coming years” and 
the changes to remuneration plans were “in the best interests of the company, its shareholders and other 
stakeholders”.
However, the proposal had encountered significant  opposition from proxy advisers prior to the meeting in 
Switzerland.
Institutional Shareholder Services said the plan was “not fully in line with UK good practice”, while Pirc said the 
plans were “highly excessive” and “not considered to be acceptable”. 
Pirc argued that a share price was “often outside the control of individual directors and is often more effected by 
larger market changes”. 
Wizz Air investors approve chief executive’s bonus package extension plan
Just under two-thirds of the votes at Wizz’s AGM in 2021 were cast in favour of the bonus scheme, with about a 
third voting against, despite criticism from shareholder advisory groups.
This was because the vote was open only to a small proportion of investors after the airline was forced to water 
down the voting rights of shareholders from outside the European Economic Area, in order to comply with EU rules 
around airline ownership following Brexit.
Wizz Air’s largest shareholder is US private equity firm Indigo Partners, which focuses on air transport and owns 24 
per cent of the company. Indigo’s founder William Franke has been chair of Wizz Air for almost two decades. 
The carrier had grown rapidly over the past five years, becoming one of the most significant companies in European 
aviation thanks to cheap fares made possible by an ultra-low cost business model. The airline was one of the first 
carriers to  recover to its pre-pandemic share price in late 2020, as investors backed its aggressive expansion plan. 
But its shares have halved since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine last year.
Wizz Air’s move follows that of Ryanair, which extended and adjusted the comparable package for its chief 
executive Michael O’Leary last year. Andrew Lobbenberg analyst at Barclays said Wizz Air’s move had the logic of 
following its lead rival, but Ryanair had also “included an increase to the target profit level required to trigger it”.
Load-Date: August 2, 2023
End of Document
British Airways owner IAG and Air France - KLM report record profits
British Airways owner IAG and Air France-KLM report record profits
 
FT.com
July 28, 2023 Friday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 509 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Sarah White in London
Body
IAG, the owner of British Airways, and Air France-KLM are the latest airline groups to report record profits as 
resilient demand for travel and high ticket prices have powered the industry’s recovery from the pandemic.
 IAG on Friday reported record operating profit before exceptional items of €1.25bn for the second quarter, the start 
of the peak summer season, more than quadruple the €295mn a year earlier.
The Anglo-Spanish company, which owns a clutch of airlines including Iberia and Aer Lingus, said demand for flying 
remained strong and reported “no sign of weakness in forward bookings”.
Rival  Air France-KLM meanwhile reported rising revenues and a record operating margin and profit in the second 
quarter, as passenger numbers increased and demand for long-haul flights rebounded.
The two full-service carriers followed  record earnings from budget airlines easyJet and Ryanair, underlining 
booming demand for travel in spite of the weak economic backdrop in Europe.
Airline revenues have also been boosted by passengers’ willingness to pay high ticket prices. Fares have risen as a 
result of airlines’ increased costs and elevated consumer demand amid an industry-wide shortage of planes. Airport 
trade body ACI Europe last month said ticket prices had risen 30 per cent year on year in Europe.
IAG said “very strong leisure demand” across all its airlines and cabins had offset a slower recovery for corporate 
travel and that it believed customers had “prioritised holidays and visiting friends and relatives”.
British Airways owner IAG and Air France - KLM report record profits
The airline group reported a 36 per cent year-on-year rise in passenger revenue in the second quarter to €6.7bn, 
even as passenger numbers rose more slowly, by 17 per cent.
The company did not change its outlook, last updated in May, of a full-year operating profit before exceptional items 
surpassing the €1.8bn-€2.3bn range.
The results beat market expectations, in part because of better than forecast passenger yields, analysts at 
Goodbody said.
Still, IAG conceded it had suffered some operational challenges this year, with British Airways “particularly affected” 
because of its exposure to London’s congested airspace and “complex schedule”.
“Some of our operations are not where we would want them to be and this is affecting our overall customer service,” 
IAG said.
Meanwhile, Air France-KLM said operating profit more than doubled to €733mn in the second quarter, a record.
Steven Zaat, the group’s chief financial officer, said its performance had also been driven by strong leisure traffic, 
including in premium cabins.
Like IAG, Air France-KLM reported no sign of a slowdown in demand, or ticket yields, into the second half of the 
year.
Revenues at Air France-KLM increased by 14 per cent from the second quarter of last year to €7.6bn, and the 
group’s operating margin reached 9.6 per cent, above a mid-term goal of 7-8 per cent. 
The group’s capacity in Asia and the Middle East increased in the second quarter compared with a year ago, as 
China reopened after Covid-19 lockdowns, but remained 34 per cent below 2019 levels, it said.
Load-Date: July 28, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair early summer profits nearly quadruple on higher prices and booming demand
Ryanair early summer profits nearly quadruple on higher prices and 
booming demand
 
FT.com
July 24, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 415 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Higher ticket prices and booming demand helped Ryanair post record profits at the start of the summer, but the low-
cost airline was forced to trim its passenger forecasts because of Boeing delivery delays and warned of an 
uncertain winter ahead.
Ryanair on Monday reported profit after tax of €663mn for the three months to the end of June, nearly four times 
higher than in the previous year and well above its previous record for the quarter of €397mn in 2017. 
The low-cost airline followed UK-listed easyJet in delivering record profits, as airlines cash in on strong demand and  
passengers’ willingness to pay higher air fares despite the weak European economy. 
 Ryanair said its year-on-year comparisons in the quarter were boosted by a strong Easter and an extra bank 
holiday in the UK, as well as a weaker performance in 2022 because of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.
Revenues increased 40 per cent to €3.65bn in the period, more than offsetting a 23 per cent rise in costs, thanks to 
higher fuel and staff bills. 
Average air fares rose 42 per cent year on year to €49, but Ryanair reported a “softening” of fares booked by 
people close to their time of travel in late June and July. It forecast fare rises would ease to “a low double-digit 
percentage” in the current quarter.
Ryanair early summer profits nearly quadruple on higher prices and booming demand
Chief executive Michael O’Leary said the airline had little visibility into travel demand heading into the winter, but 
added “consumers may require some fare stimulation . . . following months of rising mortgage rates and consumer 
price inflation”.
Ryanair bought 300 short-haul aircraft in a  $40bn deal with Boeing earlier this year, and has outlined ambitious 
plans to grow passenger numbers by more than a third to 300mn a year by 2034.
But the airline was on Monday forced to slightly trim its passenger forecasts for its financial year from 185mn to 
183.5mn, which it blamed on expected aircraft delivery delays from Boeing.
Chief financial officer Neil Sorahan said the delays were not Boeing’s fault, as he pointed to a strike in the 
manufacturer’s supply chain and logistical problems caused by the collapse of a rail bridge used to transport aircraft 
fuselages.
“I think there is a curse on them, they seem to be very unlucky,” Sorahan said. 
Sorahan added there had been no impact on bookings from the extreme heatwave across parts of southern 
Europe, including forest fires in Greece that have forced some airlines to launch emergency repatriation flights. 
“Weekend bookings were still very strong,” he said. 
Load-Date: July 24, 2023
End of Document
Repatriation flights begin for tourists stranded on Rhodes
Repatriation flights begin for tourists stranded on Rhodes
 
FT.com
July 24, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 550 words
Byline: Eleni Varvitsioti in Athens and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Airlines and travel operators put on special flights on Monday for tourists stranded by wildfires on Rhodes, even as 
some continued to carry new holidaymakers to unaffected parts of the Greek island.
Tui,  easyJet and Jet2 were on Monday organising a wave of repatriation flights to help fly home some of the 
estimated 10,000 British holidaymakers on the island. 
But despite the scramble to organise flights, travel industry executives played down the long-term impact of the fires 
and extreme weather in Europe this summer. Many airlines were still flying to Rhodes on Monday, and there have 
been no signs of a wider impact on summer bookings. 
The wildfires on Rhodes are among dozens authorities have been battling across the country.  Greece has had an 
average of about 50 new fires daily for the past 12 days. “We are facing a new reality,” said Pavlos Marinakis, a 
government spokesperson. 
Corfu, another popular destination with UK travellers, on Sunday issued its own evacuation order from some limited 
areas of the island. But the most difficult-to-contain fires have been on Rhodes. Tourists who were part of 
the largest ever  evacuation operation in Greece over the weekend were forced to spend the night in makeshift 
accommodation provided in schools, conference areas and public buildings.
Almost 1,500 passengers have already departed the island on special flights back to the UK, Germany and Italy, 
according to Marinakis.
Repatriation flights begin for tourists stranded on Rhodes
Holiday airline Jet2 and the UK airline easyJet both began operating repatriation flights on Sunday, with a further 
1,000 seats being made available to travellers on Monday. Both operators have also cancelled some planned flights 
going to Rhodes. 
Tour operator Tui said its first evacuated customers had landed back in the UK following overnight flights, as it 
cancelled flights leaving the UK for Rhodes until Friday. 
Still, Olga Kefalogianni, Greece’s tourism minister, encouraged people to continue flying to both islands. The 
affected areas in Rhodes account for just 10 per cent of the island’s hotels, according to a Greek official. 
Ryanair, Europe’s largest airline, said on Monday that it would continue with its scheduled flights to Rhodes and 
that its weekend bookings had been “very strong”. Chief financial officer Neil Sorahan said: “I think people have 
booked their holidays, and they are going to continue to take them.” 
Last week easyJet’s chief executive Johan Lundgren said the heatwave did “not seem to be a deterrent” to 
holidaymakers. “[Customers] have air conditioning and are by the pool, the UK forecast being quite unstable . . . is 
not unhelpful,” he said.
It is not unusual for Greece to be hit by wildfires during the summer months, but extreme temperatures have 
heightened the risk. Temperatures over the past days have surpassed 40C in many regions of Greece and the 
national meteorological service forecasts that the heat will persist in the coming days. 
Greece’s civil protection agency said that every region of the country was facing the threat of wildfires on Monday, 
ranging from “high, very high or state of alert”. 
In 2018, fires in a coastal town east of Athens killed 104 people in a matter of hours. The tragedy has scarred 
Greek authorities who are now evacuating early, sometimes to the frustration of residents and tourists. 
Load-Date: July 24, 2023
End of Document
Gatwick airport to be hit with strikes in peak summer travel season
Gatwick airport to be hit with strikes in peak summer travel season
 
FT.com
July 14, 2023 Friday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 523 words
Byline: Donato Paolo Mancini in London
Body
Almost 1,000 workers at London’s Gatwick airport will strike for eight days in July and August in a dispute over pay, 
putting at risk holidaymakers’ plans at the peak of the summer travel season. 
Unite the union  said on Friday that 950 ground staff would walk out between July 28 and August 1 and between 
August 4 and August 8, affecting airlines including British Airways, easyJet, Ryanair, Tui, WestJet and Wizz. 
 Gatwick, the UK’s second-busiest airport, is a major hub for flights to Europe and some intercontinental routes. 
Most schools in England close next week and demand for travel is expected to surge.
Unite said it had been in talks over pay with employers ASC, Menzies Aviation, GGS and DHL Services since 
January, but that all had “failed to make offers that meet the workers’ expectations”. 
The union told the Financial Times that ASC had offered a pay rise of 7.9 per cent for 2023 and an increase of 4 per 
cent in 2024. DHL offered 8.5 per cent for 2023, while GGS offered 10 per cent over three years alongside a 
productivity bonus of 2 per cent.
Menzies said it had offered a rise of 11 per cent for 2023. 
Dominic Rothwell, the union’s regional officer, said the stoppages would “inevitably cause severe delays, disruption 
and cancellations” but blamed the companies for declining to “make our members a fair pay offer”.
Gatwick airport to be hit with strikes in peak summer travel season
The move by staff at Gatwick comes weeks after more than 2,000 Unite members working as security staff at 
Heathrow called off a “summer of strife” after  agreeing a revised pay offer from the UK’s hub airport. 
Workers across the public and private sectors have staged a historic wave of industrial action since last year amid 
demands for higher pay to offset rising living costs. In a push to end some strikes, UK prime minister Rishi Sunak 
on Thursday announced an  increase of between 5 and 7 per cent for public sector employees for 2023-24. 
Unite is also balloting members for a separate walkout at three other Gatwick-based companies. It said voting was 
expected to close at the end of this month, and that workers could begin striking by mid-August.
Phil Lloyd, senior vice-president UK at Menzies Aviation, said it was in “continued discussions with airline partners” 
and had invited Unite to restart talks. 
“We will continue to work to pursue an agreeable solution to protect service to our airline and airport partners and 
their customers,” he added.
British Airways said its ground handling agent, GGS, was “surprised” by Unite’s announcement and “continuing to 
work with the union to resolve this issue as a matter of urgency so as not to disrupt . . . customers’ travel plans”. 
DHL said it was “disappointed” but continued “to work closely with Unite to reach a satisfactory conclusion for all 
parties”. 
Gatwick airport and ASC did not respond to requests for comment.
The airline industry has been hit by staff shortages after cuts made during the pandemic, with all parts of the sector, 
especially air traffic control, struggling to keep up with demand. 
EasyJet said on Monday that it had  cancelled 1,700 flights, mostly at Gatwick, because of “challenging conditions” 
in air traffic control.
Load-Date: July 14, 2023
End of Document
European airport boss calls for scrutiny of rising airfares
European airport boss calls for scrutiny of rising airfares
 
FT.com
June 28, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 452 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Transport Correspondent
Body
A senior European airport executive has called on regulators to scrutinise the cost of air fares following a surge in 
ticket prices this year. 
Olivier Jankovec, director-general of airport trade body ACI Europe, said ticket prices had risen 30 per cent year-on-
year in Europe and regulators should “monitor the level of air fares, and check whether there is no abuse of pricing 
power”.
Ticket prices have shot up despite the weak economic backdrop thanks to a combination of huge demand since the 
end of pandemic restrictions and a  shortage of aircraft. 
Jankovec said he was not asking for air fares to be capped, but that it was “legitimate” to question why many major 
airports had their landing fees capped while airlines were free to charge whatever they wanted.  
Regulators like the Civil Aviation Authority in the UK oversee consumer protection in the industry, including 
passenger rights during disruption.
The CAA has intervened when there have been problems like last summer’s travel chaos, and the delays to 
passenger refunds for cancelled flights during the pandemic.
But while national regulators can cap landing fees that airports are allowed to charge, they don’t have any role in 
setting airfares.
European airport boss calls for scrutiny of rising airfares
One executive at a European regulator said it would be “challenging” to control ticket prices.
Jankovec said airlines “continue to cry and whine” about airport landing charges, which are passed on to 
passengers through airfares, while “exerting massive pricing power” by raising ticket prices.
In response, trade group Airlines for Europe, which represents carriers including easyJet, Ryanair and British 
Airways, said competition among airlines has helped drive down air fares and “delivered affordable air travel for 
millions of European consumers”. 
“Ultimately, airports — especially larger ones — still function as natural monopolies, necessitating firm regulatory 
oversight to keep them in check,” it said. 
Airlines and airports have regularly clashed as the industry has recovered from the pandemic. 
 London’s Heathrow has been the site of the biggest rows, with airlines including British Airways and Virgin Atlantic 
leading a successful push to stop the airport raising its fees by 90 per cent following the pandemic. 
ACI Europe on Tuesday said Europe’s airports posted a combined net profit of €6.4bn in 2022, the industry’s first 
since 2019. But it said this had partly been achieved by companies “significantly” cutting capital investment. 
The industry body said the number of cities connected by air travel in Europe has fallen 16 per cent since 2019 as 
airlines have prioritised the busiest and most lucrative routes. This means “travellers from European airports 
continue to see fewer options”. 
Load-Date: June 28, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair dismisses chief pilot over ‘unacceptable behaviour’
Ryanair dismisses chief pilot over ‘unacceptable behaviour’
 
FT.com
June 14, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 394 words
Byline: Robert Wright in London
Body
Ryanair has dismissed the chief pilot of its main Irish-registered operations after an investigation uncovered a 
“pattern of repeated inappropriate and unacceptable behaviour” towards junior female pilots at the company.
A senior company insider said a note had been emailed to employees of Ryanair DAC, which operates the carrier’s 
Irish-registered aircraft, informing them that its chief pilot had been dismissed on Tuesday evening. 
The note, reviewed by the Financial Times, was signed by Ryanair’s chief people officer Darrell Hughes and did not 
name the person dismissed.
Ryanair DAC’s chief pilot for the past three years has been Aidan Murray. Murray could not immediately be reached 
for comment.
“The decision follows an investigation over recent days which identified a pattern of repeated inappropriate and 
unacceptable behaviour towards a number of junior female pilots, in breach of our harassment policy,” the note 
read. “We are determined to ensure all of our people come to work in a safe and secure environment.”
It asked recipients to respect the privacy of the “brave women who came forward to assist us in this investigation”.
An airline’s chief pilot flies relatively rarely and oversees the application of new safety rules, promotions and other 
organisational issues.
Ryanair dismisses chief pilot over ‘unacceptable behaviour’
The Ryanair insider, who has direct knowledge of the investigation, said it had been prompted by an anonymous 
tip-off and that the company had discovered the chief pilot sent inappropriately sexualised text messages to seven 
junior female pilots aged between 21 and 32. Some had been asked to send him explicit pictures of themselves, 
while several had their rosters altered so that they would fly with him.
About 40 per cent of Ryanair’s operations — including all the operations of aircraft based in Ireland, the UK, Spain 
and Portugal — use aircraft belonging to Ryanair DAC.
There have been no arrests or allegations of criminal wrongdoing in the case. 
Ryanair said it did not comment on queries relating to individual employees.
The insider said the company had checked with the women concerned whether they had received similar 
approaches from other senior male staff and none had reported any such issues.
The chief pilot has seven days following Tuesday’s dismissal to mount an appeal.
The Irish Aviation Authority said it did not comment on correspondence with “regulated entities”.
Load-Date: June 14, 2023
End of Document
Wizz Air expects return to profit after putting fuel hedging fiasco behind it
Wizz Air expects return to profit after putting fuel hedging fiasco behind it
 
FT.com
June 8, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 519 words
Byline: Robert Wright in London
Body
Low-cost European carrier Wizz Air expects to return to profit this year as the post-pandemic rebound in travel 
gathers pace and the group puts a series of setbacks behind it.
The airline’s expectations of making a profit in the year to March 2024 contrast with the previous financial year, 
when it faced several problems, including a decision to abandon fuel hedges that backfired when the  war in 
Ukraine sent prices up sharply. 
The fuel price exposure was a substantial contributor to the carrier’s net loss for the year to March 31 of €535mn. 
With comprehensive currency and fuel hedges now in place, the Budapest-based group said on Thursday that it 
expected to report a net profit for the current financial year of between €350mn and €450mn.
 Wizz Air has expanded aggressively since it was founded almost 20 years ago, making it a competitor to Ryanair in 
Europe’s low-cost market.
Referring to the lack of hedging, chief executive József Váradi said its fuel costs in the first half of its last financial 
year had been “totally down to the market” and that the market “was not paying a favour to us”.
He attributed the expected turnround from the €535mn loss to profits of €350mn to €450mn to three factors. 
Váradi said that of the roughly €1bn improvement he expected cost efficiencies to generate €400mn, a further 
€200mn to come from better use of the airline’s fleet and crew and about €400mn from having fuel and currency 
hedges in place.
Wizz Air expects return to profit after putting fuel hedging fiasco behind it
“I’m very confident in the performance of the airline financially as a result of all the operational changes and 
investments we’ve made,” Váradi said.
Like other low-cost airlines, Wizz is investing in the latest generation of single-aisle, fuel-efficient aircraft. During the 
current financial year, it is expecting to receive 42 Airbus A321neo aircraft, with new, fuel-efficient engines. It 
intends to hand back to lessors 16 smaller A320s with older engines.
The company is  targeting expansion to Gulf states such as the United Arab Emirates and other parts of Asia, as 
well as growth in western Europe.
Váradi said that, in light of delivery problems at Airbus, it was expecting to receive about four fewer aircraft than 
originally intended during the financial year. However, he said, the airline had “levers to play with” to manage the 
issue, including extending the leases of aircraft in its existing fleet.
Wizz Air shares have soared almost 50 per cent this year, cutting some of the steep decline that began in early 
2021, as investors anticipate further improvements in the carrier’s performance.
Following Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, Wizz Air was forced to restructure the 10 per 
cent of its services that had been scheduled to serve airports in either Ukraine or Russia.
For the 12 months to March 2023, Wizz Air’s revenues more than doubled to €3.9bn as passenger demand 
recovered from the pandemic. On Thursday, the company said it expected to increase its available seat capacity by 
about 30 per cent in the current financial year.
“I think that we’re clearly seeing very strong demand for our services and products,” Váradi said.
Load-Date: June 8, 2023
End of Document
The price of flying will keep rising, even on Ryanair
The price of flying will keep rising, even on Ryanair
 
FT.com
May 26, 2023 Friday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 852 words
Byline: John Gapper
Body
The emptiest aircraft on which I ever flew was an All Nippon Airways flight from Tokyo to London in June 2020 amid 
the pandemic. It was a Boeing 777-300 with about 250 passenger seats, of which four were filled: in airline lingo, it 
had a load factor of less than 2 per cent.
We crossed continents like a ghost flight, the attendants devotedly sticking to their usual in-flight routines and 
walking by the empty rows of seats to confirm that nothing was amiss.  Flight ANA-211 was a fragile link between 
Japan and the UK in the days when many passenger flights stopped: I booked at the last minute and the tickets 
were memorably cheap.
Flights are now much fuller, and fares higher. When I returned to Japan earlier this year, direct fares had doubled in 
price and I connected in Hong Kong to economise. The same is true of short-haul flights as people book up eagerly 
for summer holidays: Ryanair, now Europe’s  biggest airline, this week  reported strong bookings, and easyJet has  
done the same.
With stronger demand and higher jet fuel costs have come stiffer prices. Ryanair  carried 16mn passengers in April 
— more than the same month in 2019 — and its aircraft were 94 per cent full. Its fares have risen by 10 per cent on 
pre-Covid levels and the carrier’s famous €9.99 fares (before paying for bags and better seats) are a  fading 
memory.
Airlines are notoriously cyclical and prone to losing money: the industry collectively  lost $138bn in the annus 
horribilis of 2020, when I took the ghost flight to London. Even in good times, margins are tight. Prices have fallen in 
The price of flying will keep rising, even on Ryanair
real terms for decades because they keep on buying new aircraft (Ryanair has  ordered up to 300 737-Max 10s 
from Boeing) and trying to fill them.
Despite this, I believe the industry’s warnings that we will have to pay more to fly: “We are in an entirely different 
world where air fares are rising,” one executive  told the FT this week. Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, 
may keep squeezing rivals with his motto that “lowest cost wins” but it will not feel like that for the customer.
With restrictions lifted, people want to fly again: “Short-haul flying has roared back to life because of pent-up 
demand,” says  Frankie O’Connell, reader in air transport at the University of Surrey. They must contend with fewer, 
stronger carriers: Ryanair’s flights were about  80 per cent full a decade ago, but seats are now scarcer.
Not only can such airlines charge more; they will soon have to. The industry faces a vast technological challenge in 
meeting its  self-imposed target of reaching net zero carbon emissions by 2050. It is impossible to do so on the 
current flight path, given that aviation  accounts for about 2.5 per cent of global emissions, and moving to another 
one will be extremely expensive.
Ryanair exemplifies the traditional approach: keep on growing but try to curb the environmental impact by replacing 
old aircraft with modern twin-engined jets that burn less fuel. It  promised this week that people switching to its 
flights from other airlines could cut their emissions by up to 50 per cent because of what it dubs its “game-changer” 
fleet of newer 737s.
Well, up to a point. It is true that such aircraft help by reducing emissions per passenger, but it is slow going. The 
last of Ryanair’s new Boeings is due to be delivered  in 2033, only 17 years before the net zero target, and 
efficiency can only partly mitigate growth. Some 10bn passenger journeys are  expected in 2050, five times the 
volume of 2021.
There is little chance of turning to electric or hydrogen-powered aviation soon: Airbus intends to fly a zero-
emissions hydrogen plane by 2035 but it would take €300bn of investment to build the infrastructure in Europe 
alone, one study  found this week. Even then, taxes on jet fuel would be needed to make hydrogen flight 
competitive.
The best medium-term bet is sustainable aviation fuel, made from waste oils, fats and non-food crops. The industry 
is counting on SAF for two-thirds of the contribution to achieving its net zero target. But it will be hard and costly to 
produce enough: Dave Calhoun, Boeing chief executive,  warns that biofuels will “never achieve the price of jet 
fuel”.
There is an iron logic to all this: flying is going to be expensive. I regret it, in many ways. Aviation is marvellous for 
taking holidays in interesting places and exploring the world, despite crowded airports and cramped seats. But 
flyers have not borne the full environmental price, even with carbon offsets, so something has to give.
Prices can be powerful, as the growth in flying encouraged by low cost carriers shows. The French government has  
decreed a ban on domestic flights of less than two and half hours between cities well connected by trains. France is 
an outlier but higher fares could have a similar impact elsewhere in squeezing short-haul flight, where there is a 
decent alternative.
For my part, I am going to Amsterdam next week by train. The Dutch government has  been blocked by a court 
from curbing flights to Schiphol airport, and it would have been cheaper to fly. One day, it may not be.
Load-Date: May 29, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair swings to profit on European travel rebound
Ryanair swings to profit on European travel rebound
 
FT.com
May 22, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 438 words
Byline: Robert Wright in London
Body
Ryanair has announced it returned to profit in the year to March 31, narrowly beating market expectations, and said 
it expected further improvements in the coming year.
Pre-tax profits for the Dublin-based low-cost airline were €1.44bn on revenues of €10.8bn, against a €430mn loss 
and €4.8bn of revenues in the year to March 2022. Profit after tax but before exceptionals — the company’s 
preferred measure — was €1.43bn, compared with a €355mn loss a year before. Analysts expected a figure 
between €1.32bn and €1.42bn.
The figures are the latest evidence of a rebound in the European airline industry and of  Ryanair’s particularly 
strong post-Covid recovery. It carried 169mn passengers in the financial year, against 97mn a year before. The 
figure for the year to March 2023 was 13 per cent above the figure for the year to March 2020, before Covid 
disruption set in.
Ryanair’s load factor — the proportion of seats filled on its flights — recovered to 93 per cent, against 82 per cent 
for the year to March 2022.
Chief financial officer Neil Sorahan said the company had a “rebound” in traffic after a “difficult” April-to-June quarter 
last year following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.
“We saw traffic across the remaining quarters increase quite significantly,” he said.
Ryanair swings to profit on European travel rebound
Costs — at €31 per passenger excluding fuel — were back down to pre-Covid levels, but fares were higher thanks 
to strong demand and tight capacity across the sector.
“Fares were trending about 10 per cent ahead of pre-Covid levels,” Sorahan said.
Ryanair projected further growth in passenger numbers and profits in the year to March 2024, saying it expected to 
carry 185mn passengers in the year. However, it also said it expected higher market prices would increase the 
company’s fuel bill for the year by more than €1bn, despite deliveries of more fuel-efficient 737 Max jets.
“We don’t have significant visibility at this point in time but [the April-to-June quarter] is going to be very strong given 
the weak comparisons from last year and the invasion of Ukraine,” Sorahan said.
Summer bookings were “robust” and fares were ahead of summer 2022 levels, he added.
The airline said there was “ongoing uncertainty” over a range of factors including the  timing of new aircraft 
deliveries from Boeing, some unhedged fuel price exposure and future demand.
However, Sorahan said the company was likely to post higher profits in the year to March 2024.
“While we have no visibility into the second half, which is normal at this time of year, we would be cautiously 
optimistic,” Sorahan said.
Ryanair’s shares on Dublin’s Euronext exchange were up 2 per cent at €15.96.
Load-Date: May 22, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair ’s O’Leary pledges growth push by stealing European market share
Ryanair’s O’Leary pledges growth push by stealing European market share
 
FT.com
May 21, 2023 Sunday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1196 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in Dublin
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary has vowed to push for breakneck growth and win more market share from 
rivals in Europe, as he presses ahead with a goal to double passenger numbers over the next decade.
The airline’s ambitious new target to fly an annual 300mn passenger by 2034 would be more than any airline has 
yet managed. 
“I think the thesis that there’s no more growth in Europe, [and that] Europe is completely tapped out, is wrong,” he 
told the Financial Times.
The company  bought 300 short-haul aircraft in a $40bn deal with Boeing earlier this month. But some investors and 
analysts question whether there are enough passengers left to carry in Europe, particularly at a time of rising 
climate concerns when policymakers are raising carbon taxes on flying. 
O’Leary agreed the airline’s growth rate would moderate to around 4-5 per cent a year, but said this was enough to 
hit its forecasts. He said there was still plenty of room to steal market share from rivals in western Europe, as well 
as stimulate demand in new markets in central and eastern Europe.
“As long as we don’t do something stupid — which is a daily challenge in this industry — we will continue to wipe 
the floor with every other airline in Europe,” he said.
Ryanair ’s O’Leary pledges growth push by stealing European market share
Ryanair has been European aviation’s post-pandemic winner, moving into new markets as financially weaker rivals 
retrenched. The carrier is already the largest in Europe by passenger numbers; it expects to carry a record 168mn 
passengers in the year to the end of March, 13 per cent higher than before Covid.  
Alex Irving, an analyst at Bernstein, envisages the airline’s growth inevitably slowing as the industry stabilises 
following the pandemic. Its home market of western Europe is “essentially fully penetrated”, he said. 
“Double-digit, and even high single-digit growth rates, were sustainable while it was smaller, but as a near-600 
plane airline, it cannot maintain these rates without spoiling yields,” he said. 
Irving instead expects Ryanair to pivot from high growth to returning cash to shareholders, and estimates payouts of 
€2bn per year in the near future.
However, O’Leary is unmoved by doubts. Speaking in Ryanair’s offices near Dublin airport, he boiled the business 
model down to three words: “lowest cost wins”. 
Analysts agree that no European airline other than Hungarian carrier Wizz Air comes close to matching Ryanair’s 
cost base; the Irish airline spent decades stripping costs and passing the savings on to consumers through lower 
fares.
It uses a single fleet of aircraft to keep maintenance costs low, and keeps a regular flow of new and more efficient 
planes to lower fuel consumption. It targets quick turnrounds at generally cheap airports to sweat its assets to the 
maximum.
The obsessive focus on low costs and subsequent “no frills” experience has left Ryanair with a reputation. UK 
consumer group Which? said Ryanair “regularly sits at the bottom” of its table ranking UK airlines, and only 
escaped “last place this year through the horrendous experience offered by [fellow ultra-low cost airline] Wizz Air.”
But passengers have kept coming, attracted by low fares and its recent record of reliability. Ryanair did not sack 
staff during the pandemic, cutting their pay temporarily instead, and did not suffer from the disruption which blighted 
the rest of the industry last summer. 
At about €16, its shares have returned to their pre-pandemic levels but have easily outstripped rivals since the start 
of the crisis in 2020. 
Chris Davies, an investment manager at Baillie Gifford, which is the third-largest investor in Ryanair and has owned 
the stock for more than a decade, said it was “strategically remarkably consistent”.
“They haven’t really deviated very much from the core premise of bringing the unit costs down, bringing airfares 
down and taking market share ,” he added.
Many within the industry agree, and airlines are riding high off a bounce in demand for travel. 
“Many several years ago predicted that Ryanair would soon run out of European growth opportunities and it hasn’t 
yet,” one industry consultant said. 
Olivier Jankovec, head of airport industry body ACI Europe, said the shape of the pandemic recovery has suited 
short-haul airlines like Ryanair, as leisure travellers have returned in higher numbers than business people. 
He said Ryanair wielded “a lot of market power”, including demanding airports offer major discounts on landing fees 
as it rebuilt its routes.
“The impact is that it puts airports in competition with each other like never before . . . I don’t think it is good for the 
market or consumer,” he said. 
Ryanair ’s O’Leary pledges growth push by stealing European market share
However, there are questions over whether the rebound in demand for travel is sustainable, particularly if airfares 
stay high. 
Prices have risen sharply over the past year, outstripping inflation, and O’Leary himself is among a clutch of senior 
industry executives to forecast the end of the super-cheap air fare. 
One senior aviation executive said industry forecasts for passenger numbers are based on old models which 
assumed that ever cheaper fares would drive growth. Instead, they said structurally higher air fares could erode 
demand for flying.
“The truth is no one really knows now. We are in an entirely different world where air fares are rising. No one really 
knows what this means for demand,” they said. 
The industry is also facing rising climate concerns, including paying higher carbon taxes as a system of free 
allowances is phased out under EU Emissions Trading Scheme, which analysts believe will raise fares further. 
“Ryanair’s business could be challenged by environmental legislation” that would potentially restrict routes and 
impose minimum pricing, analysts at Barclays said in a recent note. 
Sébastien Thévoux-Chabuel, a portfolio manager at French asset manager Comgest, which is a top-15 shareholder 
in Ryanair, said it was “the best operator in the sector. We see large market share for them to gain . . . The only two 
questions remaining are how far are we on that journey of conquering new countries and what kind of impact will 
the cost of carbon have.”
Ryanair’s long-term passenger forecasts run into the next decade, and project forward to a future which might not 
involve the 62-year-old O’Leary, who has almost single-handedly dragged Ryanair from a bit-part regional airline 
into a global aviation powerhouse. Few European corporates are as intimately linked to their CEO. 
“Ryanair breathes MOL,” said one former executive at the airline referring to O’Leary’s initials. “It’s one of those 
brands that has clearly imprinted its CEO’s personality.” 
O’Leary’s current contract runs out in 2028 and there are signs of succession planning as it has created a group 
structure, with the Irishman sitting at the top of a senior management team. 
He said he has stepped back from managing every aspect of the business, and now largely works on fleet 
development and funding. He is no longer as hands-on with union talks, negotiations with airports or route planning, 
he said. 
“I think in the early days when we were turning this thing around . . . I was the key man, it depended on me. I made 
all that decision. it’s too big now,” he said. 
Load-Date: May 21, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair / Boeing Max-10: from upstart to member of the establishment
Ryanair/Boeing Max-10: from upstart to member of the establishment
 
FT.com
May 18, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 350 words
Body
Airline passengers prefer aisle to window seats for ease of movement. No wonder. If Europe’s airline bosses could 
safely jam more people on their planes, they would. Business is brisk as easyJet affirmed in its  interim report on 
Thursday.
Its low-cost rival Ryanair is not taking this sitting down. Earlier this month, it announced an order for another 300 
Boeing 737 Max-10 aircraft  to swell its fleet to 675 planes by 2028 — one of the largest in Europe — a deal worth 
$40bn. Ryanair is already top-ranked in Europe (and fourth worldwide) for scheduled seats as of September last 
year. But is it saturating the regional market?
 Ryanair says it needs these extra, more fuel-efficient Max-10s. With a fifth more seats than its current mainstay, 
the Boeing 737 NextGen (about 80 per cent of its fleet), the Max-10 should also burn a fifth less fuel. That thriftiness 
will matter as Ryanair has expanded its passenger target from 225mn by March 2026 to 300mn seven years later.
At €22 per available seat, jet fuel is expected to eat up 44 per cent of the budget airline’s operating costs, according 
to Visible Alpha data. Ryanair reports full-year results later this month. Analysts expect that expense to climb 
towards €25 per seat in three years’ time. Even so, Ryanair trumps its rivals on overall costs per passenger by no 
less than a third.
This increased cost efficiency should keep earnings per share bubbling along. However, even at 225mn 
passengers, Ryanair is already a regional giant. Its €19bn market capitalisation almost equals the combination of its 
next two largest rivals, Lufthansa and British Airways owner IAG. Even with a large and expanding fleet, its capital 
spending should soon peak. That should result in steady free cash flow of about €2bn.
Ryanair / Boeing Max-10: from upstart to member of the establishment
But the fleet growth could be deceptive. Without obvious acquisition targets, Ryanair could morph into a high-
yielding cash machine, thinks Bernstein. It pays no dividend and has not bought back shares since the pandemic 
began, but all that could change. Formerly a pushy upstart, Ryanair is evolving comfortably into a middle-aged 
airline.
Load-Date: May 19, 2023
End of Document
Come fly first class with me
Come fly first class with me
 
FT.com
May 12, 2023 Friday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 643 words
Byline: The editorial board
Body
One of the bold predictions made in the dark days of the first Covid-19 lockdown was that air travel would never be 
the same again. Once executives discovered it was perfectly possible to hold meetings with counterparts across the 
globe via Zoom, business travel — from which many airlines derived the bulk of their income — would surely never 
fully recover; companies would balk at paying for pricey air tickets and hotels. As travel collapsed, many airlines 
were kept alive by bailouts. Hundreds of aircraft were parked in the Arizona desert.
Things have turned out rather differently. Monthly air passenger numbers are virtually back to pre-pandemic levels. 
But demand is recovering fastest in the  premium segment — driven not by business travellers but by leisure. 
Lufthansa chief Carsten Spohr said this week that his team’s urgings to expand first class — long in decline — were 
something he “never thought I would hear”. Air France-KLM says high-end leisure travellers are more than 
offsetting reduced corporate travel. The three biggest US carriers told investors last month passengers were eager 
to book seats at the front of the plane.
The recovery is not only in first and business class. Low-cost Ryanair this week struck a deal to  buy up to 300 
Boeing aircraft. With demand close to outstripping supply amid a backlog of new planes, and labour and fuel costs 
soaring, air fares are rising at  twice the rate of inflation. The struggle by  airlines and airports to accommodate the 
surge led over the past year to delays, cancellations, and  falling customer satisfaction levels. But that, in turn, may 
be pushing middle-class customers to upgrade their seats in search of a better experience — even, in some cases, 
at the cost of shortening their trips.
Come fly first class with me
One factor driving the wanderlust is “revenge travel” — the urge to make up for foregone trips, funded by savings 
accumulated during lockdown. Then there is “bleisure”, the growing tendency for those who are still travelling on 
business to tack leisure time on the end, and take partners with them.
The wealthy seem particularly seized by the post-Covid “you only live once” or “yolo” mentality: a readiness to 
splash money on goods and experiences today, not hoard it for an uncertain tomorrow. The same phenomenon is 
reflected in the surge in luxury cars, watches and handbags. France’s LVMH recently became Europe’s  first 
$500bn company, its founder Bernard Arnault overtaking Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos as the  world’s richest person. 
Indeed, the super-rich never really gave up travelling in the pandemic, driving a boom in the private jet industry.
Some airlines now foresee a permanent shift towards holidaymakers filling first and business class cabins. When 
those berths sell for many multiples of economy prices it is understandable for the likes of Lufthansa, Qantas and 
Etihad to be rushing to expand premium cabins with options including extra-wide beds and UHD televisions.
Yet this seems an uncertain long-term bet. The US luxury boom  is slowing, and the urge for “revenge travel” may 
wane along with Covid-era savings. Climate concerns may once again start to intrude. And some in the industry 
concede that, after 40 years of falling fares, no one quite knows what today’s rising ticket prices may mean for 
future demand, or where the ceiling is.
The history of the air travel business is that when demand booms, supply eventually catches up — and returns are 
pummelled. Delays in delivering new planes are slowing that cycle today, but future order books are bulging. 
Lufthansa’s Spohr quipped in March that current high yields were “just too much fun”. After their near-death 
experience during Covid, airlines may need to enjoy them while they last.
Letter in response to this editorial comment:
 Chocks away — baby boom big spenders take to the air /  From Alice Bray, New York, NY, US
Load-Date: May 17, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair wins EU court case against Lufthansa ’s pandemic aid
Ryanair wins EU court case against Lufthansa’s pandemic aid
 
FT.com
May 10, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 446 words
Byline: Javier Espinoza in Brussels and Guy Chazan in Berlin
Body
Ryanair has won a European court case against the EU’s decision to grant Lufthansa billions of euros in state aid to 
help the German carrier during the pandemic, in a major setback to regulators in Brussels.
The General Court said the European Commission made “several errors”, saying Brussels was wrong to consider 
that Lufthansa “was unable to obtain financing on the markets for the entirety of its needs”. 
EU regulators approved €6bn in state aid to help  Lufthansa as the German government sought to acquire a 20 per 
cent stake in the bloc’s largest airline to prevent its collapse.
At the time, Carsten Spohr, Lufthansa’s chief executive, said the original planned bailout exceeded what the 
company needed, drawing further scrutiny on regulators.
Under state aid rules companies cannot receive more than the amount necessary to keep trading without skewing 
competition. 
Since then, Lufthansa said it had repaid or cancelled all remaining government support given in aid during the 
Covid-19 crisis.
The ruling is a setback for EU regulators and not the first time that Brussels has lost a court case relating to 
government aid to companies. 
Ryanair wins EU court case against Lufthansa ’s pandemic aid
In July 2020, the General Court, the EU’s second court that makes sure it follows its own rules, quashed an order 
for Apple to pay back €14.3bn in taxes to Ireland.
“It’s a very hard-hitting ruling against the commission,” said Alec Burnside, a Brussels-based partner at law firm 
Dechert. 
“The commission has had to work at breakneck speed during Covid. They really mobilised to allow member states 
to do what was necessary to save important players,” he said, noting that state aid rules were applied in haste 
during the crisis. 
Lufthansa said it would examine the ruling and then decide on further action. It said the company had already fully 
repaid the bailout funds approved by the Commission, as well as about €92mn in interest. 
Lufthansa added that the government body that arranged the bailout, the Economic Stabilisation Fund, had sold its 
shares in Lufthansa for €1bn. “The stabilisation was thus already fully terminated before today’s court ruling,” it said. 
 Ryanair welcomed the judgment, saying it confirmed “that the commission must act as a guardian of the level 
playing field in air transport”. 
The commission, the executive arm of the EU, said it would “carefully study the judgment and reflect on possible 
next steps.” It is unclear whether it will appeal against the ruling before the European Court of Justice, the EU’s 
highest court.
The German economy ministry said it would study the verdict, but since it was directed against the commission, 
“the economy ministry cannot comment on it, nor assess its impact”. 
Load-Date: May 10, 2023
End of Document
High stakes for China in crackdown on foreign business
High stakes for China in crackdown on foreign business
 
FT.com
May 10, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1382 words
Byline: Darren Dodd
Body
Today’s top stories
•
US inflation was slightly weaker than forecast in April in a sign that the Federal Reserve’s programme of 
interest rate rises was taking effect.  CPI dipped to an annual rate of 4.9 per cent, its lowest level since 
April 2021, while core inflation, which strips out volatile energy and food prices, dropped slightly to 5.5 per 
cent.
•
Ryanair won a European court case against the EU’s decision  to grant Lufthansa billions in state aid to 
help the German carrier during the pandemic in a setback for regulators in Brussels. 
•
Binance, the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange, said a crackdown on crypto had made it “  very 
difficult” to do business in the US, adding it now hopes to be regulated in the UK.
For up-to-the-minute news updates, visit our  live blog
Good evening.
“It is little exaggeration to say the future of economic globalisation is at risk.”
That’s the view of the FT’s editorial board on the intensifying  crackdown on US consultancies operating in China, 
making it more difficult than ever for foreign investors to glean even basic information on potential acquisitions, 
Chinese partners or suppliers.
High stakes for China in crackdown on foreign business
China on Monday said state security services had  raided the offices of Capvision in Shanghai, Beijing, Suzhou and 
Shenzhen,  broadcasting the action on primetime TV. It follows raids on Mintz and  Bain & Company.
The US Chamber of Commerce warned that Chinese scrutiny of American companies had risen “dramatically”, 
particularly after a new counter-espionage law widened the scope of material that could be deemed sensitive for 
national security reasons, prompting  visits from the “men in black”. 
The clampdown threatens to undo the  recent charm offensive by Li Qiang, China’s second-ranked leader after 
President Xi Jinping, to woo back foreign investors as it seeks to restart growth after a long period of pandemic 
disruption.
Ker Gibbs, former president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, said it was “sending chills to the 
whole [foreign business] community . . . The lawyers and the due diligence people are like swamp guides. If you 
don’t have a swamp guide you are not going into the swamp.”
China is also caught up in a  tit-for-tat diplomat expulsion row with Canada, which has ramped up measures to curb 
China’s development of advanced semiconductor technology.
In addition, China’s relations with the EU are under pressure over  Beijing’s support for Russia. Beijing yesterday 
said it would retaliate if Brussels went ahead with  sanctions on eight Chinese companies accused of selling 
equipment that could be used in weapons. The proposed new measures, seen by the FT, are being discussed by 
EU member states this week. 
It may be that, as China’s domestic companies improve and expand, (exemplified by the  rapid rise of the country’s 
motor industry), investment from western multinationals is becoming less essential, the FT notes. 
However, it is these companies that have pleaded the case for continued engagement with China in the face of 
increasingly hostile domestic political opposition. If Beijing does not act swiftly to assuage their concerns, the FT 
concludes, “the result could be a fundamental breach between China and the multinationals that have long been its 
biggest supporters in the west”.
Need to know: UK and Europe economy
UK manufacturers urged ministers to stop “flip-flopping” and come up with an effective industrial strategy. The 
head of trade body Make UK said the country was the  only major economy not to have one.
Recent more encouraging data on the UK economy has, however, led to a  revival in the strength of sterling. 
Interest rates could hit their highest level since 2008 when the Bank of England makes its decision tomorrow. 
Here’s our  explainer on the latest thinking.
Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan gave 700,000 public sector workers a  45 per cent pay rise just days 
before this weekend’s hotly contested election. Our Big Read has all you need to know on the  battle between 
Erdoğan and his main challenger Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu. 
The latest target for western sanctions on Russia is its  lucrative diamond business. Our Big Read examines how 
G7 plans for an inspections regime could risk destabilising the global market.
Need to know: Global economy
US president Joe Biden failed to reach a breakthrough with Republicans to avert a crisis over the debt ceiling after 
a meeting yesterday. The issue is likely to dominate US politics and could  shake up global financial markets over 
the coming weeks.
China’s imports fell in April, casting doubt over  the pace of the country’s economic bounceback. Western 
companies said they had  overestimated how quickly China would recover. 
High stakes for China in crackdown on foreign business
Indonesia has overtaken Australia and the Philippines to become the world’s  second-largest supplier of cobalt, a 
battery metal, after the Democratic Republic of Congo. Many operations are being driven by joint ventures of 
Chinese companies and local groups, fuelling western anxieties about Beijing’s dominance of the electric car supply 
chain. 
The market for lithium, another battery component, is also booming. Allkem, one of Australia’s largest lithium 
companies, is to merge with US rival Livent in a  $10.6bn deal.
Latin America has abundant and cheap renewable energy, is one of the world’s biggest food exporters, is at 
peace, and is well placed to profit from the US shifting production from China. Yet the region’s leaders are  
squandering its opportunities, argues LatAm editor Michael Stott. Ecuador’s president Guillermo Lasso  faces an 
impeachment trial related to contracts with state oil transport company Flopec.
Chief economics commentator Martin Wolf analyses the  threats and promises of artificial intelligence and in 
particular its effect on work and productivity. 
Need to know: Business
Despite the dramatic headlines of the past few months, profits in the US banking sector hit an  all-time high of 
$80bn in the first quarter, an increase of 33 per cent on last year, as institutions benefited from rising interest rates, 
low loan defaults and an expanding job market. Former regulator Sheila Bair says Congress needs to  protect 
smaller banks from investor nerves.
ChangXin Memory Technologies, a Chinese chipmaker, is  going ahead with a listing in Shanghai to fund its 
expansion after receiving confirmation from US chip toolmakers that they can supply its new production lines. 
Glencore, one of the world’s largest diversified natural resources groups, plans to build  Europe’s biggest battery 
recycling plant.
Dividends at Britain’s privatised water companies surged to £1.4bn in 2022, according to FT analysis, despite  
rising household bills and public criticism over sewage outflows. The opposition Labour party said it  planned a new 
regulator for England and Wales if it won the next general election.
A new global task force, in conjunction with Interpol and Europol, aims to crack down on sport streaming piracy 
that is  costing the broadcast industry $28bn a year.
The World of Work
The debate over whether the UK is losing its top talent — and falling further behind New York as the home of the 
world’s top companies — has intensified in recent months.  Does it pay for British executives to move to the US?
The Generation Z cohort of young lawyers — those born between 1995 and 2012 — are increasingly shunning the 
biggest global law firms for their  lack of work-life balance and clashes with their personal ethics, according to a new 
survey.
The latest Working It podcast discusses the changing nature of recruitment and why employers now believe  skills 
matter more than your degree.
LinkedIn is  closing down its Chinese version, becoming the latest western company to shut services in China amid 
increased competition and a tightening regulatory environment. 
Hybrid work has improved working lives for many, not just the elite, argues columnist Sarah O’Connor, and that is  
progress we shouldn’t throw away. Hybrid work is also  fuelling demand for female networks.
Some good news
High stakes for China in crackdown on foreign business
The World Health Organization said a new solution to manage post-partum bleeding could be a major 
breakthrough in  reducing maternal deaths. The problem affects an estimated 14mn women each year with around 
70,000 deaths — mostly in low and middle-income countries — or one death every six minutes.
Load-Date: May 11, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair to buy up to $40bn worth of Boeing aircraft and create 10,000 jobs
Ryanair to buy up to $40bn worth of Boeing aircraft and create 10,000 jobs
 
FT.com
May 9, 2023 Tuesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 623 words
Byline: Sylvia Pfeifer and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Irish low-cost carrier Ryanair has struck a landmark multibillion-dollar deal to buy up to 300 Boeing aircraft, 
signalling a big expansion of its fleet in the latest sign of the travel industry’s revival. 
The agreement for the 737 Max-10 aircraft, including 150 options, is valued at more than $40bn at current list 
prices, although airlines typically secure significant discounts on large orders. 
It comes after discussions collapsed more than 18 months ago over a disagreement on price. The aircraft will be 
delivered between 2027 and 2033. 
The order is an endorsement of the largest variant of Boeing’s 737 Max and underlines the appetite of airlines to 
splash out on new aircraft as travel has rebounded in the wake of the Covid pandemic. 
The boom in demand has led to industry-wide supply chain problems and left Boeing and rival Airbus struggling to 
deliver jets to big customers. Boeing last month warned a  production issue on the Max would hamper deliveries in 
the short term, which Ryanair said would lead to a small number of flight cancellations this summer. 
Ryanair on Tuesday said the substantial new order would allow it to increase traffic by 80 per cent over the next 
decade, and forecast passenger numbers to increase from 168mn passengers at the end of March this year to 
300mn by March 2034. Some 150 of the new aircraft will be used to replace Ryanair’s older Boeing 737NG planes. 
The airline said the agreement would also create more than 10,000 new jobs for pilots, cabin crew and engineers. 
Ryanair to buy up to $40bn worth of Boeing aircraft and create 10,000 jobs
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary has spent much of the past 18 months criticising Boeing and its leadership 
over its prices, and the production problems which have led to delays and setbacks in the delivery of its aircraft in 
the past two years. 
But on Wednesday O’Leary said the talks on the order,  which restarted earlier this year, had accelerated faster 
than anticipated. 
“We have been pleasantly surprised by the meeting of minds” between the two companies, he said, adding that the 
rebound in the industry was another factor driving the deal.
“If we didn’t move quickly there was a danger we would have been looking at later deliveries in 2028 or 2029.” 
The deal will also allow Ryanair to offer lower fares in Europe, O’Leary said. The airline selected the largest version 
of the Max, which he said would have 21 per cent more seats but burn 20 per cent less fuel than the airline’s 
current 737NGs. 
Ryanair chief financial officer Neil Sorahan said the new aircraft would cut costs by 10 per cent excluding fuel, 
compared with the older 737NGs which are still in service. 
He said this would allow the airline to cement its cost advantage over rivals and fuel further growth, estimating 
Ryanair would carry 30 per cent of all European short-haul passengers if it hits the target of 300mn passengers in 
the 2030s.
“It was about time we got in and did another aircraft order, and I am sure we will be back in a couple of years 
looking for the next one,” he said. 
Ryanair ordered 75 aircraft from Boeing during the depths of the pandemic in December 2020, at prices Sorahan 
said would never be repeated. 
He admitted Ryanair would have “liked a bit more” in discounts for the latest order from Boeing, but said “we are 
happy with the deal we have done”.
Airlines across Europe are preparing for a strong summer after reporting buoyant sales in recent months and no 
impact from the broader economic headwinds in the region. 
Ryanair has led the industry’s recovery from the coronavirus pandemic, including expanding its schedules and 
moving into new markets as financially weaker rivals retrenched or collapsed. 
The airline forecast a profit after tax of between €1.3bn and €1.4bn for its financial year ending in March. 
Load-Date: May 9, 2023
End of Document
IAG’s Air Europa bid expected to face lengthy EU probe
IAG’s Air Europa bid expected to face lengthy EU probe
 
FT.com
April 24, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 344 words
Byline: Javier Espinoza in Brussels
Body
British Airways owner International Airlines Group’s second attempt to buy Spanish carrier Air Europa is expected 
to face a lengthy probe in Brussels and may even be blocked amid concern it will lead to higher ticket prices, 
according to four people familiar with the matter.
IAG, which also owns Spanish flagship carrier Iberia, struck a deal in February to buy the 80 per cent of Air Europa 
it does not already own for about €400mn.
The carrier is betting the tie-up will increase its access to the fast-growing Latin American market and help turn 
Madrid into another European hub.
The proposed deal had yet to be formally filed for approval in Brussels, but regulators were readying another 
lengthy probe, the people said. 
“This is the second time this merger has been attempted, and it doesn’t look good,” one of the people said. “We 
didn’t like the first one. It’s going to be worse this time around.”
In 2021, IAG ditched a first attempt to acquire Air Europa because of regulatory concerns. IAG is the biggest airline 
operator in Spain while Air Europa is the third largest player. 
The former initially agreed to pay €1bn for Air Europa in a deal that was struck in late 2019, before the pandemic 
wreaked havoc across the airline industry.
IAG’s Air Europa bid expected to face lengthy EU probe
As part of their assessment, regulators will look at the effect of the deal route by route. Authorities in Brussels were 
concerned at the lack of competition on specific routes, the people said. 
However, IAG could still come up with sufficient concessions and evidence that competitors could enter crucial 
routes that would be enough to secure EU approval for the deal, they added.
IAG declined to comment. The European Commission said that the proposed deal had yet to be filed with 
regulators.
EU regulators have previously blocked Ryanair’s attempts to acquire Irish rival Aer Lingus over concerns the 
merger would lead to unfair competition on key routes.
Last year IAG has returned to annual profit for the first time since the start of the pandemic as airlines enjoyed a 
return of pent-up demand following the pandemic.
Load-Date: April 24, 2023
End of Document
Britain after Brexit: UK services show resilience, but there is still plenty of pain
Britain after Brexit: UK services show resilience, but there is still plenty of 
pain
 
FT.com
April 20, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1686 words
Byline: Peter Foster
Body
Afternoon. Thanks to those of you who joined the Inside Politics webinar yesterday, chaired by Miranda Green. 
Professor Jane Green, Stephen Bush and I talked about the upcoming elections, immigration, Brexit, public 
services and more. You can  watch the recording here. 
It’s been a busy week in Northern Ireland, where Rishi Sunak is trying to put some heat on the Democratic Unionist 
party to re-enter the region’s power sharing executive following his Windsor framework deal on post-Brexit trading 
arrangements.
Brexit may no longer be in the headlines, but Northern Ireland is an example of lasting Brexit effects, permanently 
altering the political and constitutional equation, just as John Major and Tony Blair  predicted it would in 2016. 
This week the government also made encouraging noises at a  Westminster Hall debate about rejoining the Horizon 
Europe science programme. 
Initially there was some doubt after the Treasury and No 10 queried whether the  £1.5bn a year might be better 
spent at home. But based on conversations I’ve had this week, it looks like — so long as neither side makes a daft 
demand in the negotiations currently going on in Brussels — that the broader political case for rejoining Horizon has 
been successfully made. 
Britain after Brexit: UK services show resilience, but there is still plenty of pain
The Treasury is instinctively sceptical about the financial premium to be paid for the intangible benefits (the 
networking effects for UK scientists and industry) that come from Horizon, but it is clear that overwhelmingly the  
scientific, educational and industrial establishments believe that it’s worth it. More on this in another edition.
I also enjoyed another  Brexit broadside from Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary this week in which he confidently 
predicted that the UK would be forced to buy its way back into the EU single market within the next 15 years by 
paying into EU budgets, and seeking a Swiss or Norway-style trade deal.
Part of his calculation is that old Brexiters will die off, and the young are more pro-EU. Maybe, but it’s worth 
considering that Switzerland, which very nearly joined the EEA in 1992, became less pro-EU over time as a result 
of its frictional relationship with Brussels.
Leaving aside cherry-picking issues for a second, how young voters will feel about the EU, and the merits of “paying 
to play” in Europe in 15 years hence, will depend on how the current generation of politicians handles the 
relationship and how the economy develops. (I may have mentioned, but I’m writing a  short book about this!)
But today I want to return to UK trade in services and the difficulty in working out what Brexit is doing to a part of the 
economy in which the UK enjoys a global competitive advantage, but which gets less attention than goods trade.
I asked Britain After Brexit readers to share some experiences, and they did, so what follows is necessarily 
anecdotal in nature, but the responses echoed some clear themes that I’ve picked up in my own reporting. 
First a quick reminder of the topline data. Sophie Hale at the Resolution Foundation  finds the UK in the middle of 
the G7 pack for services exports, when you take account of very unusually large £11.7bn “balancing” adjustments 
applied by the ONS to reconcile top-down and bottom-up measures of GDP.
Of course, we don’t have the counterfactual — ie, how much better the UK would be if it wasn’t for Brexit — but it’s 
equally clear that UK services exports have proved more resilient than some anticipated prior to the UK leaving the 
EU single market.  
So what might underlie that resilience? Here’s a synthesis of what you all told me. First, the good news:
Immigration
As Professor Jonathan Portes and others  have acknowledged, pre-Brexit predictions about immigration proved to 
be wide of the mark. The UK’s  points-based system, which sets a relatively low bar (£26,200 compared to €50,000 
in France or Germany) for skilled-worker visas has led to higher-than-expected levels of skilled immigration. 
As one midsize data consultancy boss puts it: “This has made it easy to attract the talent that we need (a 
combination of domestic and immigration).” But this comes with a warning: “A cut to net migration would not 
necessarily be fatal, but it may drive our headcount towards other geographies (eg, eastern Europe).”
Zoom revolution
This was the most consistent theme. The Covid-19 pandemic has socialised the business world to use video 
conferencing to deliver services that were previously delivered in person. We’ve all got better at using these 
technologies, and more accepting of them as effective alternatives to in-person delivery. It also helps with 
sustainability targets.
As one cultural consultancy put it: 
Before Brexit, I would travel to various European countries to deliver the training and that has of course 
completely dried up . . . but I am also continuing to “export” to Germany and the Netherlands, in the former 
case in much larger contracts than before, because clients with regional HQs in Germany have asked me to 
run series of seminars, online, to the whole Emea region.
The grey market
Britain after Brexit: UK services show resilience, but there is still plenty of pain
Another reason why services flows to the EU might have continued better than expected is the use of “grey” areas 
for business travel purposes, which enables delivery of “Mode 4” fly-in, fly-out services on the quiet, particularly for 
micro businesses.
UK passport holders can visit the EU for 90 days in every 180 without a visa. Restrictions vary somewhat from 
country to country, but you are permitted to meet clients, negotiate contracts, give or receive training. This creates a 
world where quite a lot of business can be done face to face, with the final product “delivered” online. 
I heard differing views about what can, and can’t, be done under the “90 in 180” rule. One question is whether the 
new forthcoming EU visa-waiver and biometric border checks (reportedly  partly delayed again to 2024 this week, it 
seems) is going to make it easier for EU border staff to question UK business people’s reason for travel. 
Will it enable border forces to track travel patterns more easily? If someone is constantly arriving in a country every 
other week Monday to Friday, the data may raise questions about the true purpose of their visit.
For now experiences and practices seem to vary a lot. As one data consultant put it: “The European Travel 
Information and Authorisation System is the elephant in the room.” The consultant adds: “I am sure the noose will 
tighten on businesses trying their luck with the 90 day rule.” I’ll keep watching this — do share your stories via .
The weak pound
Another point from readers was that weaker sterling had made the UK a cost-effective place to locate human 
resources. One boss estimated that the cost of labour in the UK was about half that in the US and lower than 
western Europe. So perhaps the weaker currency after 2016 helped improve UK services performance in a way 
that it didn’t for goods. 
But . . . 
That’s all the good news that might explain resilience in UK services exports. On the other hand, for companies that 
need to provide in-person services — engineers, architects, tour guides etc — they are confronting real post-Brexit 
drag issues.
This is reflected in a Bloomberg  report this week on the evidence of a gradual shift away from London by big banks 
and investment institutions, with Paris seen as increasingly liveable and post-Brexit bridgeheads being built out with 
local hiring. That is opportunity cost to the UK.
For businesses still in the UK that provide services bundled among physical products, there is still plenty of pain. 
The head of a major business organisation, who had recently returned from a UK-wide tour of members, told me 
that one of their top complaints was on services. The problem is the variety in approaches and regimes from 
different EU member states which leaves UK business often frustrated and confused. 
In summary, it’s a mixed picture that is still emerging from the pandemic. But to state the obvious, anything that can 
be done to improve mobility and accessibility (broader recognition of qualifications, easier short-term business 
visas) should be an important focus of the five-year review of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement — not 
forgetting that the UK will have to give something to get something.
On that note, the drumbeats are starting to gather in intensity on what a better Brexit might look like after the next 
election. The  Trade Unlocked conference in June in Birmingham — organised by the Best for Britain pressure 
group — is looking to bring together traders and trade enablers to talk about a wider reboot. 
As Shevaun Haviland, the director-general of the British Chambers of Commerce, who is on the organising 
committee, notes: “Too often trade policy is set without the input of, and sometimes even against the advice of, the 
people and organisations that trade every day.” 
That’s a result of having a government wedded to a Brexit deal that seeks to defy trade gravity. The hope must be 
that when it comes to trade the next UK government — of whatever stripe — has its feet on the ground.
Britain after Brexit: UK services show resilience, but there is still plenty of pain
Brexit in numbers
This week’s chart comes from the  German-British business outlook survey for 2023 which broadly shows sentiment 
is improving in the German-British business community, even though the outlook for the UK economy is negative. 
The biggest drags on sentiment are labour shortages (not helped by ending free movement) and Brexit trade 
barriers that continue to foul supply chains. No surprises there. 
But the chart that caught my attention was the one showing how little the surveyed businesses think Rishi Sunak’s 
Windsor framework will change the price of fish, or perhaps flanges, in this context. 
It’s a reminder that while big-ticket political successes attract a lot of column inches and political and journalistic 
headspace, they take much longer to deliver change on the ground for businesses.
Britain after Brexit is edited today by Georgina Quach. Premium subscribers can  sign up here to have it delivered 
straight to their inbox every Thursday afternoon. Or you can take out a Premium subscription  here. Read earlier 
editions on the newsletter  here.
Load-Date: April 20, 2023
End of Document
Travel boom helps European airlines defy economic gloom
Travel boom helps European airlines defy economic gloom
 
FT.com
April 19, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1112 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Harriet Agnew and Arjun Neil Alim in London
Body
After three years of shocks including the coronavirus pandemic and soaring fuel prices following Russia’s full-scale 
invasion of Ukraine, airline bosses are facing a more welcome puzzle: why is demand booming even as concerns 
mount over a deepening economic downturn?
The UK’s easyJet on Tuesday became the latest carrier to  predict a strong summer as it raised its earnings 
forecasts for a second time this year, boasting not only strong sales but also a willingness among passengers to 
pay high prices.
European rivals have reported similar trends and many are already back in profit despite rising inflation and 
economic headwinds.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, has predicted that an expected rise in airfares of up to 15 per cent this 
summer will have no impact on bookings. 
Industry executives put the resilience in demand down to peoples’ desire to return to normality and resume 
travelling following pandemic restrictions. 
Johan Lundgren, chief executive of easyJet, said it had become increasingly clear this year that consumers were 
“prioritising” travel after border restrictions and Covid testing rules hampered tourism between 2020 and 2022. 
Travel boom helps European airlines defy economic gloom
“We see strong momentum for bookings which is being driven by customers continuing to prioritise spending on 
their holidays,” he said. “Consumer research has said for some time that travel has risen in importance for 
consumer spending and this is clearly coming through in our bookings.”
He pointed to recent research from the European Travel Commission, an industry association, which found that 
travel was the only discretionary expense that people were willing to maintain despite the economic conditions. 
A KPMG survey of UK consumers in December came to a similar conclusion, with travel moving to the top spot for 
non-essential spending over the next 12 months. 
Ambrose Faulks, co-manager of Artemis UK Select fund at Artemis Investment Management, which holds shares in 
easyJet, International Airlines Group and Ryanair, put the industry’s resilience down to “pent-up demand, coupled 
with large excess savings post-Covid, coupled with a long absence of visiting friends and relatives, and business 
demand”.
Lundgren said recent price rises should also be taken into context. He said the 31 per cent rise in ticket prices in 
easyJet’s most recent quarter averaged about £12, equivalent to the cost of a couple of coffees and a snack at an 
airport. 
“It is in absolute numbers not that massive compared to some of the other cost increases in society,” he said. 
Price rises in the summer, when tickets are typically considerably more expensive, will be more material for 
consumers, with the average easyJet fare standing at £90 for a one-way ticket. 
“Despite cash crunches elsewhere, whilst we have full employment and job security, people are willing to dip into 
savings and give themselves a holiday,” said Greg Johnson, a travel and leisure analyst at Shore Capital. “The 
question going into next year is, can the level of demand be sustained at current price levels?” 
With no signs that consumers have been put off yet, the sector’s recovery prompted Ben Smith, chief executive of 
Air France-KLM, to declare this year that the airline had “turn[ed] the page” on Covid.
Despite the robust demand, companies are finding it more of a challenge to convince investors to fully back their 
recovery. Shares in many of Europe’s major carriers are still well below their pre-pandemic levels, despite a recent 
strong rebound.
Even before Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine, Warren Buffett described airlines as a “death trap for investors”, 
with companies’ fortunes normally closely tied to the global economic cycle and exposed to external shocks, from 
natural disasters to swings in the oil price. The US investor  sold all his airline holdings in May 2020, pronouncing 
that “the world has changed” for the industry following Covid.
Industry executives admit that companies have more to do to convince skittish investors to return, particularly after 
last summer’s rebound was marred by travel disruption.
Analysts and investors said concerns hanging over the sector included whether the industry could remain immune 
to the economic backdrop forever, as well as the future path of oil prices and rising environmental concerns, 
including carbon taxes.
“Recent share moves are telling you there is reasonable confidence summer trading will be healthy,” said Andrew 
Lobbenberg, analyst at Barclays. “But looking beyond that, investors are certainly anxious about macroeconomic 
developments . . . and are unsure about the pace of the business travel recovery.”
The industry also emerged from the pandemic with a significant debt burden, opening a debate about whether  
airlines will be forced to turn to investors to stump up more capital.
Nevertheless, European airline executives and fund managers who have backed the industry believe its leading 
players have re-emerged stronger. Companies now have lower costs following cutbacks, leaving them ready to 
Travel boom helps European airlines defy economic gloom
cash in on resurgent demand and the crucial summer season with less competition after weaker airlines retrenched 
or collapsed, they say.
Supply chain constraints including aircraft shortages also mean it is harder for new entrants to shake up the market, 
or for incumbents to rush in new supply of seats leading to a collapse in prices.
Chris Davies, an investment manager at Baillie Gifford, which is the third-largest investor in Ryanair and has owned 
the stock for more than a decade, held shares even during the bleakest days of the pandemic, in the belief the 
airline would prosper.
“For us, holding Ryanair through the pandemic was very much about them just being able to take a lot more market 
share because they were going to survive, others were going to struggle and come out the other end in much worse 
shape,” he said.
Ryanair, Europe’s largest airline, is now leading the industry recovery, but its shares are 10 per cent below pre-
pandemic levels despite the market share gains it is targeting.
“We still think that there’s quite a big mismatch here between the opportunity in front of them, their ability to exploit it 
and where the market is today,” Davies said.
Ryanair’s O’Leary said he expected European airlines to be “re-rated” later this year following a “dramatic 
reassessment” of the sector by investors.
But his optimism came with a warning that underscored the sector’s vulnerability to external shocks and has put off 
some investors.
“I would hope we are in for two or three years of reasonably stable capacity, reasonably stable pricing,” he said. 
“But then fuel could mess it up. Or an Icelandic volcano — or war and pestilence somewhere.”
Load-Date: April 19, 2023
End of Document
EasyJet boosts profit forecast as demand soars
EasyJet boosts profit forecast as demand soars
 
FT.com
April 18, 2023 Tuesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 438 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
EasyJet raised its full-year profit guidance on the back of strong bookings and higher ticket prices, boosting the 
airline’s recovery from the pandemic as demand for travel has defied the economic slowdown.
The UK airline on Tuesday said it would probably beat market expectations of full-year pre-tax profits of £260mn for 
the 12 months to the end of September. The forecast was more than double its previous guidance in January, of 
more than £126mn in profits before tax. Shares in the carrier rose more than 1 per cent on Tuesday afternoon.
 Airlines across Europe have reported consistently strong bookings throughout the year, which easyJet chief 
executive Johan Lundgren put down to consumers “prioritising spending on travel”.
The industry’s recovery from the pandemic has been further bolstered by passengers’ willingness to pay higher 
ticket prices. The rising prices are in part driven by airlines passing on increased costs, including fuel. 
EasyJet said pricing was “strong” over the winter, with the revenue it makes from each passenger seat rising 40 per 
cent to £66.46 during the six months between October and March.
The rise included higher so-called ancillary revenues, such as customers paying extra to carry-on or check-in 
luggage. 
The airline expects the trend to continue into the summer, with revenue per seat forecast to rise about 20 per cent 
year on year during the April to June quarter. The metric reflects both ticket prices and how full planes are.
EasyJet boosts profit forecast as demand soars
“We have to cover the costs of inflation pressure and fuel we are seeing,” Lundgren said. 
Analysts at Goodbody said the “very strong pricing trends” had driven the airline’s improved earnings guidance, and 
said they expected investors to “again reappraise the strength of the summer season to the upside both for easyJet 
and the sector”. 
EasyJet increased its flying schedules by 40 per cent between January and March, and expects to return to 
“around” pre-pandemic capacity levels over the summer. 
Its growth plans are similar to those of British Airways but well short of Ryanair, which is already above its 2019 
capacity. 
EasyJet reported “robust” operations over Easter despite the impact of  French air traffic control strikes, and 
industry executives hope the smooth getaway will reassure passengers who fear a return of last year’s travel 
disruption, which was caused by industry-wide staff shortages. 
Winters are typically lossmaking for airlines, but easyJet narrowed its pre-tax losses over the six months to the end 
of March to £415mn from £545mn a year earlier. Revenue rose 80 per cent to £2.7bn, while fuel costs more than 
doubled to £770mn. 
Load-Date: April 18, 2023
End of Document
India ’s ‘unknown’ biggest airline pushes for global expansion
India’s ‘unknown’ biggest airline pushes for global expansion
 
FT.com
April 17, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1148 words
Byline: Sayan Chakraborty, Nikkei Asia staff writer
Body
Last September, Pieter Elbers became chief executive of India’s largest airline, IndiGo, and quickly discovered what 
it is like to be overlooked.
A budget carrier specialising in domestic routes,  IndiGo flew more than twice as many passengers last year as 
AirAsia, Singapore Airlines, Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways. But few people outside its home country had 
heard about it.
“In my observation, IndiGo is such a great and well-respected brand in India,” Elbers told Nikkei Asia. “But outside 
India, [the perception of the airline] is neither positive nor negative. It’s just unknown.”
Elbers is hoping to change that. The 52-year-old — who joined IndiGo after serving nearly eight years as chief 
executive of Dutch carrier KLM — is making international expansion a priority, setting the stage for more intense 
competition with regional rivals, including India’s second-biggest carrier, Tata Group’s  Air India.
IndiGo flies Airbus aircraft to 26 international destinations and reaches 30 European cities under a code-share 
agreement with Turkish Airlines that enables either carrier to sell seats on its partner’s planes.
Elbers said IndiGo would soon start flying to Nairobi and Jakarta, and was in talks to sign a code-share agreement 
to expand to the US. It is awaiting delivery of A321XLR aircraft from Airbus, which can fly longer distances and will 
help IndiGo grow further in Europe, south-east Asia and north-east Asia.
“Our position in international [travel] is still, I would say, modest, but internationalisation is going to be a very 
important part of our road map going forward,” Elbers said.
India ’s ‘unknown’ biggest airline pushes for global expansion
At the same time, he pledged that IndiGo would “develop the domestic network, which remains the core of the 
company”, with a goal of “serving every city which has an airport of some size”.
The airline, which flies to 78 cities in India, carried 69mn passengers within the country in 2022. Its domestic market 
share topped 55 per cent in February, according to India’s civil aviation regulator, twice that of Air India, its closest 
domestic competitor. IndiGo flew 7.42mn international passengers last year, while Air India carried 10.67mn.
“At present, IndiGo is very much a regional carrier, similar to [Ireland-headquartered] Ryanair or [Hungary-based] 
Wizz Air,” said Mark Martin, chief executive of aviation consultancy Martin Consulting. “On the contrary, a carrier 
like Air India was designed to fly international.”
Set up in 2006, IndiGo has thrived in a difficult home market. At least 15 Indian carriers, including high-profile 
brands such as Jet Airways and Kingfisher Airlines, have ceased operations in the past three decades, brought 
down by price wars, low occupancy and the high cost of fuel.
IndiGo’s selling point has been reliability. Research firm Jefferies said in a report in March that 84 per cent of IndiGo 
flights departed on time, compared with 72 per cent for Southwest Airlines and 75.5 per cent for Ryanair.
“IndiGo remained focused on its low-cost roots despite distractions like Kingfisher Airlines and Jet Airways, which 
made some headway with full-service models,” said aviation blogger Devesh Agarwal. “What helped them seize the 
market was relentless focus on operational excellence, optimal use of resources and launching multiple flights on a 
single route. You look for an IndiGo flight any time of the day, and most likely you will find one.”
IndiGo’s international ambition comes as competition heats up in India’s aviation sector. The south Asian nation has 
already surpassed China as the world’s most populous country and is poised to become the third-largest global 
economy by the end of the decade. The Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation, an aviation consultancy, estimates that 
India’s domestic airline traffic will grow by about 20 per cent in the fiscal year ending March 2024 to 160mn 
passengers, while international traffic could surge 27 per cent to 75mn. By comparison, about 199mn people flew 
on American Airlines in 2022 and 168mn used Ryanair.
India’s government has responded by earmarking $11.8bn for airport construction and modernisation. It hopes to 
increase the number of airports from 140 to 220 by 2025. The government has also rejected a request from the 
United Arab Emirates to boost the maximum number of seats Gulf carriers can offer Indian passengers per week 
from 66,000 to 116,000, because it wants more Indian airlines to fly direct international flights.
IndiGo faces stiff competition from Air India, which placed a  huge order for 470 jets from Boeing and Airbus in 
February, including 70 wide-body variants, underscoring its ambition to operate nonstop long-haul flights. India’s 
Akasa Air, which started operating in August and will begin international routes this year, said it would place an 
order for new planes going into “three-digits”, on top of an existing order for 72 aircraft from Boeing.
IndiGo has started taking delivery of 500 jets that will expand its fleet to 800 aircraft by 2030. Reuters has reported 
that the airline is in talks with Airbus and Boeing for an order of an additional 500 aircraft, including wide-body 
planes.
Elbers declined to comment on the report. But he said the airline would stick to its low-cost model as it seeks more 
international business, banking on its “three customer promises of on-time performance, hassle-free and courteous 
service, and affordable fares”.
“Rather than being overly concerned with what others are doing or not doing, we follow our own path,” he said. “The 
competition will take its own decisions on how to position and where to position, and what to integrate or not to 
integrate. But for us, these three customer promises will continue to be the key. There will be competition but 
IndiGo is in a good spot to deal with it.”
Analysts caution that it will be a tall order for IndiGo to replicate its success at home on the international front. 
Indian international travel is skewed towards the Middle East and south-east Asia, where local airlines handle the 
India ’s ‘unknown’ biggest airline pushes for global expansion
bulk of traffic. Expanding internationally would put IndiGo in competition with full-service carriers ranging from Air 
India to Emirates, Qatar Airways and Singapore Airlines.
Martin of Martin Consulting said the incumbents could wage a price war to limit IndiGo’s growth.
“The minute you start flying in foreign countries, local airlines will drop the fare because they see you as 
competition,” said Martin. “IndiGo has to slug it out in the same manner they did in India for years to win the 
international market.”
A  version of this article was first published by Nikkei Asia on April 13. ©2023 Nikkei Inc. All rights reserved.
Related stories
•
Air India banks on nonstop flights to bolster global presence
•
Air India makes big international push with record jet order
•
Tata Group takes over debt-laden Air India from government
•
AirAsia’s Tony Fernandes: Tourism is back, but fight to survive goes on
Load-Date: April 18, 2023
End of Document
Boeing warns of delays to 737 Max deliveries over production issue
Boeing warns of delays to 737 Max deliveries over production issue
 
FT.com
April 14, 2023 Friday 1:37 PM GMT
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 415 words
Byline: Claire Bushey in Chicago
Body
Boeing said on Thursday that a production issue would affect its ability to deliver a “significant” number of 737 Max 
jets, worsening aircraft shortages for airlines around the world.
The aircraft manufacturer said supplier Spirit AeroSystems had used a “non-standard” process when installing two 
fittings in the fuselage of certain models of the narrow-body jet, creating the possibility that it might not comply with 
specifications laid out by aviation regulators.
Shares in Boeing fell more than 6 per cent at the start of trading on Friday. Spirit’s stock dropped more than 17 per 
cent.
 Boeing said the planes could still operate safely, but “the issue will probably affect a significant number of 
undelivered Max aeroplanes, both in production and in storage . . . We expect lower near-term 737 Max deliveries.”
The delay will deepen headaches for Boeing’s customers, many of whom would like to expand their flying 
schedules but need to  secure more planes to do so. Supply chain difficulties have left Boeing struggling to deliver 
jets to big customers such as Southwest Airlines. United Airlines and Air India have also placed large orders 
recently with the flagship US manufacturer.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of low-cost carrier Ryanair, spoke last month about possibly  buying more planes 
from Boeing. The latest delay, however, could prompt the resumption of earlier complaints about Boeing’s inability 
to deliver.
Boeing warns of delays to 737 Max deliveries over production issue
A delay in deliveries also will hamstring Boeing’s cash flow, since it receives the bulk of payment for a jet upon 
delivery. The company reported $2.3bn in free cash last year, the first time in three years that it generated more 
cash than it spent. Investors consider free cash — operating cash minus capital expenditures — a primary measure 
of Boeing’s financial health.
Boeing has been trying to move past the turmoil that has gripped the company since two fatal crashes of the 737 
Max in 2018 and 2019 prompted a worldwide grounding of the plane, followed by plummeting demand for air travel 
with the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. It has struggled with production problems, from building Air Force One to  
glitches on the 787 that halted deliveries for all but two months between October 2020 and August 2022.
Boeing said it had notified the US Federal Aviation Administration of the production problem and would inspect the 
jets to find and replace the “non-standard” fittings.
Spirit said it was working with Boeing to resolve the problem “and minimise impacts”.
Load-Date: April 14, 2023
End of Document
Russia ’s war transforms sleepy Polish city into aid hub for Ukraine
Russia’s war transforms sleepy Polish city into aid hub for Ukraine
 
FT.com
April 12, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 923 words
Byline: Raphael Minder in Rzeszów
Body
It is hard to find a city outside Ukraine and Russia more transformed by Vladimir Putin’s war than Rzeszów in south-
eastern Poland. 
The city, some 45 miles from Ukraine’s border, has become the main gateway for western allies to ship weapons 
and humanitarian aid, dispatch wounded soldiers to hospitals around Europe and for world leaders to land at its 
small airport before taking a train to the Ukrainian capital. 
Before the full-scale  invasion of Ukraine, Rzeszów was a “small and conservative place”, according to one 
resident, with an airport mostly known to low-cost airlines. Now, with Ukraine turned into a no-fly zone, Rzeszów-
Jasionka airport doubles as a military facility, with a runway lined with Patriot missile defence systems. Hotels are 
block-booked by army subcontractors and international donors. 
“It’s not as if all roads must lead to Rzeszów, but many now are and more will,”  Poland’s infrastructure minister 
Andrzej Adamczyk told the Financial Times while visiting the city. The war made Rzeszów “essential to Ukraine and 
I believe that such processes of change then become irreversible”. 
The scale of Rzeszów’s transformation has been astounding for its residents.
For many years, “almost no foreigner even knew” Rzeszów, said psychologist Jan Markovíc, who runs a local 
cultural association. “But people from all over the world have now been coming here, so it’s a very big change but 
also a big opportunity for us to learn and grow.”
Russia ’s war transforms sleepy Polish city into aid hub for Ukraine
The airport’s transformation into a western logistics hub for Ukraine was apparently not lost on Russia: Poland last 
month  arrested 12 foreigners from unspecified eastern European countries and accused them of spying for Russia 
and preparing sabotage attacks in the area. The authorities also found illegal cameras close to the airport.
“It’s a real problem if our airport is now a target for Russian intelligence services,” said Sławomir Porada, deputy 
mayor of the Trzebownisko municipality that hosts the airport. “It’s made people in our community feel much more 
uncomfortable.” 
The US put Rzeszów on the map in February last year shortly before Russia’s attack when it deployed paratroopers 
to bolster Nato’s eastern flank. Its 82nd Airborne Division arrived at an airport that until then had been used mostly 
by budget airline Ryanair. 
The airport has also been used by world leaders on their way to and from Kyiv, including US President Joe Biden, 
who made a surprise visit to the Ukrainian capital in February, and Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelenskyy before 
and after his trip to Washington in December. 
Ryanair now shares the tarmac with military helicopters and Boeing 747 cargo planes operated by freight carriers 
such as Kalitta and Atlas Air.
The Polish city has been a refreshing change for those previously stationed in war-torn countries such as 
Afghanistan. “Compared to Bagram [air base], this feels amazing,” said a mechanic working for the US 
subcontractor Amentum, which specialises in the maintenance of military hardware. “I can try the local beer and 
food here.” The company has booked an entire hotel for its employees in Rzeszów.
Near the airport, a medical evacuation centre funded by the EU started last September to dispatch Ukrainian 
patients to hospitals across Europe and then bring them home after their treatment. “I’m hoping we will not be 
needed here much longer, but I’m also sure we will still want to support Ukraine after the war stops,” said Wojciech 
Soliński, its deputy medical co-ordinator.
Vladyslav, a soldier returning to his homeland, stopped at Rzeszów’s medevac having had surgery in a Czech 
hospital on a hand partly ripped off during fighting in eastern Ukraine. “I don’t want to be back on the frontline but 
perhaps I can do something else to help our army,” he said. Asked what he would remember about Rzeszów, he 
said “the people and all the care they have given me”.
While many Ukrainians who came to the city went on to other places, tens of thousands have settled there, swelling 
the local population by up to 20 per cent.
In February Natalia Anpolska escaped with her two children from Bakhmut, the city that has endured the longest 
Russian assault and has become a symbol of Ukrainian resistance. She previously worked for her country’s 
railways, but found a job at a Rzeszów beauty salon. 
“I was very worried about not finding work here, so this job is very important,” she said. “I still want to go home, but 
only without the war.” 
While locals are proud to help Ukrainians, they also struggle with more aircraft noise and road closures to make 
way for Ukraine-bound convoys. Land prices increased 50 per cent over the past year because “developers now 
think about the military officers who will be living here for the next 10 years or more”, Porada said.
After a coronavirus pandemic lockdown, “it’s great for the city to have all hotels and restaurants full”, said Anna 
Brzechowska-Rębisz, managing director of the regional tourism board. “But that doesn’t mean the war brings 
economic benefits to everybody and encourages more tourists to visit the region outside Rzeszów.” 
Some residents are already thinking about spearheading Ukraine’s postwar reconstruction. Volodomyr Dyba, a 
Ukrainian who fled Donetsk in 2014, found work with a Rzeszów transport company and created his own foundation 
last summer to send humanitarian aid trucks to Ukraine.
Russia ’s war transforms sleepy Polish city into aid hub for Ukraine
“I think Rzeszów will remain very important after the war because we have all the logistics to rebuild Ukraine,” he 
said.
Additional reporting by Barbara Erling in Warsaw
Load-Date: May 11, 2023
End of Document
European flights disruption to continue, say airlines
European flights disruption to continue, say airlines
 
FT.com
March 29, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 582 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in Brussels and Adrienne Klasa in Paris
Body
European airlines have warned that air traffic controller strikes in France will cause  further travel disruption for 
passengers this year.
French air traffic controllers have joined a series of strikes called by unions this month against President Emmanuel 
Macron’s  unpopular pension reforms.
The disruption has rippled across Europe because air traffic controllers are responsible for planes flying over their 
airspace, as well as those landing and taking off from French airports.
EasyJet chief executive Johan Lundgren said on Wednesday that the airline was “very badly hit” because UK flights 
often had to cross French airspace to reach other parts of Europe.
“It is something we have to plan for, and we are doing our best to try to mitigate it but, of course, it is very 
difficult . . . sometimes you only get 24 hours’ notice,” he said.
Michael O’Leary, the Ryanair chief executive, said this summer would be “materially better” than in 2022 when staff 
shortages led to an unprecedented set of delays and cancellations.
But he said airlines still faced a “very difficult” challenge, mainly because of the “scandal” of delays and 
cancellations caused by the French strike. 
European flights disruption to continue, say airlines
Europe’s skies are already congested because of the closure of Russian and  Ukrainian airspace and Eurocontrol, 
the EU’s air traffic manager, warned in January of  “major” pressure as airlines returned to close to their pre-
pandemic flight schedules. 
O’Leary added that he expected strikes to continue into April, which would affect the Easter getaway. He said 
Ryanair had to cancel 60 flights scheduled on both Wednesday and Thursday at short notice.
Europe’s largest low-cost airline also cancelled 230 flights last weekend.
DGAC, the French civil aviation authority, said domestic and regional flight schedules were more likely to be 
affected than long haul because of the increased disruption involved in rescheduling the latter.
The aviation authority added that it had no visibility into strike actions in the coming weeks because unions only had 
to notify them shortly before they went on strike.
On Wednesday evening, DGAC asked airlines to cancel more flights over the weekend, including a quarter of those 
scheduled at Paris-Orly on Sunday. 
Ryanair has called on the European Commission to introduce minimum service rules to prioritise flights over France 
during industrial action.
An EU official said the commission was “closely monitoring” the strikes as it weighed the proper functioning of its 
internal market with the right to strike. 
“The commission is also following up on several complaints received on this issue against France,” the official 
added. 
Lundgren said he hoped the strikes would tail off if the Macron government pushed through its reforms by mid-April 
as planned. 
Carsten Spohr, the Lufthansa boss, said the airline had faced “similar” problems, as well as a one-day strike in 
Germany last week.
Security staff at Heathrow airport are also due to begin a 10-day walkout on Friday, leading British Airways to 
cancel about 300 flights. 
The warnings came as airlines prepare for the peak summer season, which is expected to be the busiest since the 
pandemic began in 2020.
The industry is under pressure to improve its operations following  chaotic scenes last summer as a result of staff 
shortages, and all three CEOs told the Airlines4Europe conference in Brussels that they were ready. 
“We have to defend against a few bad days ruining the reputation of our industry,” Lufthansa’s Spohr added. 
Load-Date: March 29, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair restarts talks with Boeing over new aircraft order
Ryanair restarts talks with Boeing over new aircraft order
 
FT.com
March 23, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 605 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Sylvia Pfeifer in London and Claire Bushey in Chicago
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary said he was optimistic about striking a major new aircraft order after the 
low-cost airline restarted talks with Boeing in the latest sign of the revival in aviation.
O’Leary said there was a “deal to be done” with negotiations between the Irish airline and  Boeing in “the early 
stages” for a new order of Boeing 737 jets, 18 months after discussions collapsed over a disagreement on prices.
“We are back talking to them, which I think is an indication there is some movement on pricing . . . I think there is a 
deal to be done,” he told the Financial Times. 
He said the new multibillion-dollar order could be for the 737 Max 10, the largest aeroplane in the family of single-
aisle aircraft, or for the smaller Max 8200.
The potential boost for Boeing came as its chief executive Dave Calhoun told the FT he was optimistic the worst of 
the jet manufacturers’ delivery problems was “in the rear-view mirror”. 
The company, which declined to comment on the  Ryanair talks, has experienced delays and setbacks in the 
delivery of its aircraft in the past two years because of production problems. 
Ryanair is one of Boeing’s biggest and most important airline customers, and O’Leary has regularly criticised the 
manufacturer over prices and its record in delivering aircraft. 
Ryanair restarts talks with Boeing over new aircraft order
O’Leary has accepted that the new planes will be more expensive than the “ridiculously low price” he paid for his 
most recent order, signed in the depths of the coronavirus pandemic when the industry was virtually grounded.
Ryanair ordered 75 Max 8200 in December 2020, which analysts said would have come at a “screaming” discount, 
taking its total orders for the single-aisle plane to 210. 
O’Leary has since regularly chided Boeing for delays in the deliveries of these aircraft, but said the company has 
recently made “real strides” in clearing its backlog.
“The supply chain is sorting itself out,” he said. 
Boeing, which along with arch-rival Airbus, has struggled to deliver planes and meet the resurgent demand from 
airlines, has in the past four months notched up orders for almost 200 of its 787 widebody aircraft. 
The US company last week announced orders for 78 Boeing 787s, split between state-owned Saudi Arabian 
Airlines and new national airline Riyadh Air. 
Speaking after the announcement in Saudi Arabia last week, Boeing’s Calhoun said he was confident the parts 
shortages that have hampered deliveries of some of the company’s best-selling jets were easing. 
“We are confident that by the end of this year things will be appreciably better and by the end of next year they will 
be behind us,” Calhoun told the FT. “I’m pretty optimistic that the big issues are now in the rear-view mirror.” 
Calhoun also stuck to the company’s full-year production and delivery guidance, which it announced in November. 
Deliveries of the 787 Dreamliners are central to Boeing’s plan to increase revenues and cash flow. 
Supply chain and labour shortages have dogged Boeing and the aerospace industry since airline travel returned 
after the Covid-induced lockdowns were lifted. 
Before the pandemic, Boeing and Airbus had  pressed suppliers to meet higher targets in the middle of the past 
decade as they ramped up production to meet booming demand for aeroplanes.
But Boeing slammed the brakes in 2019 when its single-aisle 737 Max was grounded worldwide following two fatal 
crashes, and the pandemic further damped demand.
The lower production rates made suppliers reluctant to invest in hiring employees or buying machinery, which has  
led to bottlenecks for particular parts now that airlines are again clamouring for planes. 
Load-Date: March 23, 2023
End of Document
Lufthansa : strong run needs support from passenger profits
Lufthansa: strong run needs support from passenger profits
 
FT.com
March 3, 2023 Friday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 331 words
Body
Few of us have exhausted our list of places to visit. That is what Lufthansa chief executive Carsten Spohr thinks. 
His airline is “back” as bookings soar. Really he means his airline should start earning more from shuttling people 
rather than cargo fares. That is the key to Lufthansa shares staying aloft.
Shareholders loved Lufthansa’s profit recovery last year. The stock price — up by 68 per cent in six months — has 
outrun those of most regional rivals. A decent  full-year result on Friday, bolstering the balance sheet with €2.5bn of 
free cash flow, led to another 6 per cent gain. 
That strong run partly stems from a successful diversification of group earnings. Not only cargo but also its 
maintenance business (Lufthansa Technik) have delivered all group operating profits since 2019. That said, 
Lufthansa would like to sell a stake in the latter to lower its net debt (including pensions) to ebitda ratio below the 
current 2.3 times. 
Investors, too, love Spohr’s optimism. Passenger bookings for this spring and summer have surpassed that seen in 
2019, he said. But how much they will enjoy the experience is another story. Bottlenecks on staffing have caused 
problems for even the most efficient airlines. See Southwest’s experience during this winter’s US storms. That 
explains Spohr’s goal of increasing staff this year by a tenth over 2021.
Not that rivals are sitting on the tarmac. Ryanair, Wizz and easyJet should exceed 2019 capacity this spring, says 
Bank of America. Long-haul flights will have to make up the difference for Lufthansa, led by the lower fare leisure 
traveller. Even Lufthansa admits that more profitable corporate bookings should still be 15 per cent below pre-
pandemic levels in 2024. Speaking of expansion, Lufthansa will double its short-haul cargo fleet just as profitability 
normalises from very high levels. 
Lufthansa : strong run needs support from passenger profits
Lower fuel costs, too, boost earnings. But better earnings only tempt the industry’s insatiable desire for capacity 
growth and fare wars. 
Load-Date: March 3, 2023
End of Document
Airlines return to profit as sales surpass pre-pandemic levels
Airlines return to profit as sales surpass pre-pandemic levels
 
FT.com
March 3, 2023 Friday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 626 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Patrick Mathurin
Body
Airlines have returned to profit and are forecasting that booming demand will push earnings even higher over the 
next year, in a striking turnround for one of the industries worst hit by the pandemic. 
The world’s largest airlines reported $6.3bn in net profit in 2022, a striking reversal from a combined $40bn in 
losses over the previous two years, according to a Financial Times analysis of FactSet and Capital IQ data. 
The figures cover eight of the 10 largest  airlines by passenger numbers but exclude Chinese groups, which were 
still subject to travel restrictions in 2022. 
Sales in 2022 surpassed pre-pandemic levels, driven in particular by strong growth from Turkish Airlines and Indian 
carrier Indigo.
People have flocked back to air travel as restrictions have ended over the past year, most recently in China, and 
there are few signs that worries about the economy will hold back demand in the coming months. 
 Lufthansa on Friday became the latest airline to report an annual profit and strong demand for travel despite 
weaknesses in the global economy. “In just one year, we have achieved an unprecedented financial turnround,” 
said chief executive Carsten Spohr. 
The German flag carrier reported an operating profit of €1.5bn for 2022, up from a €1.7bn loss the previous year. 
Both revenues and passenger numbers roughly doubled. 
Airlines return to profit as sales surpass pre-pandemic levels
The airline said it expected “a significant improvement” in profitability this year as “demand for air travel remains 
high”. 
The results came on the same day that Australian airline Qantas said it expected to hire 8,500 people over the next 
decade to rebuild its workforce, having cut staffing significantly at the height of the pandemic.
Air France-KLM and British Airways owner IAG have also reported a return to profit in recent weeks, and predicted 
that the recovery will continue.
In Europe, many low-cost airlines plan to fly more passengers this summer than in 2019. Ryanair, the region’s 
largest airline, has forecast a higher profit for its financial year ending in March than in 2019.
“This is not a one or two or three-quarter wonder . . . I would be optimistic the industry can get back to 2019 
profitability levels,” said Stephen Furlong, a European airlines analyst at Davy. 
Global air traffic reached 91 per cent of 2019 levels this month, according to data provider Cirium. 
The recovery in the US was faster than in Europe, with some airlines returning to profit in 2021 thanks to a large 
domestic market, few travel restrictions and generous subsidies from the US government.
Airlines have yet to fully rebuild their pre-pandemic flight schedules, with the industry facing constraints including 
shortages of new planes and staff. This has kept profits well below 2019 levels in most cases — two-thirds down for 
IAG, for example — but also contributed to higher ticket prices because of limited supply in the face of booming 
demand.
“The supply and demand dynamics are different than they’ve ever been in my career,” United Airlines chief 
executive Scott Kirby said. 
In the longer run, analysts said a full return to pre-pandemic profitability relied on increasing capacity. 
“Some have already recovered dramatically more than others; it is partly a function of how quickly you can get back 
your 2019 capacity,” said Furlong.
Some airlines must also contend with the slow return of demand in parts of Asia-Pacific, complicated by expensive 
diversions because of the closure of Russian airspace, plus questions over how fully business travel will recover. 
IAG chief executive Luis Gallego said the business would still take “a few years” to hit pre-pandemic profitability, 
absent a new macroeconomic shock. 
Additional reporting by Claire Bushey in Chicago, Nic Fildes in Sydney and Maxine Kelly in London
Load-Date: March 3, 2023
End of Document
Airlines defy gravity as economic gloom fails to bring them down to earth
Airlines defy gravity as economic gloom fails to bring them down to earth
 
FT.com
March 1, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 751 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Airlines are defying gravity. The global economy is weak and inflation is fuelling a cost of living crisis, yet there is an 
apparently relentless demand for flying across the world. 
Low cost airlines in Europe  are touting record booking sprees, US carriers cannot find enough planes to meet 
demand, and Air India has decided now is the time  to place one of the biggest aircraft orders in history. Even 
Primark has been in on the act, trumpeting strong sales of luggage and beachwear this week. 
Adding to the exuberance, passengers are swallowing high ticket prices, helping to drive major airlines back into 
profit and leading Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary, the poster child of the bargain fare,  to declare the era of the ultra-
cheap flight is over. 
This startling resilience has wrongfooted investors, who sold airline shares in the second half of last year as the 
economic outlook darkened, safe in the knowledge that carriers have never been completely immune to the 
rhythms of the wider economy. 
The industry’s fortunes are typically closely linked to GDP growth and economic cycles, and for months it has felt 
like some executives and analysts have been on tenterhooks waiting for the first cracks in demand to appear. Yet 
there are signs air travel could have more room to grow.
Most obviously, this is not a normal environment. The pandemic has not dented demand for foreign holidays, 
however pleasant those staycations were. If anything it has increased it. Or as  O’Leary put it at the height of the 
Airlines defy gravity as economic gloom fails to bring them down to earth
crisis:  “Everyone who has been trapped and gone on holiday to Bognor Regis will want to go to Portugal, Italy and 
Greece.” 
Moreover, as analysts at Barclays note, the majority of air travel is undertaken by wealthier travellers anyway, 
typically people who take multiple trips per year, meaning the industry’s key consumers are insulated from the worst 
of the cost of living crisis. 
Put bluntly: a significant portion of the population, many of whom will have been badly hit by inflation, rarely flew 
anyway. More than a third of people in the UK did not take a foreign holiday at all in 2019, according to ABTA, the 
travel association.
In contrast, fortunate higher earners are still sitting on savings built up during the pandemic. Analysts at Morgan 
Stanley  in January calculated US households spent roughly 30 per cent of their $2.7tn “excess savings” in 2022, 
leaving a considerable buffer against inflation.
For now, these factors powering the pent up demand for leisure travel seem strong. But even if these fade, airlines 
still have two types of traveller to fall back on. 
First, a recovery in business travel is under way, even if some will surely be lost to remote working and heightened 
corporate environmental concerns. British Airways owner IAG  last month said business travel had returned to 70 
per cent of pre-pandemic levels, and it is targeting a return to 85 per cent. 
And second, some of the most important passengers of all are those flying to visit friends and relatives, typically 
expats popping home. These byproducts of globalisation can amount to up to 30 per cent of all passengers, and 
have proven highly resilient. 
Taken together with a slightly brightening economic outlook, the industry’s trickiest challenge could be working out 
how many more planes to fly. 
Many low-cost airlines are already above their pre-crisis flying levels, but the big flag carriers have been more 
circumspect. Capacity for summer in Europe is close to 2019 levels but growing slowly, with year on year growth of 
8 per cent for regional trips, according to Barclays. 
Several factors have held back capacity globally, notably shortages of staff, planes and spare parts. Repeated 
bursts of  travel disruption have not helped. 
These supply constraints have created favourable conditions for airline profits as the surge in demand has allowed 
airlines to raise ticket prices, according to Brian Pearce, the former chief economist at airline trade body Iata. 
But as the supply environment normalises and more planes are available, the breakneck growth in fares can be 
expected to moderate, pressuring margins. 
Airline shares have staged a strong recovery recently, with MSCI’s global airlines index up 27 per cent since 
September, but still one-third below its pre-pandemic levels. Investors have been burnt before by the industry, and 
the pandemic reinforced its vulnerability to unexpected shocks. 
But for now, there could be further to fly for long-suffering airlines and their share prices. 
Load-Date: March 1, 2023
End of Document
BA owner and easyJet still hold high amount of pandemic travel vouchers
BA owner and easyJet still hold high amount of pandemic travel vouchers
 
FT.com
February 28, 2023 Tuesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 486 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
British Airways owner IAG and easyJet are still holding hundreds of millions of pounds’ worth of unclaimed travel 
vouchers, nearly three years after they were widely used to refund passengers for flights when the pandemic first 
disrupted air travel.
IAG, which owns airlines including BA, Iberia and Aer Lingus, reported more than €650mn of unclaimed vouchers 
last Friday alongside its annual results for 2022, when the airline group swung back to a profit for the first time since 
the start of the coronavirus crisis.
EasyJet had £111mn of unused vouchers on its balance sheet at the end September, according to its most recent 
results. Rivals Ryanair and Wizz Air are yet to report their full-year results.
The vouchers were given to passengers whose flights were cancelled, and can be used to book future trips with the 
airlines. 
The high number of unclaimed vouchers highlights their controversial use during the pandemic, when some major 
airlines encouraged passengers to accept vouchers rather than cash refunds as border restrictions first hit their 
operations and led to a wave of cancellations in the spring of 2020.
Consumer group Which? in 2020 said passengers had complained they had struggled to get through to BA to 
request cash refunds rather than vouchers.
BA owner and easyJet still hold high amount of pandemic travel vouchers
It said easyJet passengers were able to request a refund online for a cancelled flight, although many chose 
vouchers instead. 
Robert Boyle, a consultant and former senior IAG executive, said the sudden rush of compensation claims in 2020 
“was extraordinary and absolutely could have bankrupted all the airlines if they had literally paid out to everyone at 
the time”. 
He added it was unusual for airlines to break out vouchers in their results, and there was no historical comparison 
to try to estimate how many will ever be used.
“It is going to be an upside of some sort . . . it could be quite a big number,” he said. 
But Alexander Patterson, an analyst at Peel Hunt, said the unused vouchers were “less a windfall and more a 
liability”, given that the cash has been received and customers could use the vouchers to fly. 
The Civil Aviation Authority, the UK regulator, criticised the industry for its initial response to the crisis, including a 
backlog of refund claims in 2020. It said the process improved as airlines recovered as the crisis wore on.
BA said it had “proactively contacted our customers to remind them to use their vouchers” with more than 700,000 
redeemed in 2022. Vouchers issued in the pandemic are valid until September 2023. 
EasyJet said the unused vouchers accounted for just 2 per cent of its ticket revenue in 2019, meaning “there is a 
very small proportion of customers who have not yet used their vouchers”. 
The carrier added the number of unused vouchers would have fallen since September, particularly as the first two 
months of the year are typically a busy booking period, when the airline reports strong travel demand. 
Load-Date: March 6, 2023
End of Document
Linda Evangelista moment: how the £100mn pay club went wrong
Linda Evangelista moment: how the £100mn pay club went wrong
 
FT.com
February 21, 2023 Tuesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 709 words
Byline: Helen Thomas
Body
Around the pandemic, a small corner of the business world had a Linda Evangelista moment. Except the 
supermodel came pretty cheap. 
Evangelista said in 1990 that elite catwalkers didn’t “wake up for less than $10,000 a day”. A small club of company 
bosses couldn’t rouse themselves without the  chance of a future payout of £100mn.
First in 2019  was Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary, whose potential bonus was €100mn for getting the airline’s shares to 
€21 “and/or” roughly doubling profits in five years. Then came fashion retailer Boohoo  the following year with a 
three-year plan worth £100mn for its co-founders plus £50mn for executives on top of £50mn already on offer to its 
chief executive, based on share price performance. 
Wizz Air’s József Váradi had to  more than double the share price in five years to get his £100mn, agreed in 2021. 
Michael Murray, son-in-law and successor to Mike Ashley at Frasers Group,  could get stock worth £100mn if its 
shares more than double to £15 before October 2025. 
None of these companies are terribly conventional from a governance point of view. All the packages were roughly 
billed as the type of high-risk, high-reward “private equity-style” structures needed to retain and incentivise founders 
or particularly entrepreneurial bosses. 
Linda Evangelista moment: how the £100mn pay club went wrong
All of them were frowned on by proxy agencies (along with a  similar £65mn Cineworld plan), essentially because 
the numbers were too big. But the problem isn’t really the size of the packages; it’s that shareholders were sold a 
pup. 
No one should have believed that, as one of the above told me at the time, the boss would walk away with nothing if 
they didn’t hit the jackpot. It doesn’t happen — if the boss is untouchable or valuable enough to command this 
treatment, he doesn’t accept the payout disappearing out of reach.
Ryanair last year extended O’Leary’s contract to 2028, giving him an extra four years to hit his targets. In fairness, 
playing for time is right out of the private equity playbook when something goes wrong, in this case a pandemic. 
Spreading the payout over a longer period isn’t terrible for investors. O’Leary also has a slightly higher profit target 
to hit and will only receive base salary in the meantime. After a recent rally, the shares would have to rise more than 
40 per cent to hit their mark.
Boohoo’s shares are down nearly 90 per cent since its three-digit pay plan. A new variant,  announced last week, 
remains objectionable: the overall size is only 13 per cent less than previous packages, although it covers more 
employees. And it starts paying out at 95p, 77 per cent below the stock’s 2020 high. 
“We would certainly not expect such plans to be provided to incumbent management who were in charge while the 
share price hit the floor,” was the verdict of one fund manager when asked about these schemes generally.
But the original sin for Boohoo  came last year, when the board put in place a traditional long-term incentive plan for 
its managers. High-risk, high-reward payouts are meant to take the place of conventional schemes. Now Boohoo’s 
leaders are double dipping, as the three-year LTIP remains in place despite the new “growth plan”.
The remainder are a mixed bag. Cineworld is mired in Chapter 11 restructuring in the US. Frasers’ Murray has 
headed in the right direction: its shares at about 800p are not far off their all-time high, up about a quarter since his 
scheme was announced, although the board also added a profit hurdle. Wizz Air looks next in danger of a rejig — 
Varadi’s full payout relies on the shares going from £45 in 2021 to £120 but instead, they’re at about £25. 
It all makes questionable fodder for those who claim that racier pay packages incentivise better performance, or 
that London’s fastidious approach to pay is holding the market back. 
Private equity, says Tom Gosling at London Business School, may ultimately be better equipped to renegotiate or 
axe bosses when required: “At listed companies one reason they’ve put these plans in place is that they have a 
dominant CEO who wants one, which itself is probably a red flag as to whether they have the strength of 
governance needed to handle these supercharged incentives.”
Wake me up when someone walks away from one of these with nothing.
 @helentbiz
Load-Date: February 28, 2023
End of Document
Summer holiday bookings surge at tour operator Tui
Summer holiday bookings surge at tour operator Tui
 
FT.com
February 14, 2023 Tuesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 448 words
Byline: Arjun Neil Alim and Fergus Ryan in London
Body
Tui said summer bookings were ahead of pre-pandemic levels as travellers shrugged off cost of living concerns to 
enjoy the first full year of holidays without restrictions. 
It carried 3.3mn customers in the first quarter, up by 1mn on a year ago, and almost back to 2019 levels. 
Revenue at  Tui reached €3.8bn thanks to positive winter and summer bookings in the three months to the end of 
December. Losses before interest and taxes were €158.7mn, compared with a loss of €271.4mn a year earlier. 
“Our strategy is clear: quality, cost discipline and market share,” said Tui’s chief executive Sebastian Ebel. “Booking 
dynamics for summer 2023 are encouraging,” he said, adding that he expected “underlying earnings to increase 
significantly” for the year. 
The comments came after Tui lost its place as the world’s biggest tour operator to rival Jet2 on Monday. 
The  Civil Aviation Authority reported that Jet2 had expanded its licensing to provide holidays for 5.9mn people 
annually, overtaking the 5.3mn that Tui is able to carry.
Even though holiday prices are higher than they were before the pandemic hit, bookings in the past four weeks had 
exceeded 2019 levels, the company said on Tuesday. 
A total of 8.7mn summer and winter bookings were made for this year, with travellers from the UK and Germany 
leading the resurgence in demand. 
Summer holiday bookings surge at tour operator Tui
Tui’s bullish outlook follows news of strong trading elsewhere in the travel industry. Low-cost airline  Ryanair has 
reported record profitability while easyJet forecast a return to annual profit after three years of losses following 
“strong and sustained” passenger demand.
Tui said its hotels and resorts business drove revenue growth, supported by record bookings for summer holidays 
in January. The company’s net debt position was €5.3bn during the quarter. 
“The return of restriction-free travel meant demand beat pre-Covid levels in the quarter, signalling that the good 
times truly are returning for an industry hammered by coronavirus,” said Julie Palmer, partner at restructuring firm 
Begbies Traynor.
“Losing money over the winter isn’t unusual in the holiday industry, with companies making their money during the 
peak summer season,” she added.
Analysts at Barclays said “encouragingly, bookings have gathered momentum”, noting that fuel and foreign 
exchange had led to a larger operating loss than usual. 
They said in a note that they expected a wider-than-usual operating loss for the next quarter as well, but added that 
if the momentum in bookings continued into the summer then expectations would improve.
Shares in the company nudged upwards just over 1 per cent on Tuesday to 173p, an increase of 23 per cent since 
the start of the year.
Load-Date: February 14, 2023
End of Document
Airline passengers face higher fares under new EU emissions rules
Airline passengers face higher fares under new EU emissions rules
 
FT.com
February 12, 2023 Sunday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 760 words
Byline: Alice Hancock in Brussels and Philip Georgiadis and Camilla Hodgson in London
Body
Airline passengers are facing higher fares under newly strengthened EU rules designed to tackle aviation emissions 
to combat climate change, in a sign that the era of super low-cost air travel may be about to end. 
The threat of higher fares comes as  carriers put up prices to help them recover from the coronavirus pandemic 
after renewed demand for flights with the end of travel restrictions. 
The  EU wants to require carbon-intensive industries to pay more for their pollution with ticket prices likely to rise up 
to €10 per return flight due to increased levies on aviation emissions, according to analysts.
EU lawmakers have given initial approval to an update of the bloc’s carbon pricing rules, which forces industries 
including aviation to buy enough allowances to cover their pollution under the emissions trading system. 
The rules phase out the current practice of allowing airlines to obtain a significant proportion of the permits they 
need for free by 2026. The total number of allowances in the system will also fall over time, which analysts expect 
to drive up the cost of polluting.
Olivier Jankovec, director-general of airports industry body ACI Europe, told an industry conference that the EU was 
going through “a major policy reset” that would change “the economics of the sector”. “It is going to result in 
increasing costs for airlines, increasing fares and lower demand.” 
Airline passengers face higher fares under new EU emissions rules
Airlines for Europe, the industry lobby group, said that “sustainability legislation such as the EU’s . . . could see 
flying via EU hubs like Amsterdam, Paris or Frankfurt becoming about 23-29 per cent more expensive in 2035”. It 
said this could lead to up to 17 per cent fewer passengers travelling through EU hubs.
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary has previously said that rising environmental taxes, alongside higher oil prices, 
meant that the era of “absurd[ly]” cheap fares is over.
The cost of complying with the EU ETS would rise to €5bn in 2027 for the six largest intra-EU carriers, up from 
€0.5bn in 2019, Bernstein analyst Alex Irving estimated. “Airlines cannot absorb that . . . and will need to increase 
prices,” he said. 
Passengers would end up paying between €8 and €10 more per return flight, he estimated. 
Deutsche Bank analyst Jaime Rowbotham forecast that Ryanair, easyJet and Wizz Air would spend a cumulative 
€785mn on carbon allowances in their 2023 fiscal years, equivalent to about €2.60 per passenger journey. That 
could rise to €2.25bn by the middle of the decade, he said. 
EasyJet has said it is impossible to predict future prices, but that the industry needed more government support to 
reach net zero emissions.
Ryanair last year reported spending €51mn on credits and said that “in the medium to longer term” it would not be 
able to “eliminate” the impact of the rising cost of allowances by forward hedging. 
The price of allowances in the EU system were trading at close to their all- time highs, near €100 a tonne on Friday. 
The permits allow the holder to emit one tonne of carbon dioxide. Revenues from the ETS will be put towards 
schemes to boost the use of sustainable aviation fuels.
Airline emissions count for about 3 per cent of EU greenhouse gas emissions, the majority of which comes from 
international flights.
Europe’s emissions trading system is a flagship element of the EU’s plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 55 
per cent by 2030, compared with 1990 levels. 
The “polluter pays” scheme is viewed by climate change campaigners as an effective way to tackle carbon 
emissions, and have pushed for it to be extended.
“Carbon pricing is an essential tool for emissions reduction in Europe . . . it’s only right that airlines pay their fair 
share for emissions,” said Jo Dardenne, Aviation Director at Transport & Environment, an NGO.
Bas Eickhout, a Green MEP, has pushed for free allowances to be phased out as soon as possible, calling them a 
“fossil fuel subsidy”.
Airlines have been covered by the ETS since 2012, though only for flights within the European Economic Area. An 
effort to broaden this to flights outside the area was successfully opposed by countries including China and the US.
European airlines are not only facing an increased cost for their carbon emissions. The EU is also negotiating rules 
to enforce the uptake of sustainable aviation fuels — less polluting alternatives to fossil fuels — as well as 
increased taxes on kerosene.
The emissions trading system update will not come into effect until the final law has been approved in a vote by the 
European parliament and by EU environment ministers in the spring.
Load-Date: February 13, 2023
Airline passengers face higher fares under new EU emissions rules
End of Document
Ryanair on track for ‘strong’ summer after reporting record profit
Ryanair on track for ‘strong’ summer after reporting record profit
 
FT.com
January 30, 2023 Monday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 484 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary has forecast that a rush of US and Asian tourists will boost demand in 
Europe this summer, after the low-cost airline reported record profitability despite the economic downturn.
O’Leary said early bookings showed that Europe’s largest airline was on track for a “strong” summer, following its 
most profitable December quarter on record. 
He added that the relative strength of the US dollar and the end of most border restrictions had encouraged long-
haul travellers to make bookings to travel to Europe once more. 
“With Asian tourists now returning and a strong US dollar encouraging Americans to explore Europe, we’re seeing 
robust demand for Easter and summer 2023 flights,” he said. 
The bullish outlook comes as several European airlines have reported strong ticket sales, with few signs that the 
economic slowdown in Europe is hitting demand.
Chief financial officer Neil Sorahan said there had been no signs of economic worries hitting ticket sales. “If you 
look back to the global financial crisis it was evident that whatever people save money on, travel was not one of 
those things,” he said.
 Ryanair on Monday reported profit after tax of €211mn for the three months to the end of December, against a loss 
of €96mn a year previously, when border restrictions were still stifling travel.
Ryanair on track for ‘strong’ summer after reporting record profit
The results were a record, and came after particularly strong demand over the October half-term and peak 
Christmas and new year holiday season, Ryanair said.
The carrier said fares were strong “across the board”, and passengers paid fares 14 per cent higher than in the 
comparable quarter three years ago, before Covid-19 struck.
Ryanair’s record results came just 48 hours after smaller UK airline Flybe collapsed into administration for the 
second time in three years, leaving thousands of passengers stranded.
Ryanair and its rivals have said the failure or retrenchment of weaker players has opened up significant 
opportunities for other airlines as they emerge from the pandemic.
Europe’s leading low-cost airlines base their businesses on attracting passengers through comparatively cheap 
fares by keeping their own costs low and filling their planes.
Ryanair said on Monday it had driven down its unit costs in the fourth quarter to €30 per passenger excluding fuel, 
and that its planes were 93 per cent full over the period. 
“There have never been more opportunities than we are seeing at the moment, not only in the UK but all across 
Europe,” Sorahan said.
Ryanair reiterated its forecast of a profit after tax of between €1.325bn and €1.425bn for its financial year ending in 
March, but said it expected the final quarter to be lossmaking because Easter falls outside the period.
The airline said it expected 168mn passengers to fly in the 12 months to the end of March, which would be another 
record, and for this to rise to 185mn over the following financial year. 
Load-Date: January 30, 2023
End of Document
Flybe cancels all flights after entering administration for second time
Flybe cancels all flights after entering administration for second time
 
FT.com
January 28, 2023 Saturday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 522 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
UK airline  Flybe has collapsed into administration for a second time, less than a year after relaunching to connect 
underserved regional destinations.
The airline announced its closure in the early hours of Saturday morning, as it cancelled all its flights and urged 
passengers not to try to travel.
The administrators said 276 employees had lost their jobs. EasyJet, British Airways and Ryanair were offering 
discounted fares to stranded Flybe customers.
The sudden collapse means that lucrative take-off and landing slots at  Heathrow airport will be for sale as part of 
the insolvency process, and the airline’s administrators told the Financial Times that there was “a massive ‘for sale’ 
sign” on the company. 
Flybe only began flying again under  new owners in April 2022, after the original airline collapsed just as the impact 
of the coronavirus pandemic swept through the travel industry in  March 2020.
The carrier was bought from administrators EY in October 2020 by a company run by investor Lucien Farrell’s 
hedge fund Cyrus Capital. Cyrus had originally injected money into Flybe as part of a rescue spearheaded by Virgin 
Atlantic in 2019.
The relaunched airline was a significantly smaller operation, and operated flights on 21 routes to 17 destinations 
across the UK and EU on a fleet of eight leased aircraft.
Flybe cancels all flights after entering administration for second time
Some rival industry executives and aviation analysts had questioned the wisdom of restarting Flybe. Regional flying 
in the UK has often barely been profitable and rivals had already taken over many of the original Flybe’s viable old 
routes.
David Pike, an executive at administrator Interpath Advisory, explained the sale of the business would include slots 
at capacity constrained Heathrow airport.
He said the slots could only be sold alongside a sale of the business, and would not be available to buy on their 
own.
“Someone needs to come in and buy the UK business and/or the Amsterdam business. There needs to be a 
substantive business sale,” he said.
Flybe operated 86 daily slots per week at Heathrow, according to an industry executive.
Heathrow slots have previously traded for tens of millions of pounds, but Pike cautioned they were harder to value 
following the financial hit to aviation from the pandemic.
“Most slot transactions took place before Covid when market conditions were completely different,” he said. 
Pike said Flybe had suffered “significant” losses and a “cash drain” after suffering “a number of shocks”, including 
the late delivery of planes, and that “enormous efforts” to find new money or to sell the business had failed.
Paul Charles, a travel industry consultant, said he was not surprised that Flybe’s relaunch had failed. 
“It was resurrected for the purpose of clinging on to Heathrow slots and there was no major demand for its routes 
when up against domestic train services, Zoom, and other airlines,” he said.
Pike said money could be returned to Flybe’s shareholders following a successful sale, but only after its creditors 
were paid.
“Clearly shareholders are completely out of the money, unless the value achieved for the sale is so high as to pay 
everyone involved,” he said. 
Load-Date: January 30, 2023
End of Document
Investors’ Chronicle: EasyJet , Accrol, Fevertree
Investors’ Chronicle: EasyJet, Accrol, Fevertree
 
FT.com
January 27, 2023 Friday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1000 words
Byline: Investors’ Chronicle reporters
Body
BUY: EasyJet (EZJ)
Stronger winter trading means full-year profits should beat expectations at the budget airline, writes Michael Fahy.
Ryanair’s daily flight numbers last week were at 114 per cent of pre-pandemic levels, but EasyJet has been slower 
off the mark. Its daily flight numbers last week were only at 63 per cent of 2019 levels, according to Eurocontrol.
Not all of this is its fault, and the airline has been unlucky in that two of its main hubs — London Gatwick and 
Amsterdam — imposed capacity restrictions last summer to cope with the ramp up in activity. Amsterdam’s limits 
are still in place until April.
The airline’s  trading update, for the final three months of 2022, shows clear progress, though. Although it recorded 
another headline loss of £133mn, this was a £100mn improvement on the Covid-disrupted period a year earlier. 
Passenger numbers grew by 47 per cent on the year, and revenue per seat was up by 36 per cent. The average 
load factor (the ratio of passengers to available seats) rose by 10 per cent and ticket yield grew by 21 per cent.
On top of this, the company made more from add-ons — airline ancillary revenue also grew by 36 per cent, to 
£20.12 per seat. 
Its holidays arm (which launched at the end of 2019 but only really began operating in earnest last year) generated 
a £13mn profit, up from a loss of £1mn a year earlier. Demand from UK holidaymakers is strong, with 60 per cent of 
Investors’ Chronicle: EasyJet , Accrol, Fevertree
the summer holidays it had planned to sell already booked. This was based on the company increasing customer 
numbers by 30 per cent this year, but given the response it has now lifted this target to 50 per cent.
Chief executive Johan Lundgren said that it expects losses during the winter “to reduce significantly” compared with 
last year, meaning that over the full year to September it expects to beat the market’s current consensus of a 
£126mn pre-tax profit.
In the past month the airline’s shares have jumped by 50 per cent and although they currently trade at almost 27 
times FactSet’s consensus forecast earnings — well above their five-year average — the company is still in the 
early stages of its recovery. On next year’s consensus forecast of around 36p a share, they trade at a much more 
reasonable-looking 14-times earnings.
SELL: Accrol (ACRL) 
A strategic review has prioritised shareholder returns, yet earnings remain in negative territory, writes Mark 
Robinson.
Accrol prides itself on being the UK’s leading independent tissue converter. In other words, a producer of toilet 
tissue, kitchen towel, and biodegradable wet wipes.
Given recent history, you would imagine that market trends have been running in its favour, particularly as 
consumers ditch named brands in favour of value options. It’s true that the top line has risen appreciably since 
2019, but a positive transition from gross profits through to net earnings has proved elusive. The group’s interim 
sales surged through to the end of October, but the gross margin — at 18 per cent — is down by 6.7 percentage 
points year on year, continuing the slide that was evident at the group’s April year-end.
Accrol’s chief executive Gareth Jenkins said the group “successfully leveraged [its] supply position with customers 
to recover all additional costs incurred in the period”. But there were no apparent scale benefits flowing through to 
net earnings despite a 14 per cent increase in volumes.
To counter rising costs and supply chain disruption, the group has increased inventories by 77 per cent since the 
2021 half year. Net borrowing has also swollen through the period, although management points to a multiple 
equivalent to a manageable 1.5 times cash profits.
The outcome of a strategic review, undertaken in 2022 with the support of Deloitte, was published alongside the 
half-year figures. In short, it prioritises the construction of a sustainable paper mill and the return of cash to 
shareholders through dividends and/or share buybacks. Unfortunately, these ambitions seem at odds with the 
group’s  finances — last April’s quick ratio came up well short of the five-year average of 0.66, as per FactSet. 
Admittedly, the shares were marked up on results day, but the 23 per cent premium to net asset value is difficult to 
justify.
SELL: Fever-Tree (FEVR) 
The cost outlook for the drinks company looks challenging this year, which has hurt profit forecasts, writes 
Christopher Akers.
Fever-Tree shares were marked down by 10 per cent after the premium tonics and mixers supplier undershot 
consensus revenue growth forecasts and warned about the “material” impact of higher energy costs on glass 
manufacturing.
Total revenues rose by 11 per cent to £344mn in the year to December 31 2022, below analyst hopes of £357mn 
according to FactSet. Sales contracted by 2 per cent in the company’s biggest market, the UK, but rose by double-
digits in its other locales. The best showing was in the US, where there was a 23 per cent top line uplift.
Investors’ Chronicle: EasyJet , Accrol, Fevertree
Chunky cost inflation continues to cause difficulties for the business. Management expects “further double-digit 
percentage increases” in key costs this year and said that volatile energy prices will add £20mn to its glass costs in 
2023 compared to pricing in the first quarter of last year.
While Fever-Tree expects to deliver adjusted cash profits in line with expectations for 2022, forecasts for this year 
suggest a further softening of margins. Management set out guidance ranges of £390mn-£405mn for revenue and 
£36mn-£42mn for Ebitda for 2023, with annual cash profits only expected to be “in-line” with last year. 
RBC Capital Markets analysts said this guidance “is very disappointing given previous comments about further 
profitability improvements to come as freight costs eased and local supply in the US ramped up.” They added that 
the update “does not reassure” over Fevertree’s profitability trajectory.
We are also not reassured. And the valuation remains at unjustifiably lofty levels — the shares trade at 43 times 
forward earnings, according to FactSet.
Load-Date: January 27, 2023
End of Document
Wizz Air losses narrow as ticket prices rise
Wizz Air losses narrow as ticket prices rise
 
FT.com
January 26, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 464 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Losses at low-cost airline Wizz Air narrowed over the winter as ticket prices rose and demand for travel remained 
strong despite the economic slowdown.
The UK-listed airline on Thursday reported an operating loss of €155.5mn for the final three months of 2022, down 
from €213.6mn a year earlier.
Wizz Air’s chief executive József Váradi said passengers were willing to pay higher prices for their seats, with 
average fares running above both last year and 2019.
Revenue more than doubled compared with the previous year, from €408.4mn to €911.7mn, as the airline carried 
12.4mn passengers, up 60 per cent. 
Shares in the company fell 7 per cent to £28.12 by late morning on Thursday despite the upbeat news, reversing 
gains the previous day, which followed  easyJet’s bullish forecasts for the rest of the year. 
Wizz Air’s costs also rose significantly in the quarter, as it pushed ahead with an ambitious expansion plan that has 
seen it grow out of its eastern European origins to emerge as a leading player in European aviation.
Total operating costs in the most recent quarter rose 72 per cent to €1.06bn, as a higher fuel bill also added to 
operating expenses.
Wizz Air losses narrow as ticket prices rise
 Wizz Air said it expected to report a loss for its current financial year, which ends in March, but Varadi said he 
“remained confident” that the following year would be profitable. 
He said booking volumes were ahead of 2022 figures while pricing had been strong, adding to positive commentary 
from rivals including easyJet and Ryanair, which have both reported surging demand for travel despite the cost of 
living crisis.
“We remain very upbeat. We see that demand is there and we are expecting a strong revenue and demand 
environment going into the summer,” said Varadi.
He added that there had been no signs of a slowdown in consumer spending in any of the 54 countries Wizz flew 
to, and there was strong demand “across the board”.
“It seems people might be prepared to sacrifice on other consumer items . . . other than travel,” he said. 
Analysts at Goodbody said the release from Wizz Air contained fewer positive surprises than easyJet’s, and that the 
quarterly loss was higher than forecast. They also drew attention to Wizz Air’s unit costs, which even excluding fuel 
were still higher than before the pandemic. 
Holiday airline Jet2 on Thursday also added to the burst of positive commentary, as it said bookings strengthened 
through the winter.
The group said it expected to beat market expectations and forecast an annual profit for the year ending in March of 
between £370mn and £385mn
Jet2 said ticket prices were “significantly higher” than in the winter before the pandemic, and that “customers’ 
eagerness to take their much valued and anticipated holidays remains high”. 
The company’s shares rose 3 per cent to £12.10. 
Load-Date: January 26, 2023
End of Document
EasyJet forecasts return to profit as travel industry weathers economic downturn
EasyJet forecasts return to profit as travel industry weathers economic 
downturn
 
FT.com
January 25, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 487 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
EasyJet has forecast a return to annual profit after three years of losses following “strong and sustained” passenger 
demand as the travel industry weathers the economic slowdown.
Shares in  easyJet surged 10 per cent to 513.44p in early morning trading on Wednesday in London following the 
forecast as the low-cost airline said customers appeared to be “prioritising spending on holidays”.
It also reported three record-breaking weekends for sales revenue this month. 
The airline plans to expand its flight schedules progressively into the summer, and to return to pre-pandemic flying 
levels by the peak summer months between July and September.
Johan Lundgren, easyJet’s chief executive, said he was surprised by the resilience of consumer demand, but that 
people were prioritising destinations that offered value for money, including Turkey and Egypt.
He said this pent up demand would put the airline “firmly on the path to delivering a full-year profit”, and forecast the 
carrier would beat current market expectations.
Lundgren added that the airline was selling enough seats to fill five aircraft every minute during the busiest periods 
of its recent winter sale.
EasyJet forecasts return to profit as travel industry weathers economic downturn
The jump in easyJet’s shares took gains this year to more than 50 per cent as investors welcomed growing signs 
that demand for travel was withstanding the economic uncertainty. 
Other airlines also enjoyed rises in shares, with low-cost rival Wizz Air’s stock increasing 7 per cent, while British 
Airways owner International Airlines Group gained 3 per cent and Ryanair climbed 2 per cent. 
Alex Irving, an aviation analyst at Bernstein, said easyJet had offered an “optimistic” start to results season and 
expected it to be “the first of several strong prints”. 
Ryanair last week announced record bookings at the start of the year, and said there were “no signs” of a slowdown 
in consumer spending. The low-cost airline reports results next week.
“We expect the results season to reinforce recent messages from companies that record bookings are being taken 
in an environment of rising prices,” said analysts at Goodbody. “As such, we think market forecasts are likely to be 
raised for this year and next.”
The forecasts for a strong summer came as easyJet reported a pre-tax loss of £133mn for the final three months of 
the year, down from £213mn lost the previous year.
Lundgren put the improved year-on-year performance down to the resilience of demand for flying and strong 
revenue from extras such as charging for hand luggage, which was offset by higher fuel costs.
EasyJet flew 20.2mn seats in the quarter, up from 15.5mn seats one year earlier. Revenue rose 83 per cent to 
£1.47bn.
The airline forecast that the loss in its fiscal first half, which runs between October and March, would be 
“significantly better” than the year before, when the airline reported a pre-tax loss of £557mn as the coronavirus 
pandemic continued to weigh down on demand for travel.
Load-Date: January 25, 2023
End of Document
Is the airline industry bouncing back?
Is the airline industry bouncing back?
 
FT.com
January 25, 2023 Wednesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1288 words
Byline: Darren Dodd
Body
Today’s top stories
•
Germany is to supply  14 Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine as well as allowing allies to send their own, marking a 
significant increase in western military aid. Russia’s ambassador to Germany said the move was an 
“extremely dangerous decision” that “raises the conflict to a new level of hostilities”.
•
US states stepped up efforts to entice European clean energy businesses such as Germany’s  Marvel 
Fusion, with the promise of  deep tax breaks, despite opposition from Brussels. The Netherlands  opposes 
new EU money for subsidies, but the FT editorial board said the two blocs needed to find  common ground 
on subsidies and avoid beggar-thy-neighbour measures. 
•
MSC and Maersk, the world’s two largest container shipping lines that together control two-fifths of 
seaborne freight, are  ending their alliance as competition for transporting global trade heats up. 
Meanwhile, in China, weaker international demand for its goods has led to a rise in  shipping cancellations 
at its biggest ports, limiting the economic boom expected from its reopening.
For up-to-the-minute news updates, visit our  live blog
Good evening.
EasyJet’s forecast today of a  return to profit after three years of a pandemic-induced slowdown is the latest in a 
string of announcements confirming that air travel is well and truly  bouncing back.
Is the airline industry bouncing back?
Shares in the low-cost carrier surged 10 per cent, spurring rises in other airlines such as Ryanair, Wizz Air and BA 
owner International Airlines Group. EasyJet chief executive Johan Lundgren said customers appeared to be 
“prioritising spending on holidays” and added that the company was selling enough seats to fill five aircraft every 
minute during the busiest periods of its recent winter sale.
Ryanair told a similar tale last week, reporting  record bookings at the start of the year. “All the indicators are very 
strong,” company boss Michael O’Leary told the FT. “There is a lot of spending going on out there. Hotels are full, 
restaurants are full.”
The global picture is equally encouraging. Last week Avolon, the world’s second-largest jet lessor, said that China’s 
reopening would help drive air traffic to  pre-pandemic levels by the middle of the year. For every two seats of 
airline capacity added worldwide, one is in Asia, the company said. Company chiefs until recently had warned that a 
recovery to 2019 levels would not come before 2024 at the earliest.
The return of the  globetrotting Chinese, the world’s largest tourism population that had been cut off by zero-Covid 
restrictions, is probably the single best piece of news for the world’s airlines so far. In 2019, before the pandemic 
hit, 155mn travelled abroad and spent $255bn. The China Outbound Tourism Research Institute estimates 18mn 
will travel internationally in the first half of the year, followed by 40mn in the second. 
Asian airlines had already begun to  expand their flight options at the end of last year, forming new partnerships to 
cash in on the expected boom in demand. Bain Capital, meanwhile, is preparing to  relist Virgin Australia after it had 
collapsed during the pandemic.
Profits at aerospace companies such as Raytheon are also soaring as  demand for jet engines and parts takes off. 
Today Boeing reported that a flurry of jet deliveries last month was helping to  repair its finances after the blow of 
two fatal crashes.
However, there could still be some turbulence ahead. Air travellers in Europe face  “major” disruption as skies 
become congested because of the war in Ukraine, while volatile oil prices could pose a problem. But as airline 
results season gets under way, easyJet is unlikely to be the only carrier forecasting blue skies ahead. 
Need to know: UK and Europe economy
As we wrote in  Monday’s DT, economic indicators for the eurozone are now mainly pointing in the right direction. 
The S&P Global PMI survey showed an unexpected return to growth in business activity for the  first time since 
June, while German business confidence is  bouncing back.
The UK economy, however, continues to diverge from the brightening outlook in the EU and the US. The Treasury 
is trying to damp down calls for tax cuts after a new  downgrade to growth forecasts. The  UK PMI reading has hit a 
two-year low, businesses face a growing  risk of insolvency and  public borrowing has hit its highest level since 
monthly records began in 1993. Meanwhile,  producer price inflation has fallen to its lowest rate in almost a year. 
Damage from Brexit continues to become more apparent. The Eurostar boss said peak trains were being left  a 
third empty because of new border arrangements. 
Italian petrol station owners have shut their pumps in a dispute with the government over the  ending of fuel 
subsidies that shielded motorists from surging costs. 
Need to know: Global economy
Chinese households managed to  save a record $2.6tn last year as pandemic restrictions crushed consumer 
demand, but it is unclear so far if this may lead them to splash the cash in “revenge spending”. 
US Treasury secretary Janet Yellen said China was a “barrier” to ending the debt crisis in Zambia. The 
restructuring of the debt is seen as indicative of how China, the biggest creditor to the developing world, will 
respond to a  wave of defaults.
Is the airline industry bouncing back?
Argentina will be transformed by  gas and mining exports, according to its economy minister. The country is 
suffering almost 100 per cent inflation and is cut off from international markets after its ninth debt default in 2020.
Australian inflation hit a  33-year high of 7.8 per cent in the final quarter of last year, dashing hopes of a pause in 
interest rate rises.
Need to know: business
The “Big Three” international oilfield services groups — Halliburton, Baker Hughes and SLB — reported their most 
profitable 12 months since the height of the US shale boom as high energy prices led to  global drilling activity. 
Amazon workers in Coventry are  striking today over pay, the first time the company’s UK employees have taken 
industrial action. British unions have hitherto struggled to recruit in sectors such as logistics that account for a 
growing chunk of the country’s workforce — often on insecure terms and in difficult working conditions. 
Tensions are growing in the UK, Europe and the US between governments and pharma companies over drug 
pricing. An industry spokesperson said authorities had gone from appreciating rapid innovation during the 
pandemic to needing to  “squeeze” drugmakers because of financial pressure elsewhere.
The head of Europe’s largest chip company ASML, which plays a critical role in the global industry and has been 
caught up in US-China tech tensions, said demand for semiconductors would  recover in the second half of the year 
as it reported a record order backlog and forecast sales to increase 25 per cent in 2023. 
Microsoft gave a  downbeat forecast for the current quarter, reporting that demand for its cloud services fell 
noticeably in December as customers grew more cautious on economic prospects.
New “generative” AI systems that can produce content to order are raising concerns about potentially far-reaching 
social effects including the ability to produce large volumes of misinformation as well as making jobs disappear, as 
our new  Big Read explains. 
The World of Work
There are lots of stereotypes about millennials (those born between 1981 and 1996), the biggest one suggesting 
they have an overwhelming sense of entitlement. The new  Working It podcast discusses whether the tropes are 
really true. 
Some good news
The British Heart Foundation has sold an 18-carat gold Cartier watch found in a bag of donations for  almost 
£10,000. The sale is a record for  BHF, which raises funds for research into heart and circulatory disease.
Load-Date: January 25, 2023
End of Document
Eurostar boss says peak trains are left a third empty because of post-Brexit passport delays
Eurostar boss says peak trains are left a third empty because of post-Brexit 
passport delays
 
FT.com
January 24, 2023 Tuesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 818 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Transport Correspondent
Body
Eurostar is being forced to run trains more than a third empty during its morning peak because of delays caused by 
post-Brexit border arrangements, the rail service’s new chief executive has revealed. 
Gwendoline Cazenave told the Financial Times that demand had rebounded strongly from the coronavirus 
pandemic but stations in London, Paris and Brussels could not handle more passengers owing to stringent passport 
checks that were introduced in 2021.
“Customers [came] back overnight, but the system does not work anymore,” said Cazenave, a former senior 
executive in the French state railway who took over at Eurostar in October. 
The first trains leaving London and Paris every morning carry a maximum of 550 passengers in their 894 seats to 
prevent bottlenecks when several trains are leaving in quick succession to different destinations.
“If I uncapped it, we would sell all of the seats,” Cazenave said.
The service regularly runs 14 daily trains between Paris and London compared with 18 or more in 2019.  Eurostar 
has managed to operate more trains during some particularly busy periods, but said there are not enough 
resources at the border to return permanently to its pre-pandemic schedules. 
Eurostar boss says peak trains are left a third empty because of post-Brexit passport delays
Eurostar has added more staff and an extra French passport control booth has been installed in London. But the 
number of people who can flow through the border is constrained by the tight space of the international terminals at 
its stations. 
Despite these problems, Cazenave said passenger numbers returned to about 80 per cent of their pre-pandemic 
levels by the second half of last year.
While the service struggles with constraints, airlines are capitalising on surging demand. Europe’s largest carrier  
Ryanair plans to run a record number of flights this summer. 
“We cannot talk about growth if we are not able to cross the border in the right way. It should be solved, it has to 
be,” said Cazenave. 
Cazenave’s predecessor Jacques Damas ended his tenure with a blistering letter to UK MPs in which he warned 
the company was “locked into” charging higher prices to a smaller number of customers.
Cazenave takes a more emollient tone and is confident she can find solutions, including adding more of her own 
staff at borders and persuading border authorities to add more staff.
She said she did not agree that Eurostar was locked into a spiral of high prices and low passenger numbers.
“I am not focusing on driving yield rather than traffic . . . Eurostar is a growth project,” she said.
“We will find a way because everyone is very motivated, and is aware of the key role Eurostar plays in the mobility 
between the UK and mainland Europe.”
The company has trialled face identification to help streamline the process, while a new EU biometric scheme, 
which the travel industry feared could lead to even longer border checks, has been delayed. 
Having too many passengers to handle represents a notable recovery for Eurostar, which last year completed a 
merger with Thalys, a high-speed train company servicing France, Belgium and Holland, to form Eurostar Group.
Eurostar was forced to turn to shareholders including French state railway SNCF, Canadian institutional fund 
manager Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec, Hermes Infrastructure and the Belgian state rail operator for 
£250mn in financial support during the pandemic — double the amount ever taken out in dividends, according to 
the company. It also raised £500mn in commercial debt. 
The high cost of servicing this debt is weighing on the company, as is the rising price of electricity and track access 
charges, which taken together with other inflationary costs have added £130mn to annual outgoings. 
Eurostar was consistently profitable in the decade before the pandemic, but lost more than £650mn in 2020 and 
2021. The company has not yet disclosed figures for 2022 but Cazenave said it returned to an operating profit in the 
second half of 2022 and expects to report an annual profit this year.
Cazenave hopes to double passenger numbers across the Eurostar group from 15mn in 2022 to 30mn by 2030, 
and focus cross-Channel trains on routes linking four major European cities for growth: London, Paris, Brussels and 
Amsterdam. 
Amsterdam is a particularly attractive market, and Cazenave said she would prioritise adding an extra daily 
connection to London to try to win market share from airlines.
She said adding new direct routes between London and cities on the continent was not a priority. Drawing an 
analogy with the “hub and spoke” model used by big airlines to funnel passengers through large airports, she said 
travellers from the UK should see Eurostar services as the first leg on longer rail trips deep into the continent. 
Eurostar boss says peak trains are left a third empty because of post-Brexit passport delays
She said business travellers were increasingly willing to swap short-haul flights for the train, adding that previous 
assumptions that train trips must only be three hours or less to compete with planes had changed.
Load-Date: January 24, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair racks up record bookings as airlines defy recession
Ryanair racks up record bookings as airlines defy recession
 
FT.com
January 17, 2023 Tuesday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 538 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary has said there are “no signs” of the economic slowdown hitting airlines 
after the low-cost airline racked up record bookings at the start of the year.
Passengers were also paying up for higher fares as demand from consumers withstands slowing economic growth 
and a squeeze in the cost of living in the UK and across Europe. 
“All the indicators are very strong,” O’Leary told the Financial Times on Tuesday.  “There is a lot of spending going 
on out there. Hotels are full, restaurants are full,” he said. 
Ryanair reported 4.95mn bookings last week, the most in the airline’s more than 30-year history. “There is an 
outside prospect this week we might do 5mn for the first time,” he said.
No major airline has reported a significant slowdown in demand for flying despite the grim economic backdrop, a 
resilience that O’Leary put down to pent up demand for travel following pandemic border restrictions, high savings 
and still low levels of unemployment.
Avolon, the world’s second-largest jet leasing company, this week predicted that global air traffic would recover to 
pre-pandemic levels by the middle of this year, propelled by the reopening of China’s borders.
Ryanair is already back above its 2019 flying schedules, but O’Leary warned the recovery was still vulnerable to a 
sudden collapse in demand, potentially because of an escalation of the war between Russia and Ukraine, or a new 
flare-up in the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ryanair racks up record bookings as airlines defy recession
“There is undoubtedly strength in bookings and pricing at the moment. And if that continues through into Easter and 
the peak summer travel without any black swan event, then I think we could see all the airlines do very well in 
Europe this year,” O’Leary said.
Ryanair expects to carry a record 168mn passengers in the 12 months to the end of March, up from 149mn in its 
busiest year before the coronavirus crisis. 
Earlier this month the airline upgraded its earnings forecasts to profit after tax of between €1.33bn and €1.423bn, 
up from a previous guide range of between €1bn and €1.2bn.
O’Leary cautioned that profitability could be squeezed over the next 12 months as the airline would be more 
exposed to the volatile price of oil when some of its fuel hedges expire in April. 
But he said that for now passengers appeared willing to soak up much of these price rises through higher air fares.
“We are looking at fares rising at high single digits for the second year running [ . . .] I don’t think I have seen two 
years of rises like that,” he said. 
“We are waiting to see what could go wrong, because everything is steaming ahead,” O’Leary said. 
Airline shares have had a strong start to the year amid signs of resilient bookings, but the major European players 
including easyJet and British Airways owner IAG are still trading at a discount to their levels before the pandemic. 
Ryanair shares were on Tuesday trading at €14.70, their highest since May but below the €18 level of early 2020.
“I think there is still a lot of [investor] scepticism about oil prices, Covid and Ukraine [ . . .] nobody is out 
there [ . . .] saying ‘I know, let’s invest in the airline industry into the post-Covid recovery’. It will take a while and we 
have to deliver,” O’Leary said. 
Load-Date: January 17, 2023
End of Document
F@*$#*!
F@*$#*!
 
FT.com
January 12, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 332 words
Byline: Robin Wigglesworth
Body
Look, we’ve all sworn at inopportune times. It’s entirely understandable that even chief executives and CFOs 
occasionally find themselves cussing on quarterly earnings calls. Especially these days. 
Unfortunately, many services that transcribe earnings calls are a bit censorious, and render the occasional swear 
word as [expletive]. But that allows us to track how often people let rip without having to manually put together a list 
of all potential “bad” words. 
Using AlphaSense/Sentieo’s transcription search function, we can see that the “  polycrisis” of runaway inflation, 
pandemics, interest rate increases, supply chain snafus and wars helped lift swearing on earnings calls and 
investor days to a  new record high in 2022. Good job everyone. 
Sadly, when we first  looked into this last year it turned out that most of the redacted swear words were pretty plain 
vanilla, like “shit” and “bullshit”. And while the quantity hit a new high in 2022, the quality is probably just as low. C-
suites are crying out for  Armando Iannucci to spruce things up.
Nonetheless, it’s still quite the accomplishment to hit a new record, given that one of the all-time champion 
corporate swearers — T-Mobile’s John Legere — no longer works at the company.
Luckily, we still have Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary, who swore nine times on just one conference call back in July, 
including these gems on Heathrow and Boeing:
F@*$#*!
I’m not a customer of Heathrow, I have no time for the (expletive)(expletive) that comes out of Heathrow, which 
is one of the greatest overcharging monopolies anywhere in Europe at smarming on about need for large cost 
increases when they can’t burn a pizza in a brewery.. . . I do not have great confidence in the Boeing 
management in Seattle. In fact, I have very little confidence in them. And therefore I expect them to continue to 
(expletive) up deliveries or have delayed deliveries despite the fact that they have very few deliveries to make 
next year. But that’s where we are with Boeing.
Load-Date: January 13, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair forecasts take flight after bumper holiday season
Ryanair forecasts take flight after bumper holiday season
 
FT.com
January 5, 2023 Thursday
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 344 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair has upgraded its earnings forecasts after a bumper end to the year that saw stronger than expected 
demand for flying over the Christmas and new year holidays.
Shares rose 10 per cent on Thursday morning after the low-cost airline  said on Wednesday evening it expected to 
report profit after tax of between €1.325bn and €1.425bn in its current financial year ending in March, up from a 
previous guide range of €1bn-€1.2bn.
Ryanair was able to raise its forecasts after a bumper festive season, when it carried more passengers than 
expected and was able to charge comparatively high prices.
“Strong pent-up travel demand over the holiday season for the first time in three years, with no adverse impact from 
Covid or the war in Ukraine, stimulated stronger than expected peak Christmas/new year traffic and fares,” the 
airline said.
Ryanair forecast profit after tax of “close to” €200mn for the final three months of the year, its fiscal third quarter.
Analysts, industry executives and shareholders have been closely watching out for any signs that demand for flying 
might soften in the face of the economic uncertainty gripping Europe.
So far peoples’ taste for travel has withstood the cost of living crisis and runaway inflation, despite many airlines 
raising ticket prices.
Ryanair forecasts take flight after bumper holiday season
“On the strength of this evidence, demand for short-haul leisure travel in Europe remains healthy, and we are 
increasingly optimistic going into the next reporting season,” analysts at Bernstein said.
Ryanair did warn that its new guidance was “heavily dependent upon avoiding adverse events” in the first three 
months of 2023, such as a worsening of the war in Ukraine or new developments in the Covid pandemic.  
It added that it expected to make a loss in the first three months of the year, traditionally its weakest quarter, 
because the busy Easter travel season only falls in April.
The airline also flagged a “recent softening” in demand for flying out of the UK, potentially an early sign that demand 
for travel will soften outside of peak travel periods such as Easter and summer. 
Load-Date: January 5, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair swings to first-half profit and raises passenger forecast
Ryanair swings to first-half profit and raises passenger forecast
 
FT.com
November 7, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 437 words
Byline: Robert Wright in London
Body
Ryanair has given further evidence of its strong recovery from the pandemic, swinging to a first-half profit and 
raising its full-year passenger forecast.
Europe’s biggest low-cost airline on Monday reported pre-tax profit of €1.42bn for the six months to September 30, 
against a €100mn loss in the same period last year.
It also forecast a return to full-year profitability for the first time since the start of Covid-19 restrictions. It is expecting 
post-tax profits of between €1bn and €1.2bn for its 2022-23 fiscal year, with losses in the quieter second half of the 
year cancelling out some of the first-half profits.
The shares were up 37 cents — 3 per cent — in morning trading in Dublin, at €12.67.
 Ryanair has been relatively unaffected by the operational problems and the Heathrow airport passenger 
restrictions that affected some rivals over the summer.
Its revenues for the half year were €6.62bn, three times the €2.15bn for the six months to September 30 last year, 
when airlines were still affected by coronavirus restrictions. The figure is 23 per cent higher than for the same 
period in 2019.
It has also increased its forecast for passenger traffic for the year to March 31 to 168mn, from 166.5mn.
Ryanair swings to first-half profit and raises passenger forecast
Chief executive Michael O’Leary said Ryanair was experiencing “surprisingly strong bookings” for the current, third 
quarter of the year.
He told the Financial Times that he thought booking levels reflected a mixture of gains from rivals such as easyJet 
that have cut back operations and trading down by  cost-conscious travellers.
“There’s still a risk of adverse news on Covid or Ukraine,” O’Leary said. “But, without any negative developments, 
we’re seeing very strong forward bookings, which is unusual given the nervousness. There’s no evidence in our 
forward bookings of the nervousness about recession.”
The airline’s growth continues to be constrained by the challenges facing Boeing in delivering Ryanair’s large order 
of 737 Max aircraft.
Ryanair is due to receive a total of 51 of the aircraft before April, in time for the 2023 peak summer season. O’Leary 
said there was a risk that “about 10” of the aircraft would not be delivered. The deliveries are critical to achieving 
Ryanair’s projections of carrying 185mn passengers in the financial year to March 2024.
“As long as we get 45 to 46 aircraft by the middle of June next year, that target is still achievable,” O’Leary said. “If 
Boeing fails to hit that, I think the core of the growth for next year is now secure.”
There were still “production challenges” for the aircraft, he acknowledged.
“We’re trying to manage it on a weekly basis,” O’Leary said.
Load-Date: November 7, 2022
End of Document
Wizz Air losses widen but operations starting to ‘normalise’
Wizz Air losses widen but operations starting to ‘normalise’
 
FT.com
November 2, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 545 words
Byline: Robert Wright in London
Body
Low-cost carrier Wizz Air has reported widening losses in the first half of the year but has said its operations are 
starting to “normalise” after months of disruption.
In the July to September quarter the group returned to profit, but over the six months to September 30 it made an 
operating loss of €63.8mn, according to results published on Wednesday. This compares with a €51.9mn loss for 
the same period in 2021.
Revenue over the period more than doubled, from €880mn to €2.19bn.
 Severe disruption because of staff shortages and problems at airports pushed Wizz to an operating loss of €284mn 
for April to June, the first quarter of its financial year.
Chief executive József Váradi said the carrier, a fast-growing rival to low-cost operators such as Ryanair, was now 
in a position to become profitable.
“Our operational performance has recently normalised and we are now back in line with our historically low levels of 
cancellations and flight disruptions,” Váradi said.
Váradi added that the problems over the summer had been predominantly a result of issues such as shortages of 
air traffic controllers and delays at airport security. But he said the issues were now resolved.
Wizz Air losses widen but operations starting to ‘normalise’
“If you look at the last months of operation of the airline, we’re back to our standards,” Váradi said. “We’re operating 
our flights with no significant disruption.”
Wizz Air’s shares were down 60p — 3.5 per cent — to £16.75 at lunchtime in London. Shares have now fallen by 
64 per cent over the past year.
The airline filled 86.9 per cent of its seats in the first half, against a 75.3 per cent load factor for the same period of 
2021. Low-cost airlines typically aim to fill more than 90 per cent of their seats.
Váradi said Wizz had not yet reached the levels of fleet utilisation and load factors of before the pandemic.
But he expressed confidence that any remaining problems would be resolved by the time Wizz’s financial year 
ended on March 31.
“We’re quite confident we’re going to get there by the end of the financial year, by the start of the next financial 
year,” he said.
The company has been hit hard by rising energy costs after abandoning fuel price hedging during the pandemic. 
However, it has said it expects to have similar hedging strategies to competitors in place by April.
“Today we’re at a competitive disadvantage,” Váradi said. “As of April, we won’t have that competitive disadvantage 
versus our competitors.”
Wizz said on Wednesday that it expected to limit the increase in its non-fuel cost per available seat kilometre 
(CASK) — an industry standard measure of costs — for the October to March half of the current financial year to a 
relatively modest single-digit percentage rise above pre-pandemic levels.
The company has announced  expansion plans in the Middle East and has a joint venture in Abu Dhabi. It 
increased its fleet by 24 aircraft to 168 by the end of the quarter, focusing its growth on larger, longer-range 
A320neo and A321neo aeroplanes.
The strength of the US dollar forced it to revalue some assets, creating what it called an “unrealised” foreign 
exchange loss of €285mn for the first half, against €16.5mn for the same reason in the first half of 2021. The effect 
deepened the reported loss for the first half to €384mn, from €121mn a year earlier.
Load-Date: November 2, 2022
End of Document
Wizz draws up ambitious plans for flights from UK to Middle East and Asia
Wizz draws up ambitious plans for flights from UK to Middle East and Asia
 
FT.com
October 21, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 470 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Transport Correspondent
Body
Hungarian low-cost airline Wizz Air is drawing up plans for flights from the UK to the Middle East and Asia as part of 
an ambitious expansion into the long-haul market. 
The London listed carrier, which focuses on the European short-haul market, is planning trips out of the UK to 
destinations that could include the United Arab Emirates, Israel and Saudi Arabia. 
It will use some of the 47 new longer-range single-aisle A321XLR planes it has on order from Airbus on the routes, 
said Marion Geoffroy, the managing director of Wizz Air UK.
The narrow body jet took its first flight in June, with the aircraft slated to enter service in 2024, according to Airbus. 
“Of course, the UK would be a good market [for the XLR], and we’ve actually started the design of the potential 
network for XLRs and secured some designations to countries where we currently don’t fly to,” she said. 
The airline, founded in 2004 and listed in London in 2015, has grown to become a major competitor to Ryanair in 
Europe’s low-cost market.
But it has  suffered a difficult year and been badly exposed to the sudden rise in the price of jet fuel after 
abandoning fuel hedging during the pandemic. 
Its shares, which hit record highs in 2021, have fallen nearly 70 per cent this year, as investors bet on Ryanair 
dominating the European low-cost market. 
Wizz draws up ambitious plans for flights from UK to Middle East and Asia
However, Wizz’s problems have not stopped the airline from extending its ambitions beyond Europe and come as it 
pursues a wider strategy of growth in the Middle East, where it has set up a  joint venture in Abu Dhabi.
It has ruled out trying to crack the “overcompetitive” transatlantic market. There are also no plans to build long-haul 
networks used by traditional full-service airlines such as Emirates or Qatar Airways, Geoffroy said. 
Given the worsening economic outlook for all airlines, she said Wizz had to be “rational” and “opportunistic” with its 
growth plans.
“The macroeconomic environment forces everyone to be very rational about capacity,” Geoffroy added. 
The A321XLR has a range of 4,700 nautical miles and can fly for up to 11 hours, opening up routes traditionally 
served by wide-body planes to airlines that give priority to fuel efficiency and cheaper tickets. 
Several airlines including US carrier Jet Blue and Ireland’s Aer Lingus already fly transatlantic flights on slightly 
older Airbus A321LR single-aisle jets. 
Wizz plans to put more than 200 passengers on to the planes in the type of all-economy configuration typically used 
on shorter trips in Europe.
However, it is confident passengers will sacrifice comfort and in-flight entertainment for cheaper tickets. 
“Passengers are prepared to fly up to seven, eight hours onboard these aircraft . . . the lowest cost will be always 
more attractive than getting hot chicken or movies that you have seen already,” Geoffroy said. 
Load-Date: October 21, 2022
End of Document
Surging airfares test the tolerance of travellers
Surging airfares test the tolerance of travellers
 
FT.com
October 19, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 732 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger
Body
If you have already started thinking about a post-Christmas, Hanukkah or new year holiday, you are not alone. 
Close to one in five travellers is already looking at booking breaks more than three months ahead, according to 
travel search engine, Skyscanner. 
No matter where you live, though, it will cost you. Air fares are soaring from New Zealand and Brazil, to Europe and 
India. US inflation data published last week showed average airfares there had risen by 43 per cent over the past 
year. Of course, large parts of the world were still in Covid lockdown last year and a desperate airline industry might 
even have been prepared to give away seats if they could. So perhaps a 43 per cent rise is not that surprising. 
But it is significant that average fares in the US for September have not been this high since 2014.
And yet, people are still flying. In recent weeks airlines such as Delta and United, Ryanair, easyJet and IAG, have 
all testified to the strength of people’s appetite for travel, now and for the next few months. 
“Demand has not come close to being quenched,” said Delta’s chief executive Ed Bastian last week as he 
upgraded profit expectations for the fourth quarter. 
Airlines argue high fares reflect the higher costs of operation after a surge in fuel prices, the rise of the dollar and 
higher wage settlements with pilots, crew and other staff. The staff shortages in particular have encouraged most of 
the legacy airlines to take a cautious approach to rebuilding capacity. Anyone who remembers the chaos of last 
summer will understand their wariness to schedule flights that may not get off the ground.
Surging airfares test the tolerance of travellers
But there may also be a temptation to keep a cap on capacity to cash in after two years of pandemic losses. Just 
look at the bumper quarterly profits being announced by the likes of IAG, Lufthansa and others, who freely admit 
that higher fares are a factor.
Even the industry’s arch fare cutter, Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, has  said ticket prices will have to 
go up for several more years — and faster than even he had expected just a few months ago. 
But at some stage passenger patience with record ticket prices will surely run out. Historical data from Ascend by 
Cirium, the aviation analytics company, suggests there is “an inverse link between demand and fare change”, 
according to Cirium executive Rob Morris. The relationship was most clear in the last expansion cycle, he says, 
when fast growing low cost carriers were able to significantly reduce the cost of travel and stimulate demand above 
the long term growth trajectory.
This time round the trend is moving in the opposite direction — limited capacity is keeping airfares high and the 
question is whether or when that impacts demand. While demand is better than the industry had expected at this 
stage after the pandemic years, it is still fragile and not yet exceptional compared to pre-covid patterns. 
According to data from ForwardKeys, the travel data provider, tickets issued for flights in Europe in the fourth 
quarter had recovered to 76 per cent of 2019 levels in the week to October 12, while airline capacity was running 
higher at 88 per cent. And in the US, where demand seems more buoyant, there were still fewer passengers 
passing through airport security in October than in 2019. 
Nevertheless, there are indications that passenger behaviour is normalising. Fewer travellers are leaving bookings 
to the last minute, say both Skyscanner and Forwardkeys. But if passenger behaviour is returning to normal then 
tolerance of high fares could be expected to wear thin as people increasingly feel the effects of surging inflation and 
a darkening global economy.
It is absolutely normal for travellers to want to see family and friends over the festive period after a two-year 
absence. They may even shrug off the financial cost for the sake of spending time with loved ones again. But once 
the season is over the economic clouds will be that much darker. It is difficult to see what the pull will be to splash 
out on costly air fares when there is a whopping heating bill or mortgage to pay. 
Airlines may be thrilled with a better than expected autumn and the bounty that comes with it. But it would be 
premature to declare a definitive victory over aviation’s bout of Covid until passengers start making their travel 
decisions in the depths of what promises to be a long, hard winter.
Load-Date: October 19, 2022
End of Document
Strong dollar hits airlines as costs surge
Strong dollar hits airlines as costs surge
 
FT.com
September 30, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 925 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Transport Correspondent
Body
The strength of the US dollar is putting new pressure on airlines’ fragile balance sheets, driving up the cost of 
everything from the fuel used to power their planes to the aircraft themselves. 
A wave of dollar strength has sent currencies from the pound to the yen tumbling this year, and the US dollar index, 
which tracks the currency against its major peers, has recently traded close to 20-year highs. 
This represents a particular challenge for international airlines recovering from the pandemic, as they raise revenue 
in local currencies but pay much of their costs in dollars. 
“A strong dollar is a real challenge for the airline industry generally, as if we didn’t have enough challenges already, 
with Covid, Ukraine and the price of oil,” said Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary.
It means airline passengers may be hit further as the carriers try to pass on increasing costs to travellers through 
ticket prices, which have already soared after two years of border restrictions. 
Flights for the autumn half-term break in the UK next month are 42 per cent more expensive than those in 2019, 
according to figures from consumer group Which?
Although most airlines have currency hedges in place helping to offset the worst of the impact, the soaring costs 
leave many airline bosses with difficult calculations on how many planes to fly this winter as the global industry 
reels from vast losses.
Strong dollar hits airlines as costs surge
It is forecast to lose $10bn this year, bringing net losses over the past three years to $190bn, says the International 
Air Transport Association, the airline industry body. Only US airlines are forecast to turn a profit this year as a 
region. 
“The strong dollar will definitely have an effect on the profitability of airlines . . . I think it is going to be a tough 
winter, for sure,” said David Yu, an aviation financing adviser and professor of finance at New York University 
Shanghai.
Typical operating costs paid in dollars include jet fuel, maintenance and overhauling aircraft, which together add up 
to about 40 per cent of airlines’ outgoings, according to Iata.
On top of this, airlines’ capital expenditure is also dollar denominated. They pay in the US currency when they buy 
their aircraft, even from European aviation giant Airbus. In addition, companies that choose to lease their planes 
rather than buy them pay in dollars. 
“The US dollar is the currency of aviation, for better or for worse,” said Chris Tarry, of Ctaira, an aviation 
consultancy.
The growing pressures prompted three bosses this week to criticise the UK government for its economic policies 
that have sent the pound tumbling to a record low against the dollar. 
Shai Weiss, the chief executive of Virgin Atlantic, which has about 60 per cent of its costs in dollars, said the 
government should consider “reversing course” on the fiscal policies that spooked markets, while Ryanair’s O’Leary 
was typically forthright as he branded the Liz Truss government “nuts”. 
Willie Walsh, the former head of British Airways who now runs Iata, said the UK’s decisions would have a “massive 
impact on companies”.
However, the rise of the dollar is being felt across the world, as it has strengthened against nearly every G20 
currency this year. 
In India, the rupee has depreciated by 9 per cent, leaving airlines facing a “significant hit,” according to Vinod 
Kannan, chief executive of Vistara, India’s second-largest airline.
He said his airline’s costs have risen 15-20 per cent this year, when factoring in currency movements. 
“It has been tough, the rupee has depreciated and I have not been able to pass that all on directly to the consumer. 
So while the revenue side of the house is doing extremely well . . . the cost has also been significant, so that has 
put pressure on us from a P&L perspective,” he said. 
The problems are exacerbated by airlines facing an unusual combination of simultaneous rises in inflation, fuel and 
the dollar. 
In particular, the inflationary environment has combined with the strong dollar to push up the price airlines pay for 
new aircraft, often on order agreed years in advance.
Airlines and manufacturers including Boeing and Airbus typically agree contracts that include so-called “escalation 
clauses” that increase the price of planes between order and delivery, based on factors including the price of raw 
materials, inflation and exchange rates.
Industry executives say these contracts include limits to stop prices spiralling out of control, but prices can still rise 
significantly.
“A lot of these contracts were done five years ago . . . and they are getting escalated,” said Yu, of New York 
University Shanghai. “Some were pushed back for a while as airlines did not want to take aircraft [during the 
pandemic] . . . the end purchase price might be much more than you expected.”
Strong dollar hits airlines as costs surge
Virgin Atlantic’s Weiss said his airline had taken out protection against a fall in sterling “months ago”, while O’Leary 
said Ryanair was hedged until 2026 at €1.24 to the dollar. 
But airlines still face a tricky balancing act as they try to manage their pricing and flying schedules in the face of 
weakening consumer confidence. 
Iata’s Walsh said the volatility of jet fuel prices, which have not fallen in line with Brent crude since the summer, 
combined with the foreign exchange turmoil makes it “much more challenging” for CEOs. 
“I spent more than 20 years as an airline CEO and I have never been able to figure out what’s the best exchange 
rate between sterling and the dollar, or euro and the dollar,” he said. 
Additional reporting by Sylvia Pfeifer in London
Load-Date: September 30, 2022
End of Document
Airline bosses criticise UK government over fall in pound
Airline bosses criticise UK government over fall in pound
 
FT.com
September 27, 2022 Tuesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 733 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
The head of Virgin Atlantic has called on the UK government to “consider reversing” course after its mini-Budget 
sent the pound tumbling to a record low and undermined investors’ confidence in the economy. 
Chancellor Kwasi Kwarteng’s plan to borrow more to pay for the biggest package of tax cuts since the 1970s 
unleashed turmoil in financial markets, with the pound plunging to as low as $1.035 on Monday.
Virgin Atlantic chief executive Shai Weiss said on Tuesday that he was concerned about the direction of Prime 
Minister Liz Truss’s government since it took office less than a month ago.
“Truss said she would take difficult decisions upon entering into the role,” Weiss said. “Maybe they need to take 
more difficult decisions to reverse the decline of the pound and ensure this country is not left with . . . perceived 
weakness in international markets.
“Sometimes all of us in this room should be humble enough to say that if I said something that is not working, 
maybe I should reverse course. That is not a bad thing to do,” he added.
While the pound had already been dragged lower this year by the strength of the dollar, the currency’s decline 
accelerated after Kwarteng’s fiscal plan raised alarm over the sustainability of the UK’s public finances.
With many of their most significant costs, including fuel, priced in dollars, airlines are among the most exposed to 
sterling’s weakness. Sixty per cent of Virgin’s costs are in dollars, while it generates only 30 to 35 per cent of its 
revenue in the US currency. 
Airline bosses criticise UK government over fall in pound
Willie Walsh, head of global airline lobby group Iata and former head of British Airways, said he had “a lot of 
sympathy” for Weiss’s intervention. 
“I think his criticism is well founded, particularly the additional challenge it will create for his company, given he will 
have a lot of sterling revenues and significant dollar costs,” he said.
“It is very frustrating when you see these knee jerk government responses to some of the challenges they face. 
Clearly in an effort to make themselves look popular with the electorate, taking decisions that have massive 
economic impact on companies,” Walsh added.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary, a persistent critic of the UK government, said its economic policies were 
“all going in the wrong direction”.
“The Truss government has poured petrol on a bonfire with a budget that does not really make a lot of sense, and is 
likely to drive inflation further,” he said. 
The airline bosses’ interventions are the most outspoken criticism so far from the business world of the mini-Budget, 
which also scrapped a planned increase in corporation tax and cut the rate of tax for the country’s highest earners.
In an effort to calm financial markets, Kwarteng said on Monday that he would set out a  new strategy in November 
to put debt on a downward path.
But the chief executive of a FTSE 250 retailer said the timetable was too long. “When the chancellor says I’ll 
respond to the market’s concerns in eight weeks . . . it just isn’t good enough,” he said.
“I don’t think there’s an easy way out, but the economy does require the re-establishment of confidence [in the 
government’s fiscal policy].”
Kwarteng on Tuesday sought to reassure UK bankers, insurers and asset managers, telling them that he was 
“confident” his economic strategy would work.
After plunging almost 5 per cent on Monday, the pound clawed back some of the decline to trade at $1.082 on 
Tuesday. Yields on UK government bonds, which have surged since the fiscal plan was announced on Friday, were 
lower on Tuesday. 
But Weiss said that “the totality of the impact has not been very good for the country . . . I am not telling [Kwarteng] 
what to do. But they need to stabilise the economic affairs of our country.” 
 Virgin was partially insulated because it took out protection against a fall in sterling “a few months ago”, he added. 
“We anticipated a potential decline in the pound and took financial positions which will allow us to benefit should the 
pound get to parity [with the dollar] . . . I wish we had done more.
“We are apprehensive, but for the next six to 12 months our position is slightly cushioned.” 
Weiss was speaking as Virgin Atlantic announced plans to join the SkyTeam airline alliance, giving up its status as 
an independent airline but offering the opportunity for new sales as it partners with other carriers.
Additional reporting by Oliver Barnes
Load-Date: September 27, 2022
End of Document
Germany makes €760mn profit from Lufthansa rescue
Germany makes €760mn profit from Lufthansa rescue
 
FT.com
September 14, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 417 words
Byline: Madeleine Speed and Philip Georgiadis
Body
The German government has reaped a €760mn profit from its rescue of Lufthansa at the height of the coronavirus 
pandemic, underlining the recovery of the country’s flag carrier.
Germany’s Economic Stabilisation Fund spent €300mn on shares in Lufthansa in 2020 as part of a €9bn rescue 
package for the airline, whose revenues collapsed as the governments closed down air travel in an effort to stop the 
spread of Covid-19.
The government has been gradually trimming its 20 per cent stake and late on Tuesday disclosed that it had sold its 
remaining 9.92 per cent holding. It has made proceeds of more than €1bn from selling its entire stake, comfortably 
exceeding the size of its investment.
 Lufthansa repaid the last of its bailout ahead of schedule in November last year, paving the way for Berlin to 
dispose of its stake ahead of the October 2023 deadline it had set. 
As the threat from the pandemic recedes, Lufthansa is on track to make its first annual profit since Covid-19. It 
generated a net profit of €259mn in the three months to the end of June, compared with a loss of €756mn in the 
same period last year. 
Lufthansa chief executive Carsten Spohr said that “the stabilisation of Lufthansa was successful, and is also paying 
off financially for the German government and thus for the taxpayer”. 
Germany makes €760mn profit from Lufthansa rescue
Its shares have significantly outperformed European rivals this year in the face of rising fuel prices and recession 
fears. Lufthansa has fallen 10 per cent, while Air France-KLM has dropped 30 per cent, British Airways owner IAG 
is down 33 per cent and easyJet 43 per cent. 
The rescue of Lufthansa was one of several for  airlines across Europe, including in France and Italy, as 
governments stumped up billions of euros.
The bailouts underlined the strategic importance governments attached to airlines, which are also significant 
employers. A willingness of European countries to take equity stakes contrasted with the approach of US and UK 
governments and led to a backlash from some competitors.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of low-cost Irish airline Ryanair, said the state support amounted to subsidies that 
would prop up inefficient airlines and distort competition. 
Despite returning to profit last quarter, Lufthansa has not been without its travails this year. The carrier lost tens of 
millions of euros when its ground staff went on strike in July. This week, pilots agreed to no further industrial action 
until next year after the airline promised to increase their pay by €980 a month. 
Load-Date: September 15, 2022
End of Document
IB TOK class: Ryanair forces South African customers to prove ID with Afrikaans test
IB TOK class: Ryanair forces South African customers to prove ID with 
Afrikaans test
 
FT.com
September 11, 2022 Sunday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 188 words
Body
This article picked by a teacher with suggested questions is part of the Financial Times free schools access 
programme. Details/registration  here. 
Specification: 
IB DP TOK themes & AOKs  Language,  History,  Knowledge & the knower,  Human sciences
Relevant BQ  Values,  Perspectives
Key terms and ideas Enforced use, Exclusionary, Unconscious triggering
Investigating Issues   Language & identity
Exhibition prompt IAP-24 (context)
Click to read the article below, study the images and then answer the questions:
 Ryanair forces South African customers to prove ID with Afrikaans test
•
It is easier to ‘be yourself’ in your first language, or a second language (if you have one)?
•
What have South African passengers been asked to do when travelling on Ryanair flights, and why? 
•
Why has this ‘unconsciously triggered’ reactions from many passengers? 
IB TOK class: Ryanair forces South African customers to prove ID with Afrikaans test
•
What does it reveal about the importance of being culturally aware, and having an understanding of 
history? 
•
What does the article indicate about the role language plays in determining our identities, and the 
consequences of cultural insensitivity? 
Michael Dunn,  theoryofknowledge.net
Load-Date: September 11, 2022
End of Document
Airlines pay their biggest ever premium for jet fuel
Airlines pay their biggest ever premium for jet fuel
 
FT.com
September 7, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 428 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Airlines are paying the biggest ever premium for jet fuel, putting pressure on their balance sheets and driving up 
ticket prices for passengers.
Jet fuel was 50 per cent higher than Brent crude oil at the start of this month, with airlines paying more than $140 a 
barrel for fuel even as global oil prices fell towards $90, according to the International Air Transport Association. 
“This is at levels I do not recall ever seeing before,” said Willie Walsh, the former boss of British Airways who now 
runs Iata. 
“We had expected this spread to reduce as more jet fuel supply became available, but clearly the recovery in 
demand is stronger than the recovery in production of jet fuel,” he added. 
The price premium for jet fuel over crude oil averaged 17 per cent between 2009 and 2019, Walsh said. 
It had risen as high as 60 per cent this year, which had “continued to put pressure on airline costs base”, Walsh 
said. 
Russia was among the world’s largest exporters of oil “distillates”, which include diesel and kerosene jet fuel.
Europe was already a big distillate importer even before Russia’s invasion of Ukraine changed the dynamics of 
energy markets, while several refineries in Europe closed during the pandemic. 
Airlines pay their biggest ever premium for jet fuel
The resulting supply crunch and sharp rise in prices have put further pressure on airlines’ fragile balance sheets: 
fuel typically accounts for between 20 and 25 per cent of their operating costs. 
Walsh said the high cost of fuel “ultimately gets reflected in ticket prices”, echoing the sentiments of Ryanair chief 
executive Michael O’Leary, who has warned ticket prices are likely to rise for years. 
Chloe Lemarie, an analyst at Jefferies, said airlines had responded to rising fuel prices by turning to newer and 
more fuel efficient aircraft, while keeping older jets in storage. “This is a way in which airlines have been able to limit 
the fuel intensity of their operations,” she said. 
Some airlines also had more insurance against rising prices. 
Ryanair had hedged 80 per cent of its expected fuel requirements until March 2023 at $65 a barrel before the 
Russian invasion, while rival Wizz Air had no hedges in place. Ryanair shares have fallen 30 per cent this year, 
while Wizz’s are down 55 per cent. 
Still, Walsh said forward ticket bookings remained strong despite growing economic uncertainty, and that he felt the 
outlook for the industry was still “positive” as it emerged from the disruption caused by the pandemic. 
“It is a challenging environment, but I think most airline management teams would be looking at the positives,” he 
said. 
Load-Date: September 12, 2022
End of Document
Directors’ Deals: On the Beach boss buys as consumer confidence wanes
Directors’ Deals: On the Beach boss buys as consumer confidence wanes
 
FT.com
September 2, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 644 words
Byline: Christopher Akers and Michael Fahy, Investors’ Chronicle
Body
Holiday retailer  On the Beach has had a tough couple of years, hit by the shutdown of the travel industry during the 
pandemic and by the disruption that characterised the sector throughout this year. Its weak share price 
performance reflects this, with the shares having dropped by 65 per cent over the past 12 months. 
In the company’s latest results for the half-year to March 31, revenue boomed by more than 1,100 per cent to 
£53mn and the company’s pre-tax loss narrowed significantly to £7mn as the business benefited from pent-up 
holiday demand, despite trading being impacted by the Omicron variant. Management said that it expected a return 
to profit in the second half of the year, and that summer bookings were more than a fifth higher than pre-pandemic 
levels. 
But that was back in May, before the cost of living crisis really affected many. 
Data provider GfK’s consumer confidence index fell to negative 44 for August, the worst since records began in 
1974. It is unclear yet as to what extent this will hit On the Beach’s top line. On the plus side, the company’s biggest 
(according to broker Numis) seat supplier Ryanair hasn’t fared as badly as others with flight disruption. 
Founder and chief executive Simon Cooper is clearly bullish on the outlook for On the Beach. He picked up just 
under £2mn-worth of shares in the company on August 19 at 130p a share, through the closely associated 
Hawksford Trustees Jersey. This takes his holding to 5.6 per cent of total share capital.
Directors’ Deals: On the Beach boss buys as consumer confidence wanes
Panmure Gordon analyst Alex Chatterton is more reticent about the company’s fortunes. He said in a recent 
research note that while the shares look cheap compared to their pre-pandemic valuation, “there are structural 
issues such as its nearest peer Loveholidays now having a similar number of ATOL [Air Travel Organiser’s Licence] 
passengers and a lack of control over flight supply”. Panmure cut its target price down from 334p to 160p in the 
note. 
 Discounts on offer at AO World
There is an argument to be made that any director purchase of shares through a placing or equity raise should not 
be considered all that indicative if they’re being picked up at a discount. After all, it’s in their interests to be involved, 
otherwise their existing holding will be diluted. 
However, a purchase on the scale of that recently made by  AO World non-executive Chris Hopkinson still takes 
some commitment to the cause. 
Hopkinson bought 2mn shares in the online white goods retailer at 43p a share – a discount of around 38 per cent 
on the closing price in the week preceding the placing announcement in July. The former City analyst now owns 
4.37 per cent of the company. 
AO World raised £37.3mn in funding from institutional and retail investors via the placing, which was undertaken to 
“increase liquidity back to historic levels” after the company embarked on a restructuring that involved the closure of 
its German business and a rationalisation of UK operations, with a view to saving at least £25mn by 2025.
AO World’s focus has shifted much more keenly towards profitability from growth recently. The company 
announced “a strategic pivot to focus on cash and profit generation” in mid-August as it revealed a full-year  pre-tax 
loss of £37mn, compared with a profit of £20mn in the prior year.
AO World’s share price has fallen by 82 per cent over the past 12 months, not recently helped by an increasingly 
tough outlook for retailers. 
Following its results, analysts at Panmure Gordon queried whether AO World’s balance sheet is strong enough to 
see it through without another raise, given that it burned through about £48mn of cash last year and will incur 
closure costs related to its German operation this year. Shore Capital suggested Currys or Marks Electrical might 
be better bets for investors, as both are expected to achieve higher margins over the short term. 
 
Load-Date: September 5, 2022
End of Document
Airlines braced for grim winter as slowdown threatens recovery
Airlines braced for grim winter as slowdown threatens recovery
 
FT.com
August 30, 2022 Tuesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 563 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Airlines are braced for a grim winter after struggling under the weight of booming demand for travel in the summer 
as the economic slowdown threatens their recovery from the pandemic.
The dire outlook has prompted warnings that passenger numbers could fall as household disposable incomes come 
under pressure from high inflation and soaring energy bills. 
Despite upgrading its passenger forecasts, London’s Gatwick said the uncertainty on the economy was a big threat 
to an industry already shaken by rising fuel costs and staff shortages. 
“It could impact the overall propensity for travel,” said Jim Butler, Gatwick’s chief financial officer. 
Although airlines have not reported a significant hit to bookings, he stressed he was “cautious about what we might 
see in the winter or next year”. 
While it might not affect many people’s ability to take a big annual holiday, Butler said, it could weigh on demand for 
“the second or third trip”. 
One senior European airline executive said the “outlook is still very uncertain” for the winter, particularly as the end 
of the summer is never a strong booking period.
He expected less demand for leisure travel in the fourth quarter, including a reduction in shorter city breaks. 
Airlines braced for grim winter as slowdown threatens recovery
Instead, he expects bookings to cluster around typically busy periods, such as school half-term holidays and 
Christmas. 
It would mean a further blow to airlines and their share prices, which have been under pressure even as demand 
surged over the summer with airports and carriers struggling to cope with a flood of bookings.
The MSCI index of European airline shares has lost 15 per cent this year, with major airline groups including British 
Airways owner IAG, Ryanair and Air France-KLM down about 30 per cent. 
“There is a lot of negativity on airline stocks . . . people are saying you don’t usually buy airlines into a recession,” 
said Stephen Furlong, an analyst at Davy. 
The revenue of the seven airlines covered by credit rating agency Moody’s in 2009 declined by about 20 per cent in 
the recession that followed the financial crisis, and operating profit fell by 50 per cent. 
But Furlong said the industry is now in an unusual position, with a weakening economic outlook coinciding with 
pent-up demand for travel that has not shown any signs of slowing down following two years of travel restrictions. 
No major airline has publicly reported a slowdown in bookings. 
“People are hugely worried about the macro, and yet the numbers are really good,” he said.
Bjorn Tore Larsen, the chief executive of new Norwegian long-haul airline Norse Atlantic, said a recession would “of 
course” hit demand for travel, but that travelling was still “very high on people’s lists”. 
“I think many people would go for that weekend away, rather than buy a new TV,” he said in an  interview in August. 
There is also scope for airlines to recover more of their pre-pandemic business, analysts at Moody’s said in a recent 
report. 
Some countries in Asia, notably China, have moved towards easing the last remaining Covid-era travel restrictions, 
while corporate travel has still not returned to pre-pandemic levels. 
“While ongoing recovery does not make the industry immune to recessionary pressures, we believe that because of 
these pandemic-related dynamics, the earnings of the industry would not fall nearly to the extent that they did in the 
last recession,” Moody’s said. 
Load-Date: August 30, 2022
End of Document
Heathrow’s hopelessness is its faux helplessness
Heathrow’s hopelessness is its faux helplessness
 
FT.com
August 17, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 688 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
“Hopeless Heathrow” is what Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary dubbed the airport on Tuesday when it extended a 
summer cap on passenger numbers to the October half term.
O’Leary rarely misses a chance to have a dig at rivals — often rightly. But the passenger cap,  introduced in July 
and  lengthened on Monday, is not what makes Heathrow hopeless.
Flight cancellations are down markedly, according to industry data. Punctuality has improved. Baggage delays 
appear to be easing.
Clearly, there will be some hit from the 100,000 a day departing traveller limit, although few hard financial details 
are available. Heathrow only earns revenue from passengers when they pass through the airport. However, 
Emirates’ dire prediction of  “airmageddon” when the caps were first announced in July looks wide of the mark.
Most of the industry’s hurt will come not from Heathrow’s cap but the airlines’ self-inflicted capacity cuts. British 
Airways, Heathrow’s biggest user, trimmed its overall forecasts for the year from 80 per cent of 2019 capacity levels 
to 78 per cent when it reported earnings a fortnight ago. Break that down and of the 18 per cent cut to May-October 
flight numbers, only 0.5 percentage points were because of the cap. 
The financial impact is not clear-cut either. Analysts argue that a more limited supply of flights for last-minute 
travellers will, in general, mean higher fares per passenger. Pricing trends for airfares have been firm. A day after 
the “airmageddon” announcement, Emirates agreed to play nice. 
Heathrow’s hopelessness is its faux helplessness
That all said, service has fallen short. If it had not, there would not be a cap in the first place. 
Sure, other airports have instituted restrictions: Amsterdam Schiphol, Frankfurt and Gatwick all have similar 
schemes. But with Heathrow, there is the distinct sense that nothing is ever the airport’s fault.
Resourcing? Its security staff were due to be back to pre-pandemic levels by the end of last month. The shortfall 
was  because of ground handlers “who are contracted by airlines”. 
Poor punctuality? Down to “delays at other airports and airspace congestion across Europe”. Security queues? 
More leisure travellers who take more luggage and are less aware of travel rules, such as what to do with liquids. 
The passenger limits announced on Monday were made “after consultation with airlines”: a response, perhaps, to a 
sense that the previous round was imposed on the rest of the industry. 
But the fact is that airlines adjusted their schedules to what they thought they could cope with before Heathrow 
introduced its cap because of a  government amnesty scheme that allowed them to hand back slots temporarily. 
Since the airlines are the ones that hire the ground-handling companies — or in BA’s case, do the ground-handling 
— you would think they could judge their own flight capacity (although, admittedly, there will be incentives to over-
book). 
It was only after that exercise that Heathrow instituted its cap, in effect saying that it knew better. It seems more 
likely that Heathrow knows the limits of its own operations rather than airlines’, which did not buy the excuse in any 
case. BA’s owner International Airlines Group said bluntly in its latest results presentation to analysts that the 
capacity cap was “caused by Heathrow Airport Limited security staff shortages”. 
There are obviously industry-wide issues, and more than enough blame to go round. But Heathrow’s role as the 
infrastructure operator is to co-ordinate everyone else involved to make sure it runs smoothly. That is what it 
belatedly did with the capacity cap. It is what it is doing with a review of ground handling launched last week.
Heathrow says it was not until it hit 100,000 passengers a day that it knew the airport’s network of infrastructure 
providers could not cope. That should have been anticipated earlier. Airlines started cutting capacity months before 
it did. 
The cap is not what makes Heathrow hopeless. It is its failure as the UK’s flagship airport to take responsibility 
sooner for the troubles that would unfold both in its terminals and on its Tarmac that rankles. 
cat.rutterpooley@ft.com@catrutterpooley
Load-Date: August 17, 2022
End of Document
The thirst for freedom in Belarus is unquenchable
The thirst for freedom in Belarus is unquenchable
 
FT.com
August 7, 2022 Sunday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 799 words
Byline: Tony Barber
Body
The peaceful pro-democracy protests that swept through Belarus in August 2020 evoked memories of Solidarity, 
the mass movement that had arisen in neighbouring Poland 40 years earlier. The focus of discontent was identical: 
a repressive regime, aligned with Moscow, that mistreated citizens and brought shame on the nation. Even the 
patriotic colours on display in the protests were the same in Minsk as in Warsaw — white and red.
Two years on, the parallels between Belarus and Poland appear even more striking. Just as the Polish communist 
authorities suppressed Solidarity under martial law in December 1981, so the regime of  Alexander Lukashenko has 
carried out a ferocious crackdown on the democratic opposition of Belarus. The prospect of any reprieve seems as 
remote as in Poland four decades ago, not least because relations between western countries and the Kremlin are 
as bad now as in the early 1980s — or even worse, with a war raging in Ukraine.
In 1989, however, Poland liberated itself from communism with not a drop of blood shed. It was the prelude to a 
“springtime of nations” in central and eastern Europe, whose peoples rose up for national independence and civic 
freedoms. Desperately bleak as the outlook is today, is there any chance that something similar could occur in 
Belarus by the end of the 2020s?
Much as events in Poland and Belarus resemble each other, the differences are important. One precondition for 
Poland’s turn to freedom was the ascent to power in 1985 of Mikhail Gorbachev, a Soviet leader who, unlike his 
predecessors, did not crush dissent in nominally friendly countries with tanks, as in Budapest in 1956 and Prague in 
1968. As long as Vladimir Putin rules Russia, the prison-like conditions prevalent in Belarus are unlikely to change.
The thirst for freedom in Belarus is unquenchable
Another difference is the extreme strategic vulnerability of Belarus. It has been locked into a “union state” with 
Russia since 1999. Lukashenko drew two years ago on Russian financial and political support to stamp out the 
protests that followed his fraudulent election victory. As a result, he fell more heavily into  Putin’s debt than at any 
time since his dictatorship began in 1994. In tandem with the full-scale invasion of Ukraine, Putin has placed 
Belarus under Russian military control.
A third point is that even though Wojciech Jaruzelski, the general who served as Poland’s Communist party leader, 
was reviled for imposing martial law, he did not employ Lukashenko’s gangster-like methods of rule. The tyrant of 
Belarus ordered the hijacking of a Ryanair plane last year to arrest an opposition activist. He orchestrated a surge 
of Iraqi, Syrian and other migrants to Poland’s border.
Whereas the jails of Belarus are full of Lukashenko’s critics, Jaruzelski declared an amnesty in July 1984 that freed 
hundreds of political prisoners. To be sure, it was a limited measure. Dissidents such as Adam Michnik were soon 
back in jail. The regime’s secret police kidnapped and murdered Poland’s most popular pro-Solidarity priest. 
But the amnesty preceded the era of Soviet liberalisation under Gorbachev. It was a sign that Jaruzelski was 
seeking a way out of the stalemate with Polish society created by the ban on Solidarity. Nothing similar is to be 
expected from Lukashenko.
At the same time, there are grounds not to lose all hope for the people of Belarus. Their desire for change 
represents the delayed awakening of a nation to which independence came as something of a surprise when the 
Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. By now this process is irreversible. Furthermore, the anti-Lukashenko mood of 
Belarusian society is not anti-Russian. A more enlightened leader in Moscow might understand that.
The differences with Poland in 1980-81 are instructive. Unlike the democratic Belarusian opposition, Solidarity 
became increasingly outspoken under the influence of radical activists. At a national congress in September 1981, 
Solidarity issued an appeal to the workers of eastern Europe to follow the Polish example and set up free trade 
unions. Tass, the official Soviet news agency, denounced the appeal as the work of “a whole conglomerate of 
counter-revolutionaries, including agents of imperialist secret services”.
Even though its leaders are either in prison or have fled abroad, the Belarusian opposition has not become 
radicalised. Its basic demands are for free elections, individual liberty and justice. Today these rights seem far out 
of reach in  Belarus. But they are not permanently unobtainable. Should change come, perhaps it will happen 
because they are the same rights of which Russia itself is in sore need. 
Letter in response to this article:
 How Lukashenko bullies Belarus trade unionists /  From Sharan Burrow, General Secretary, International Trade 
Union Confederation, Brussels, Belgium
Load-Date: August 11, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair warns days of cheap fares are coming to an end
Ryanair warns days of cheap fares are coming to an end
 
FT.com
July 25, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 468 words
Byline: Jude Webber in Dublin and Leke Oso Alabi in London
Body
Ryanair swung back into profit in its first quarter but with continued uncertainty over the Ukraine war and Covid-19. 
Europe’s biggest budget carrier warned “the days of €9.99 fares are probably coming to an end”.
The Dublin-based  airline posted profit before exceptional items of €170mn in the three months to June, from a loss 
of €273mn in the same period last year and well above the consensus market forecast of €157mn.
However, that was still well below the €243mn pre-pandemic profit in the first quarter of the 2020 fiscal year.
Chief executive Michael O’Leary warned that the war and potential for new Covid-19 outbreaks ahead meant the 
recovery was “strong but still fragile”.
Nevertheless,  Ryanair has locked in cost savings and had secured a “massive competitive advantage” through fuel 
and other hedging, chief financial officer Neil Sorahan told the Financial Times.
In addition, Ryanair is taking delivery of 50 new Boeing 737 higher-efficiency, lower-emission aircraft this winter, “so 
I believe we’ll perform well in a recession, if there is one”, he added.
While Ryanair is not cancelling flights, Sorahan warned that air traffic control and other airport problems meant 
passengers could still expect summer  delays at European airports that have inflicted misery on holidaymakers in 
recent weeks.
He suggested passengers will also have to get used to higher fares.
Ryanair warns days of cheap fares are coming to an end
“Fuel has gone from $40 a barrel to over $100 a barrel. So it’s not credible that we will continue to offer those kinds 
of terms in a high-fuel environment,” he said. “The days of the €9.99 fares are probably coming to an end.” 
Passenger numbers reached 45.5mn in the first quarter, and the airline had its busiest month ever in June. Sorahan 
said Ryanair remained on track to reach 165mn passengers this financial year.
Stephen Furlong, airlines analyst at Davy stockbrokers in Dublin, said the airline’s market share gains as Covid-19 
restrictions have eased — such as a 14 per cent rise in Italy — were “staggering”.
Ryanair said its net debt had fallen to €0.4bn from €1.45bn at its March 31 year-end.
Without the Ukraine war, which hit Easter passenger numbers, “we probably would have been on track for 
something like pre-Covid [levels]”, Sorahan said. 
Ryanair, which has been able to bounce back quickly because it cut salaries rather than dismissing staff during the 
pandemic, said it had agreed pay restoration deals with 80 per cent of pilots and 70 per cent of cabin crews.
This summer, it is operating 73 of the low-emission 737 aircraft, which it says deliver 4 per cent more seats but burn 
16 per cent less fuel and are 40 per cent quieter.
“I think the message to our customers is that we have the latest technology and voluntary carbon offsets,” Sorahan 
said. “That’s the way to fly. People are not going to stop flying.”
Load-Date: July 25, 2022
End of Document
Planes, trains and automobiles
Planes, trains and automobiles
 
FT.com
July 25, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1442 words
Byline: Darren Dodd
Body
Good evening
Nowhere is the term “disruption” more apt than when discussing the UK and European travel industry as it struggles 
to cope with the surge in demand in the first restriction-free summer of the pandemic era.
UK motorists have had a torrid time struggling to board trains or ferries to France as a combination of post-Brexit 
border checks and staff shortages led to a “  critical incident” being declared at Dover on Friday as traffic backed up 
on the M20 motorway.  
The port blamed inadequate staffing on the French side, while the French pointed out that delays were inevitable 
given the UK’s choice of a hard Brexit. It has led to  processing time at the border rising from 58 seconds per car 
pre-Brexit to 90 seconds today. And as problems at Dover eased, focus has switched to the port of Folkestone, the 
new “  hotspot of holiday hell”.
Flying has become equally burdensome. Although there have also been problems in the US, it is Europe that has 
become  the epicentre of disruption this summer as staff shortages hit airlines, airports and ground services such as 
baggage handling. Today  Lufthansa ground staff announced a 26-hour “warning strike” over wages this week after 
pay talks broke down. 
There are some signs that the disruption is hitting people’s appetite for travel, with  demand for flying falling among 
some of Europe’s largest carriers, according to data published last week. UK regulators meanwhile have warned 
about “  harmful practices” in how they treat passengers, threatening action if they did not handle flight disruption 
more effectively.
Planes, trains and automobiles
The lingering threat of Covid remains, as do the uncertainties from the war in Ukraine.  Ryanair warned today that 
the recovery was “strong but still fragile,” even as it reported a return to profits.
Europe’s biggest budget airline also warned that “the days of €9.99 fares are probably coming to an end” after fuel 
prices rocketed from $40 to over $100 a barrel.
Train passengers in the UK have also suffered from a combination of  strikes — the next action is scheduled for 
Wednesday — and railways unable to cope with  extreme heat.
But for those venturing abroad and who manage to reach their holiday destination intact, and with all their luggage 
in tow, the services they are normally accustomed to may well be in short supply.  
The surge in demand from holidaymakers has left much of the  European tourist industry struggling to cope, 
especially in the southern eurozone, where hotels, restaurants and tour operators have more than 40,000 unfilled 
vacancies. The downbeat mood was captured by the Portuguese Hoteliers Association as it echoed the sentiments 
of Ryanair: “The era of fast, frequent and cheap holidays is over.” 
Latest news
•
Russian Gazprom to  cut gas deliveries to Europe via Nord Stream 1
•
Ukraine hopes to resume Black Sea grain shipping this week
•
Joe Biden’s Covid symptoms ‘now almost  completely resolved’ (Washington Post)
For up-to-the-minute news updates, visit our  live blog
Need to know: the economy
Fears of a German recession increased as the Ifo Institute’s closely watched indicator of  business confidence fell 
to its lowest in more than two years. Gross domestic product figures for the second quarter are out on Friday and 
are expected to show growth of just 0.1 per cent, following 0.2 per cent in the first three months of the year. 
Latest for the UK and Europe
Jim O’Neill, former chief economist at Goldman Sachs and UK Treasury minister, wrote in the FT of the need for a 
coherent economic strategy from the two contenders to be the country’s  next prime minister, especially on 
improving productivity.
The UK’s financial regulator warned of the dangers of consumers cutting back on insurance as the cost of living 
squeeze intensified, calling for firms to provide more support so customers are not left  without a safety net. The 
author of a review into reform of capital markets warned London could lose ground to  rival cities in the EU and 
US.
Brussels’ attempts to cut gas demand across the EU continue to be watered down, with the “  mother of all opt-
outs” for southern and eastern member states. The plan is being discussed by EU ambassadors today ahead of an 
emergency meeting of  energy ministers tomorrow. European gas prices are expected to remain high  for years to 
come even after flows from Russia resumed last week.
Global latest
On Wednesday, the US Federal Reserve is set to raise its benchmark interest rate by 0.75 percentage points for 
the second consecutive month. The strategy beyond that is less certain, writes US economics editor  Colby Smith.
Confidence in the Argentine economy is vanishing as the government struggles with political infighting, increasing 
domestic debt and inflation surging towards 90 per cent. Argentines are rushing to the black market to ditch their 
rapidly  devaluing pesos for US dollars. In Brazil, the presidential election battle kicked up a gear with the launch of 
incumbent  Jair Bolsonaro’s campaign.
Planes, trains and automobiles
Lower interest rates on long-term deposits at some of China’s biggest banks are pointing to a sustained  
slowdown in growth. Beijing’s zero-Covid policy and housing market turmoil were undermining the post-lockdown 
economy, according to one economist.
Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov is touring Africa to fend off accusations that Russia is “  exporting hunger” 
by its actions in Ukraine.
Need to know: business
Billions of dollars have been lost from second-quarter sales of US companies because of the  strength of the dollar. 
The currency shock is particularly bad for groups with a substantial portion of their business outside the US. US 
corporate finance and deals editor James Fontanella-Khan says Wall Street bankers need to prepare for some  
cost-cutting as new economic realities take hold.
Swiss wealth manager Julius Baer reported a 26 per drop in first-half profits to Sfr450mn ($468mn) amid “one of 
the worst six-month periods for capital markets  in decades”. 
Shares in Philips tumbled today after the Dutch health tech company cut its  profits and sales forecasts, blaming 
supply chain problems, pandemic lockdowns, surging inflation and the war in Ukraine. 
The return of European travel, alongside increasing customer numbers and price rises helped boost growth at 
Vodafone. The telecoms company said it was on track to hit its full-year earnings target of between  €15bn and 
€15.5bn.
The London office market is undergoing the biggest “reset”  since the financial crisis, according to BNP Paribas. 
After a jump in the first quarter, buyers have retreated or are pushing for bigger discounts as the economic outlook 
darkens. 
Consumer goods groups are suffering from shoppers trading down to supermarket own-brands as the  cost of 
living crisis bites. Although commodity prices have fallen from this year’s highs, the big consumer groups such as 
Pepsi are still passing on extra costs in the form of higher prices.
The World of Work
The UK is unique in developed countries in the number of working age people neither employed nor seeking work 
rising in almost every quarter since the pandemic began. The main reason for this stalled labour recovery, writes 
John Burn-Murdoch, is  chronic illness.
Two years of pandemic have severely limited our  ability to network, writes entrepreneur Shola Asante, but the skill 
is absolutely essential for those aiming for the top. 
Women often label natural, reasonable self-doubt as “  imposter syndrome” when it’s just part of regular 
professional life, writes Viv Groskop. “We are decades into universal suffrage, education and literacy and yet so 
much data illustrates our desperation to cling on to weird medieval gender attitudes that are reflected across society 
and, most markedly, wherever there is power, status and money,” she says. 
The three stages of criticism generally consist of 1) cursing your critic 2) lamenting your situation 3) resolving to 
make things better. But it is possible to skip straight to stage three by getting better at giving — and receiving —  
constructive criticism, writes Esther Bintliff.
The pandemic-induced “great resignation”, where employees previously stuck in their offices were spurred to 
reconsider their career plans, is finally catching on in Japan with  an explosion of social enterprises — for-profit 
organisations created to benefit the community. 
Get the latest worldwide picture with our  vaccine tracker
And finally...
Planes, trains and automobiles
Fancy a weekend in a flying saucer? How about a week in a yellow submarine? Or inside a six tonne potato? 
Airbnb’s new OMG! feature showcases the weirdest places to stay on its network and is a celebration of that oft-
dismissed architectural device:  the folly.
Load-Date: July 25, 2022
End of Document
Travel chaos hits demand for European flights
Travel chaos hits demand for European flights
 
FT.com
July 20, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 442 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Demand for flying has fallen significantly among some of Europe’s largest airlines, as disruption in the aviation 
industry shows signs of hitting people’s appetite for travel. 
Bookings made in the first week of July for flights within Europe in July and August were 44 per cent below 2019 
levels, according to travel industry data company ForwardKeys.
The decline is a marked shift from the last week in May, when bookings for July and August were close to tracking 
2019 levels as airlines faced a surge in demand after the removal of all travel restrictions in Europe.
The data is drawn from an industry-wide ticketing database and includes all major national carriers such as 
Lufthansa, British Airways and Air France. But it does not have sales from low-cost carriers such as Ryanair or 
easyJet, which have reported some of the strongest demand this summer. 
The slowdown in sales has combined with tens of thousands of flight cancellations to muddy the outlook for the 
industry that is already buckling under a resurgence in passenger numbers. 
“The increased level of disruption is substantially dampening demand, as we are seeing a dramatic slowdown in 
last-minute flight bookings, plus an increase in cancellations,” said Olivier Ponti, an executive at ForwardKeys.
As of May 30, total bookings for flights within Europe in July and August made at any point this year were 17 per 
cent behind 2019 levels. But seven weeks later, that gap had widened another 5 percentage points to 22 per cent.
Travel chaos hits demand for European flights
London and Amsterdam, two capitals where airports have seen particularly serious disruption, have been the worst 
hit with 11 and 13 percentage point slowdowns. 
Airline bosses have previously said that consumer demand for flying has held up well despite weeks of negative 
headlines about travel this summer, including around 30,000 flight cancellations by British Airways alone.
EasyJet’s chief executive Johan Lundgren on Tuesday said his airline’s operations had recovered after a difficult 
start to the summer.
“The things that actually are within our control, [have] been stabilised,” he added. 
But some problems were still hitting his airline, Lundgren said, including disruptions from air traffic control and 
delays from overstretched baggage handling companies. 
On Monday, easyJet’s operations at Luton airport were interrupted after the airport was forced to shut a runway that 
was damaged by the extreme heat.
“We can’t help it if runways are closed down because they’re melting,” Lundgren said. 
On Monday the president of Emirates Sir Tim Clark said the industry would need to “tough it out” until next year as it 
rebuilt resources following the pandemic. 
Load-Date: July 20, 2022
End of Document
Boeing chief defends his record amid production delays
Boeing chief defends his record amid production delays
 
FT.com
July 18, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 917 words
Byline: Sylvia Pfeifer in London
Body
Boeing chief executive Dave Calhoun has defended his record at America’s largest aerospace company, insisting 
that he has sharpened its focus on engineering and that the indebted group could launch a new aircraft without 
having to raise money from shareholders.
Calhoun said the company had made significant progress since he took the top job two-and-a-half years ago, when 
Boeing was reeling from the grounding of its 737 Max following two crashes.  
“We all have to put two-and-a-half years in perspective, and what we’ve done as a leadership team to get ahead of 
each and every one of our big issues and no they are not complete,” Calhoun said in an interview. 
But a series of production delays and challenges have brought Boeing’s shares down 30 per cent this year 
compared with an 11 per cent decline in those of its arch rival Airbus. 
Deliveries of its wide-body 787 Dreamliner remain on hold following quality control issues while there are questions 
over the approval of its 737 Max 10 jet by the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Stabilising the production 
of the 737 Max jet is another key challenge. 
Yet speaking to the Financial Times in London on the eve of the biennial Farnborough Air Show, the 65-year-old 
Calhoun struck a bullish tone about Boeing’s prospects. 
Reflecting on his tenure since he took over in January 2020, Calhoun said “I’m actually feeling pretty good about 
the moment”. 
Boeing chief defends his record amid production delays
“The most difficult of our crises is being managed effectively. It’s not done and that’s the Max. But we’re still 
returning aeroplanes to service for our customers.”
Demand from airlines for new planes, he added, had rebounded strongly following a pandemic that plunged the 
aviation industry into its biggest crisis in decades. “We’re in full recovery mode on demand,” he said.
Calhoun was “comfortable” that regulatory approvals to allow the resumption of deliveries of the 787 would happen, 
but declined to offer a specific timeline. Regarding the 737 Max, the company was focused on ensuring it could 
reliably produce 31 planes a month. 
Delays in the delivery of the 737 Max have drawn direct criticism of Boeing’s leadership from some of its biggest 
customers, including Michael O’Leary, the chief executive of low-cost carrier Ryanair.
Calhoun said he took O’Leary’s comments “very seriously, because if we deliver a new aeroplane even a day late, 
that affects his business”. He stressed, however, that his team was focused on a consistent production rate, adding: 
“My team is wrestling with this every day. I love them and I know we will get there.”
Nevertheless, supply chain constraints continue to disrupt the industry. Stan Deal, who is head of commercial 
aeroplanes at Boeing, highlighted engine delays and shortages of semiconductors and other parts, as a key issue. 
  
Calhoun also sought to address concerns over the group’s engineering culture, saying that he had shaken up the 
group’s management structures and put people closer to the operational centres. 
One of his first acts when he took over was to ask Greg Hyslop, Boeing’s chief engineer, to leave his Chicago office 
and move to Seattle, the company’s main commercial aircraft manufacturing base. 
“My emphasis is distributed management, leadership close to the action,” said Calhoun.
Hyslop told the FT that “I don’t believe we’ve ever had a cultural issue around engineering at the Boeing Company. 
I do believe there were changes needed, [to] strengthen engineering, and provide more of a degree of 
independence for engineering”.
One of the strategic conundrums facing Boeing is how to close the gap with Airbus, which has extended its lead in 
the lucrative market for single-aisle aircraft that serve short and medium-haul destinations. The European 
aerospace group, which has an almost 60 per cent market share, recently secured a  $37bn order from Chinese 
state airlines. 
“I’m in 40 per cent [of the market],” said Calhoun. “And if the marketplace saw me delivering stably at 40 per cent 
they would be head over heels ecstatic. I think I’ll be better than 40 per cent if I can get back on an equal footing in 
China.”
Analysts have said Boeing needs to launch a new plane to take on Airbus’ best-selling A321neo, with some 
suggesting it will need to raise equity to do so given its $45bn of net debt. Calhoun played down that any launch 
was imminent, saying that advances in engine technology did not yet make it worthwhile. 
“The question about when you introduce a new commercial aeroplane . . . has to do with the technology readiness 
with respect to the propulsion packages . . . and whether they’re going to create a big enough difference for the 
marketplace to then go out and place orders and I don’t think we’re at that threshold.”
When the time is right Boeing could launch a new plane without raising new equity, according to Calhoun, as the 
company’s engineers are already building the digital infrastructure to enable the next plane, which will reduce the 
development time. 
“It’s important that those [technologies] be proven and available, the biggest one being the digital model, the digital 
twin for that development. And that is in full force,” he said.
Boeing chief defends his record amid production delays
By the time Boeing needed to spend money, Calhoun added, the “cash flow numbers will be significantly different 
and in my view, more than that”.
“I believe it will be the ability to run a digital twin on a new commercial aeroplane that will enable us to reduce 
development time, strengthen product and factory safety and improve financial outcomes,” he said. 
Load-Date: July 18, 2022
End of Document
Billion-dollar debt mountain poses invisible threat to airlines
Billion-dollar debt mountain poses invisible threat to airlines
 
FT.com
July 15, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 674 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Patrick Mathurin and Chris Campbell
Body
Airlines are struggling to get back into the skies following two years of travel restrictions, leaving passengers facing 
a frustrating barrage of delays and cancellations.
But when the disruption clears, the invisible impact of the pandemic will hang over the industry for years to come, 
as the world’s biggest carriers work to deleverage their balance sheets from billions of dollars in debt accumulated 
during the crisis.
Ten of the leading airlines in the US and Europe have built up $193bn in gross debt between them over two years, 
up from $109bn in 2019. 
“This accumulation of debt is huge. There is no quick fix to this particular problem,” said Izabela Listowska, a credit 
analyst at S&P Global Ratings.
Some airlines with weaker balance sheets have already stumbled. Earlier this month Scandinavian airline SAS filed 
for bankruptcy protection in the US to allow it to restructure its finances, following rival Norwegian, which went 
through bankruptcy and debt restructuring in 2020 and 2021.
For now, big airlines are in a much stronger position.
The major carriers in the US and Europe are insulated by a wall of cash built up from a combination of 
shareholders, debt markets and in many cases national governments. 
Billion-dollar debt mountain poses invisible threat to airlines
In the US, some have put up their frequent flyer programmes as collateral to raise money, while in Europe 
Lufthansa received a €9bn bailout from the German government, which it has already paid off. 
British Airways owner IAG raised €2.75bn from shareholders and tapped corporate debt markets, including a £2bn 
state-backed loan. 
“A lot of the cash that was raised through debt is sitting on the balance sheets,” said Jonathan Root, a senior vice-
president at rating agency Moody’s.
The industry has also switched from raising cash for survival to worrying about how to get enough planes in the air 
to meet demand, meaning cash is flowing back. Some airlines, notably low-cost carriers Spirit, Ryanair and Wizz 
Air, will fly more passengers this summer than in the same period in 2019.
This means industry-wide losses are forecast to fall to about $10bn this year, with profitability possible in 2023, said 
Marie Owens Thomsen, chief economist at the International Air Transport Association, Iata. This represents an 
“inflection point where we move to fixing balance sheets”, she said.
But just as one crisis appears nearly over with the removal of most travel restrictions, the outlook for the industry 
has darkened again.
Shares in major airlines have tumbled this year: the Bloomberg World Airlines Index is down 25 per cent since 
February. IAG is trading at around its lowest levels since autumn 2020, while easyJet has plumbed 10-year lows.
As well as the cost of travel disruption, including compensation payouts, airlines are exposed to the worsening 
economic outlook and worries over inflation that could curb consumer spending, although executives say there are 
no signs demand for flying has begun to weaken yet.
Potentially even more worrying is the rise in the price of oil, which can account for as much as a third of airline 
costs. 
So far, airlines have been able to pass these on to customers through higher ticket prices, S&P’s Listowska said, 
but European airlines that hedge their future fuel requirements will probably face higher costs when these run out in 
2023. 
“No matter what the economy throws at them . . . what is most important is [whether] these companies can maintain 
this cash they are holding,” said Moody’s Root.
Much will depend on whether the robust demand for travel this summer is simply the release of two-years of pent-
up demand, as Heathrow airport believes, or the start of a broad recovery in travel, including business class. 
At least one bright spot from inflation is the fact it will erode the overall debt hanging over the industry, and make 
the cost of servicing it more affordable.
“I think the debt levels are not necessarily sustainable, but under current circumstances they could perhaps be 
considered affordable. And that’s a saving grace for our industry,” said Iata’s Owens Thomsen.
Load-Date: July 25, 2022
End of Document
Heathrow warns of more flight cancellations as disruption continues
Heathrow warns of more flight cancellations as disruption continues
 
FT.com
July 11, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 691 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Mark Wembridge
Body
Heathrow airport warned of more flight cancellations while low-cost Wizz Air became the latest airline to cut its 
flying plans, highlighting how this summer’s travel disruption is hitting every part of the aviation industry.
The UK’s busiest airport said it would tell airlines to cancel more flights operating from its airfield if needed, after 
admitting the service “has not been acceptable” at times this summer.
“We have already seen times recently when demand exceeds the capacity of the airport, airlines and ground 
handlers,” said John Holland-Kaye, Heathrow’s chief executive. 
“We will review the schedule changes that airlines have submitted in response to the government’s requirement to 
minimise disruption for passengers this summer and will ask them to take further action if necessary,” he added.
Passengers at Heathrow were also hit by last-minute disruption after the airport told  airlines to cancel 61 out of the 
roughly 1,100 flights scheduled to operate on Monday. “We are expecting higher passenger numbers in terminals 3 
and 5 today than the airport currently has capacity to serve,” the airport said.
The fresh disruption came as Wizz Air said it would cut back its flight plans for the peak summer period by 5 per 
cent and that the measures would “avoid cancellations and secure a more punctual operation”. 
Airlines across Europe have been forced to cut back their plans for the summer as  staffing shortages across the 
industry have left them unable to operate their original schedules.
Heathrow warns of more flight cancellations as disruption continues
The schedule cuts at Wizz are smaller than those seen at many other airlines. EasyJet has cut back its plans for the 
current quarter by about 7 per cent, while British Airways has  cancelled 13 per cent of its flights originally 
scheduled to fly between March and October. 
“This . . . makes sense: Wizz is less exposed to the most congested airports where problems are greatest,” analysts 
at Bernstein said. 
But Wizz’s main rival Ryanair, which kept its staff during the pandemic, has been barely hit by the disruption.
Travel disruption, the high price of fuel and the strong dollar combined to push  Wizz into a loss at the start of the 
summer season, underlining the challenges facing many airlines even as demand for flying roars back. 
The Hungary-based carrier reported an operating loss of €285mn in the three months to the end of June and 
became one of the first airlines in Europe to quantify the financial impact of the disruption, which it said had cost 
€50mn.
The airline said it expected stronger demand for air travel to push it into the black in the current quarter despite the 
high oil price, and that fewer scheduled flights across the industry would enable it to charge more for tickets and fly 
fuller aircraft.
Wizz Air shares fell 4 per cent on Monday to take its losses for the year to more than 60 per cent. 
Underlining the wave of demand the industry is dealing with, Heathrow recorded a sixfold year-on-year increase in 
passenger numbers in June, as travellers returned to the skies following two years of Covid-19 restrictions.
Heathrow on Monday said almost 6mn people travelled through the airport in June, up from 957,000 in the same 
month in 2021 when air passengers were subject to Covid-related restrictions, but still down from the 7.25mn 
recorded in June 2019 before the pandemic hit.
Overall, it recorded 26mn travellers in the first six months of the year — an almost sevenfold increase on the 3.8mn 
who used the airport in the same period in 2021.
Separately an influential committee of politicians on Monday criticised the UK government for not doing more to 
strengthen consumer protection for fliers. 
The House of Commons’ transport select committee said ministers had not followed enough of the 
recommendations laid out in an April report, including giving the aviation regulator more power. 
“Recommendations to provide peace of mind and consumer redress for travellers have been rejected,” committee 
chairman Huw Merriman said.
The government said it has taken a range of actions to tackle aviation disruption, and said it would publish a 
passenger charter to “ensure passengers know their rights when they fly.”
Load-Date: July 11, 2022
End of Document
Letter: Make Ryanair boss come clean on flying’s future
Letter: Make Ryanair boss come clean on flying’s future
 
FT.com
July 10, 2022 Sunday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 214 words
Body
Your front page told us boldly that air travellers face years of rising fares, in a warning from Ryanair’s Michael 
O’Leary (  Report, July 2). 
But what about the rising temperatures? As O’Leary suggested it’s a matter of sorting fuel and staffing problems 
(plus the Brexit mess). O’Leary also spoke of environmental charges, under which airlines buy traceable credits to 
cover the amount they pollute under parallel emissions systems in the UK and the EU. Under pressure to achieve 
net zero by 2050, all major global polluters are worried about stranded assets but no amount of carbon credits will 
allow for business as usual, with just a bit of a price hike.
O’Leary should be the first to acknowledge you can’t run an airline without checking the weather — looking out the 
window in other words. He should come clean about the long-term future of air travel, and admit that the window to 
stop climate disaster is getting smaller and hotter by the day. 
It’s not a matter of abandoning but prioritising our investments and technology, deciding who and what really needs 
to fly, and accepting, however costly, that flying is only justified if it really is environmentally sound.
Otherwise it’s to hell in a handcart for us all. Not much of a holiday option.
Barbara Mullarney
London W3, UK
Letter: Make Ryanair boss come clean on flying’s future
Load-Date: July 10, 2022
End of Document
Airline industry: rising costs make it harder to regain altitude
Airline industry: rising costs make it harder to regain altitude
 
FT.com
July 8, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 329 words
Body
Passengers endure check-in chaos and cancellations. Yet the aviation industry insists it is on course for recovery.  
Rolls-Royce has flagged an uptick in demand for new large aircraft. Willie Walsh, boss of industry body Iata, has 
forecast a return to industry-wide profitability next year. It is, he claims, a time for optimism.
That message has not been lost on workers, including those at IAG — which Walsh ran until recently. At its British 
Airways subsidiary, unions have secured a “vastly improved”  pay deal, averting a strike by check-in staff. 
Across the industry, Iata expects a 7.9 per cent rise in the wage bill — the industry’s second biggest cost — this 
year. This is nearly twice the forecast 4.3 per cent increase in job numbers. Fuel costs are an even bigger 
headache. Assuming the price of Brent crude averages $101 per barrel this year, Iata calculates fuel will account 
for about a quarter of the industry’s costs, up from 19 per cent in 2021.
Hedging softens the blow. Ryanair, for instance, locked in an equivalent price of $65 per barrel for most of this 
year’s fuel needs. It has been a resilient performer, with low costs and a strong balance sheet. Its shares — trading 
in line with their historic average on a price/earnings multiple of 12 — are down by 5 per cent since February 24. 
That is a quarter the decline of the S&P Global 1200 airlines index. 
But in the medium term, even discounter Ryanair expects higher oil prices, together with environmental charges, to 
push up average fares up by at  least a quarter to €50. Confidence about passengers’ willingness to prioritise 
holidays if they have to tighten their belts must wither. They have done so in past recessions, but that was against a 
backdrop of declining real air travel costs. 
Airline industry: rising costs make it harder to regain altitude
As airport queues demonstrate, the lifting of Covid-19 restrictions has unleashed pent-up demand. But that could 
soon peter out in harsh economic conditions. So could hopes of a rapid return to profitability.
Load-Date: July 8, 2022
End of Document
EasyJet under fire as flight chaos exposes carrier’s operating model
EasyJet under fire as flight chaos exposes carrier’s operating model
 
FT.com
July 8, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1035 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Transport Correspondent
Body
As the first signs of travel disruption emerged in the spring, easyJet’s chief executive was relishing a new challenge 
after two miserable years of border restrictions because of a pandemic that had plunged the industry into crisis.
“It is a good challenge to have, it is customers coming back. We are putting pressure on the system, the airports, 
the ground handlers, the air traffic controllers, because customers are coming back . . . that is good,” Johan 
Lundgren said in late March.
Three months later and he may rue that comment. Returning passengers have overwhelmed the European aviation 
system, with easyJet one of the worst-hit airlines in a barrage of disruption caused by staff shortages across every 
part of the industry.
This week the chaos took its first major casualty, with the company’s  chief operating officer Peter Bellew resigning 
after a difficult run. The airline has cancelled 1,760 flights departing from the UK this year — five times the number 
over the same period in 2019, according to data provider Cirium.
“It has been an operational disaster at easyJet,” said Chris Tarry, of Ctaira, an aviation consultancy.
The disruption will cost the airline about €200mn, according to Bernstein analysts, pushing it into a loss this 
financial year, which ends in September. 
Its share price has also suffered, plummeting 40 per cent to 11-year lows since the start of January as it outpaced 
the declines of rival carriers.
EasyJet under fire as flight chaos exposes carrier’s operating model
Although not the only airline facing difficulties — British Airways, Lufthansa and KLM have cancelled tens of 
thousands of flights between them this summer — easyJet’s operating model is at the heart of its problems, leaving 
it helplessly exposed to the industry-wide disruption.
Like rivals Ryanair and Wizz Air, it has a low-cost business built on fine margins that rely on swiftly turning round 
flights, which are vulnerable to any delays or disruption at the airport.
But unlike its two rivals, easyJet has based its operations around a handful of capacity-constrained airports, notably 
London Gatwick, that have been badly hit by staff shortages and also have little slack in their busy schedules to 
cope with disruption. 
“From the design of the business, it is in the worst place on both fronts . . . they are in the wrong place for the 
present environment,” said Andrew Lobbenberg, an aviation analyst at HSBC.
It was one of the airlines to suffer the most in a chaotic late May and early June, which came to a head during the 
UK school half-term break with passengers facing cancellations, huge queues and hours-long delays at airports.
The disruption prompted a rethink as easyJet management realised they needed to factor in greater buffers into 
their schedules, particularly more standby crew to take over when delays pushed staff beyond their permitted 
working hours. 
With airports overwhelmed, executives concluded they had overestimated how many people they could fly this 
summer, and later in June  announced plans to cut back schedules to try to stop last-minute cancellations.
EasyJet was also cautious in restarting flying — its planes were grounded for 11 weeks in 2020 — leaving it with a 
huge challenge as the industry suddenly switched from hibernation to full throttle in a matter of weeks this year.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary said his airline had experienced much less disruption from its London hub, 
the smaller Stansted airport, because his team worked “hand in glove” with the airport to gear up for the restart.
“At Heathrow and Gatwick, it is much more difficult because easyJet and British Airways were not sure what they 
were going to do,” he said. 
With plans to fly slightly fewer flights than 2019 but with roughly the same number of staff, easyJet management 
blames its problems on high sickness rates among its own workers as well as labour shortages across nearly every 
part of the industry, from ground-handlers to air traffic controllers. 
Lundgren also blames the government for immigration rules that have made it harder to hire EU workers, on top of 
delays in getting new staff security clearances.
But, despite the wider industry problems, some argue easyJet should have been more alert to the potential 
disruption.
Tarry said the airline was ultimately responsible for planning its summer schedule, and chose to run more flights 
than it could handle.
“They decided to offer, then sell, far too many seats,” he said.
Bellew’s departure has also unnerved investors — shares fell 5 per cent after he quit — as the former Ryanair 
executive had been well-regarded by investors for his role in cutting costs during the pandemic. 
It has also focused attention on Lundgren’s position. It is “not professional” to lose an operations boss during the 
middle of your busiest period, one industry figure said. 
EasyJet under fire as flight chaos exposes carrier’s operating model
However, people close to the airline’s board say Lundgren has the backing of chair Stephen Hester, the City 
veteran with a history of overseeing struggling companies, who took the job last autumn. The board is also not 
seeing significant unease among investors, according to the people. 
Yet, other industry figures outside the company are less sure. “Johan needs a win soon,” one person said. 
Heaping more pressure on both Lundgren and the board is a souring in industrial relations.
A set of strikes looms in Spain this month, while British pilots’ union Balpa has accused the airline of “corporate 
bullying” over treatment of staff and the high absences during the pandemic, which the company fiercely denies. A 
French pilots’ union has also fired a broadside at the airline’s management for its poor summer planning. 
Much will rest on how easyJet handles the rest of this summer. For now, there are signs the cuts to schedules have 
worked, with far fewer last-minute cancellations. 
Investors will hope that means the airline has got to grips with its problems as it aims to keep costs low and move 
past the worst of the pandemic to restore profits, with HSBC’s Lobbenberg summing up the key task. 
“The fastest way to reduce costs is to stabilise your operations,” he said. 
Letter in response to this article:
 Easyjet model shows it’s in it for the long haul /  From Johan Lundgren, Chief Executive of Easyjet, Luton, 
Bedfordshire, UK
Load-Date: July 19, 2022
End of Document
The Lex Newsletter: Europe’s aviation forecast looks gloomy
The Lex Newsletter: Europe’s aviation forecast looks gloomy
 
FT.com
July 6, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 581 words
Byline: Andrew Whiffin
Body
Dear reader,
I have just undertaken my first trip overseas since the start of the pandemic, flying from London to sunny Spain. It is 
a good vantage point from which to assess the state of the European travel industry. 
While my journey was unaffected by cancelled flights, lost bags or lengthy queues, not every traveller has been so 
lucky. Customers and shareholders in Scandinavian Airlines (SAS) were at the front of the queue on Tuesday as 
the airline  filed for bankruptcy protection. The restructuring would not have an impact on service levels, the 
company said. But a pilots’ strike, which was blamed for the urgent need to restructure, could affect up to 30,000 
customers.
Shares in SAS fell as much as 14 per cent in response. That leaves the company’s equity valued at just under 
$400mn, down from almost $2bn a year ago.
A sector that was previously hailed as one of the best ways to trade the pandemic recovery is going rapidly 
downhill. 
Customer demand is still high: pandemic-era travel restrictions have eased and travellers are booking holidays. In 
most countries (excluding China) passenger numbers have either returned to or surpassed 2019 levels. Bookings 
data suggest the trend will continue into the third quarter of the year.
The Lex Newsletter: Europe’s aviation forecast looks gloomy
But for SAS pilots, British Airways’ ground crew and Ryanair’s cabin staff, the problem is pay. Airline staff who 
accepted cuts during the pandemic to help preserve jobs want to claw back those losses and be compensated for 
rising living costs.
Along with higher wage bills, airlines are contending with more expensive fuel costs as the price of oil climbs. With 
interest rates rising, heavily indebted airlines must also consider the prospect of higher debt servicing charges.
As part of its restructuring, SAS hopes to cut $716mn in costs. It will also raise about $900mn in new equity with 
further plans to swap or pay down almost $2bn of liabilities — about one-third of the total. An existing $741mn of 
cash on hand will help to smooth the process. The current consensus is that SAS will yield a small operating profit 
by 2024.
Unlike AirFrance-KLM, which is undergoing its own $2.3bn state-backed rights issue, the Swedish and Danish 
governments have already ruled out contributing to an SAS rescue plan. 
Elsewhere, debt and equity fundraisings over the past two years have kept airline bankruptcies to a minimum. 
Airlines have largely been able to hold on to the cash that has been raised.
The latest cash balances at IAG, easyJet and Ryanair stood at €8bn, £3.5bn and €3.6bn respectively. If growing 
fears of a recession in Europe prove true, these will be needed — particularly in the stagflation scenario that many 
are expecting.
Airlines are only just expected to return to operating profit this year. Stress testing shows that interest cover for IAG 
and easyJet falls below expected operating earnings if interest costs double and ebit is one quarter less than 
current expectations. 
A less indebted airline such as Ryanair would hold up better, with interest covered five times even in a 
stagflationary scenario. Along with better fuel hedges and growing market share, there is reason to think Europe’s 
best-performing airline will be able to hang on to its title.
Fuel costs are already high and interest payments are likely to rise. Staffing overheads remain the only real lever for 
cost-conscious airlines. That does not bode well for shareholders or air passengers. Wish me luck for my return 
journey to London.
Andrew Whiffin
Lex writer
Load-Date: July 6, 2022
End of Document
EasyJet executive quits over flight chaos
EasyJet executive quits over flight chaos
 
FT.com
July 4, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 498 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
The executive responsible for running easyJet’s operations has resigned following a gruelling period of disruption 
including thousands of flight cancellations.
The carrier said on Monday that Peter Bellew had resigned as chief operating officer, but would stay with the 
company temporarily to “ensure a smooth transition”.
His departure comes after  easyJet became one of the biggest casualties from the wave of disruption that has hit 
Europe’s airlines this year.
The carrier has been forced to cancel thousands of flights in response to staff shortages that have disrupted the 
industry this summer, with some of the most damaging occurring during the UK school half-term in June.
The airline was forced to cut back its summer schedule later that month as it attempted to restore order to its flight 
operations. 
The airline  cut about 10,000 of the 160,000 flights scheduled to run in July, August and September, with more than 
70 per cent of its customers moved to other flights within 24 hours of their original departure, the last being notified 
of changes on Monday.
It leaves more than a quarter of prospective passengers on the affected flights facing a refund, rebooking on to 
another flight on a different day or having to accept a voucher for use in the future. 
EasyJet executive quits over flight chaos
EasyJet’s management has long insisted it does not have a staffing problem, and argues it has fallen victim to 
problems at  airports, with shortages among air traffic controllers and ground handlers. 
The carrier has recruited more than 1,700 staff this year, meaning it has a similar number of employees as in 2019, 
despite planning to fly less.
But as passenger frustration has grown, chief executive Johan Lundgren has been under increasing pressure to get 
a grip on the situation. 
British Airways, which has also suffered from heavy disruption this year,  overhauled its senior management in May, 
including splitting the role of chief operating officer. 
Bellew is a well-known figure in aviation. He joined easyJet from Ryanair in 2019, prompting an unsuccessful court 
challenge from the Irish airline to prevent him from working for a rival.
In April, the British pilots’ union Balpa  told the Financial Times that Bellew was behind a breakdown in relations 
between pilots and easyJet’s management, particularly in its handling of staff absences.
David Morgan, director of flight operations, will take over as interim chief operating officer.
A well-respected figure inside the organisation, Morgan was previously interim chief operating officer in 2019.
With his background as a pilot, he is considered a more conciliatory figure than Bellew, according to one easyJet 
executive. 
“I would like to thank Peter for his hard work and wish him well. Everyone at easyJet remains absolutely focused on 
delivering a safe and reliable operation this summer,” said Lundgren.
“David has significant experience and deep knowledge of the business and operation and will provide strong 
leadership for the airline this summer,” he added. 
Load-Date: July 4, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair chief warns fares will rise for 5 years because flying is ‘too cheap’
Ryanair chief warns fares will rise for 5 years because flying is ‘too cheap’
 
FT.com
July 1, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 781 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary, the pioneer of low-cost travel in Europe, has warned fares will rise for the next five 
years because flying has become “too cheap” to make profits as industry costs spiral.
His warning comes as ticket prices have risen in Europe and the US this summer as passengers return and some  
airlines cut capacity because of staff shortages. 
“It’s got too cheap for what it is. I find it absurd every time that I fly to Stansted, the train journey into central London 
is more expensive than the air fare,” he said in an interview with the Financial Times.
He said he expected a combination of high oil prices and environmental charges to push the average Ryanair fare 
up from €40 to between €50 to €60 over the medium term. 
O’Leary also fired a broadside at the British government and what he called “the disaster” of Brexit that had stopped 
airlines easily recruiting European workers, which the industry says has worsened staff shortages this summer.
“This is without doubt one of the inevitable consequences of the disaster that has been Brexit,” he said.
“Withdrawing from the single market, just so that they can say ‘We got Brexit done’ was the height of idiocy. But 
then they are idiots.” 
O’Leary turned  Ryanair from a small regional carrier in the 1990s into the biggest airline in Europe by ruthlessly 
cutting costs, and passing these gains on to consumers through cheap ticket prices.
Ryanair chief warns fares will rise for 5 years because flying is ‘too cheap’
“It has been my doing [making air travel cheap]. I made a lot of money doing it. But ultimately, I don’t believe air 
travel is sustainable over the medium term at an average fare of €40. It’s too cheap at that. But I think, you know, it 
will still be very cheap and affordable at €50 and €60.”
Median fares from London to summer destinations in Portugal, Spain and Greece have all jumped compared with a 
year ago, although they are significantly lower than 10 years ago, according to data from  Kayak.com. Prices from 
London to Athens, for example, have halved in the past decade.
Ryanair rivals easyJet and Wizz Air have also both reported higher fares in recent investor updates. But O’Leary is 
one of the first airline bosses to warn about an increase in fares in the longer term. 
The Irish airline had hedged the majority of its future fuel requirements for the rest of this year at $65 per barrel 
before Russia invaded Ukraine, saving it from the worst impact of the sharp rise in prices. 
But the Ryanair boss still thinks fares will rise as he expects oil prices will remain “structurally higher” for the next 
four or five years, “until we can wean ourselves off Russian oil and gas”. 
He added he expects wider inflationary pressures to hit the airline industry next year, including staff costs and air 
traffic control charges.
O’Leary also highlighted rising environmental charges, under which airlines buy tradeable credits to cover the 
amount they pollute under parallel emissions systems in both the UK and the EU.
He said the EU emissions trading system, which covers only intra-European flights, should be extended to long-
haul journeys, a measure recently rejected by EU environment ministers.
“It is manifestly unfair and inequitable and is distortive . . . there has to be a fair system.” 
Stephen Furlong, an analyst at Davy, said the price of oil would be the “one big factor” in future fares.
“Ultimately airlines try and pass it on. Whether they are successful or not will determine the margin, profitability and 
performance of the industry,” he added. 
Ryanair has been virtually the only major carrier in Europe to dodge disruptions from staff shortages.
Unlike many rivals, it did not sack swaths of its employees when Covid-19 struck, instead cutting their pay while 
keeping them employed.
O’Leary said the decision to keep pilots and crew flying regularly, so they could keep their licences and be “ready to 
rock and roll” once passengers came back, had been “critical”. 
But he refused to criticise other airlines for their decisions during the pandemic, even as British Airways, easyJet 
and Lufthansa have cut flights following disruption.
“I have a lot of sympathy and I would not be critical of competitor airlines. Covid has been unbelievably difficult to 
manage your way through.” 
EasyJet last month  disclosed it had rejected 8,000 job applicants because of their nationality this year, most of 
whom were from the EU.
The UK Department for Transport said there had been disruption around the world because of staff shortages. 
“It is not obvious that reaching for the lever marked ‘more immigration’ will solve the problem,” it said. 
Letter in response to this article:
 Make Ryanair boss come clean on flying’s future /  From Barbara Mullarney, London W3, UK
Ryanair chief warns fares will rise for 5 years because flying is ‘too cheap’
Load-Date: July 11, 2022
End of Document
Fintechs face reckoning as easy money dries up
Fintechs face reckoning as easy money dries up
 
FT.com
June 24, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1146 words
Byline: Imani Moise in New York and Siddharth Venkataramakrishnan and Joshua Oliver in London
Body
As a wave of fintechs rode successive funding rounds to ever-higher valuations over the past five years, Swedish 
buy now, pay later company Klarna declared its ambition to become the Ryanair, Tesla and Amazon of the sector.
But now as central banks raise rates in a fight against surging  inflation, Klarna is trying to raise fresh cash at less 
than half its peak $46bn valuation and fintechs are having to come to terms with a world where expansion can no 
longer be fuelled by cheap money and business models must be demonstrated by profits.
A record amount of investment poured into  fintech companies in 2021, but many now struggle to raise fresh funds 
and are discussing selling themselves or accepting lower valuations to stay afloat, according to investors, analysts 
and executives in the industry. 
On Thursday, payments services provider  SumUp raised cash at a valuation of €8bn — significantly below the 
€20bn valuation mooted earlier this year.
And as belts tighten, a fintech’s chances of survival may be measured by the amount of cash sitting on its balance 
sheet. “You are in panic mode if your runway is less than a year,” said Erik Podzuweit, founder and co-chief 
executive officer of German investment app Scalable Capital.
Venture capital firms more than doubled their investments in the sector last year to $134bn, helping fintech 
valuations outperform any other tech subsector, according to Crunchbase data. Funding peaked in the second 
quarter of 2021 as investors such as Accel, Sequoia Capital, SoftBank and Berkshire Hathaway backed groups 
Fintechs face reckoning as easy money dries up
including Brazilian digital lender Nubank, German broker Trade Republic and Amsterdam-based payments 
company Mollie. Financial services companies accounted for roughly $1 out of every $5 in venture capital 
investment last year.
But now public fintech valuations have collapsed even faster than they climbed as funding slowed sharply in the first 
quarter. Fintech valuations have had a steeper decline than any other technology sector, according to a 
recentreport by Andreessen Horowitz partners, which cited data from Capital IQ. Valuations fell from 25 times 
forward revenue in October of 2021 to four times in May.
Fintech fundraising in the most recent quarter dropped 21 per cent to $28.8bn from the record high of $36.6bn 
reached in the second quarter of last year, according to CB Insights.
“It was easy for funds that raised a ton of money to say, ‘oh, we’re just going to double the valuation’ . . . it doesn’t 
necessarily follow company performance,” said Jonathan Keidan, managing partner of Torch Capital, which has 
invested in fintechs such as Acorns and Compass. “The effects will be public by the fall.”
Many fintech companies raised capital at lofty valuations based on ambitious growth targets, said Arjun Kapur, 
managing partner at Forecast Labs. “With all the market changes, most of them are not going to hit the goals they 
signed up for, which means the business is not worth what it raised.” 
Though he expects the sector will bounce back over the long term, “many businesses will get squeezed out in the 
process”.
Investors have grown particularly sceptical of consumer-facing digital challenger banks as high inflation lowers how 
much people can save and increases the likelihood of defaults. Funding to banking fintechs plunged 48 per cent to 
$4.4bn in the first quarter compared with the same period last year, according to CB Insights.
Robert Le, fintech analyst at PitchBook, said that a bifurcation in funding was likely, as consumer-facing fintechs 
struggle while those selling software to other businesses will prove more stable. Among those is UK cloud banking 
fintech Thought Machine, which doubled its valuation to $2.7bn in its  latest funding round in May.
Meanwhile, executives such as Yorick Naeff, chief executive of Dutch broker Bux, are considering postponing 
planned fundraising rounds. “These companies, including us, should focus more on the path to profitability,” he told 
the Financial Times. “If you are organised in a way that is just focused on growth . . . you are going to run into 
trouble.”
Many consumer fintech companies in the US had started to dial back their marketing budgets in an attempt to 
conserve cash, said David Sosna, chief executive of Personetics, which provides marketing insights for the banking 
industry. “We definitely see some [clients] saying, ‘OK, maybe we need to stop or slow down.’” 
Bankers are advising companies to conserve as much cash as possible to ride out what will probably be a difficult 
two years for fundraising. 
“When you factor in the time it takes to raise a round, you probably need 30 to 36 months runway so you’re not 
forced back to the market,” said a senior banker at a US commercial bank. Only extremely strong companies would 
be able to raise even at the same level as last year, the person added.
Freetrade, the UK broker valued at £650mn in November,  raised £30mn through a loan last month. Chief executive 
Adam Dodds said at the time that the move aimed to shore up the company’s balance sheet without having to 
revalue it: “It’s choppy markets. To zero in on a valuation at this point is maybe not that helpful.”
In addition to a lower valuation, which can be an embarrassing signal to markets and hurt morale internally, down 
rounds may carry stricter terms such as strengthened liquidation protocols and anti-dilution protection, said S&P 
Global Market Intelligence analyst Tom Mason.
Fintechs face reckoning as easy money dries up
Selling out entirely was becoming an increasingly attractive option for many companies, said Keidan at Torch 
Capital. Apple’s privacy changes have significantly increased customer acquisition costs, making existing customer 
bases more valuable at the same time fintech valuations are coming down. Boards began exploring potential sales 
in the spring, he said.
Fintech acquisitions — already on track to pass 2021’s record — will probably accelerate through the rest of the 
year as traditional financial companies such as JPMorgan Chase and Mastercard take advantage of relatively 
cheap software groups.
“I’m seeing it brewing very fast right now,” said Michael Abbott, global banking lead at Accenture, adding that tie-
ups between fintech challengers and incumbents are on the rise. 
Deals so far this year include UBS’s acquisition of Wealthfront and Fiserv’s purchase of Finxact.
“What consumers want is the best of what the neobanks have to offer in terms of experience and an ability to get 
products quickly, but at the same time what they’re going to need in a rising rate environment is the balance sheet 
of a bank,” said Abbott.
One investor at a large private equity firm said they had received a steady drumbeat of pitches from fintechs looking 
to sell themselves in recent weeks but had passed on all of them.
“Who’s to say this price is really the right price? What if six months from now that price is actually considered too 
expensive?”
Load-Date: June 24, 2022
End of Document
We are stuck with easyJet ’s shambles
We are stuck with easyJet’s shambles
 
FT.com
June 20, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 771 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Like thousands of other travellers, I am due to fly with easyJet out of Gatwick next month. For probably the first time 
in my life, I wish I was flying Ryanair from almost anywhere else. 
EasyJet has  taken over from British Airways as the poster airline for last minute cancellations and delays, while 
Gatwick has replaced Manchester as the equivalent for airports. On Monday easyJet said it would “proactively 
consolidate” flights to “build additional resilience”, after both London Gatwick and Amsterdam’s Schiphol said they 
would limit the number of passengers permitted to fly in July and August. 
EasyJet depicts the problems as an industry issue — even an economy-wide one of supply chain disruptions 
caused by labour shortages — rather than admit it has handled things especially badly. 
Clearly it is far from the only one affected, and airports and ground-handling groups deserve their share of the 
blame. Yet last week it cancelled 146 UK departures, according to data from airline analytics provider Cirium, more 
than any other airline. That will be partly because it’s the UK’s biggest, running flights from some of its busiest 
airports, but then Ryanair didn’t make the top 10. And if it was so impossible to predict that cuts to schedules might 
be needed to smooth things out, why then did British Airways  cancel flights through to September from as early as 
April to increase reliability?
EasyJet’s response is that it has run a service up to 2019’s standards for all except two weeks: the first week in 
April and May’s half term. Still, it is surely not good enough to run a service that is up to scratch except when people 
We are stuck with easyJet ’s shambles
most want to use it. And it should be foreseeable that another extended crunch might be coming with the onset of 
the summer holiday season. 
You might think that flirting with a reputation for chaos and cancellations would hurt an airline reliant on 
discretionary travel. The schedule cuts will have some financial impact. EasyJet cautioned capacity would be lower 
than expected and costs higher; projections by analysts at Peel Hunt and Goodbody of a profit for this year flipped 
to a loss. 
But all that seems to be outweighed by consumers’ desperation to get away. Chief executive Johan Lundgren says 
disruption has had no impact on demand, with bookings for July to September in line with 2019.  Barclaycard data 
showed earlier this month that consumers increased their spending with airlines and travel agents in May despite 
April’s issues, even as they cut back almost everywhere else. 
And despite months of bad headlines almost all analysts have a buy rating out on the stock, S&P Global data show. 
Most airlines have received some share price punishment for cancellations, reckons Peel Hunt’s Alexander 
Paterson — even those that haven’t cut any flights. Analysts are worried about the effects of rising fuel prices and a 
consumer downturn, not the potential for a reputational hit to dent demand. Since this year’s earnings will be 
blighted by Covid-19, airlines are priced on next year’s instead. EasyJet appears more appealing than most. 
Low cost carriers tend to hold up better than flag carriers during recessions, since consumers trade down rather 
than stay home, Morgan Stanley analysts noted last month. Airlines’ performance during periods of high oil prices 
caused by external shocks is less encouraging, with margins likely to suffer if weakening consumer demand leaves 
airlines constrained on pricing. But even then, Morgan Stanley reckoned easyJet and Ryanair looked the best of the 
bunch, with most upside in a steady recovery and least downside in a downturn. 
EasyJet also has, in the words of HSBC analyst Andrew Lobbenberg, “decent fuel and US dollar hedging”, unlike 
budget  rival Wizz which was late to hedge as the oil price climbed. EasyJet’s focus on western Europe has also 
helped it dodge wavering demand for destinations in central and eastern Europe in the wake of Russia’s invasion of 
Ukraine. 
Other airlines similarly constrained by staff shortages have helpfully cut capacity on easyJet’s routes, note 
Berenberg, giving it greater pricing power. While there is doubt about next year’s fares, this year seems solid with 
July to September prices up 14 per cent. At last month’s share price of 530p, Berenberg analysts had it trading on 
12 times 2023 earnings, more or less in line with its 2015-19 median. 
EasyJet is the beneficiary of an acronym familiar to plenty of equity market investors of recent years: Tina, or There 
Is No (good) Alternative. Passengers lack many better options. So too do airline investors. 
cat.rutterpooley@ft.com@catrutterpooley
Load-Date: June 20, 2022
End of Document
EasyJet cuts back summer schedule in effort to avoid further disruption
EasyJet cuts back summer schedule in effort to avoid further disruption
 
FT.com
June 20, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 576 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
EasyJet has been forced to cut thousands more flights this summer in response to the staff shortages affecting the 
aviation industry, as it warned the disruption had been worsened by Brexit and would hit its finances.
The low-cost airline on Monday said it would “proactively” cancel flights at sites where there had been significant 
disruption, including London Gatwick and Amsterdam, two of its biggest airports.
Both airports have introduced flight caps in recent days to try to get a grip on disruption, and give passengers 
advance warning of problems following weeks of last-minute cancellations.
EasyJet’s chief executive Johan Lundgren said the airline had been forced to reject 8,000 job applicants because of 
their nationality, most of whom were from the EU, following changes to immigration rules from  Brexit. He said that 
meant 35 to 40 per cent of potential recruits were being rejected because of their nationality, up from 2.5 per cent 
before Brexit. 
He called again for ministers to give European aviation staff work permits  to help ease the crunch. 
“There is a much smaller pool of talent available,” he said. 
The airline did not put a number on how many flights would be lost, but said it would now fly about 87 per cent of 
2019 levels in the three months to the end of June, down from the 90 per cent it forecast in May. 
EasyJet cuts back summer schedule in effort to avoid further disruption
In the following quarter, this would rise to 90 per cent, down from a previous expectation of 97 per cent, which was 
equivalent to 160,000 flights. 
“There will be a cost impact from disruption, coupled with the enhanced resilience  easyJet is putting in place this 
summer,” the airline said, pointing to crew costs, airport charges and leasing of new aircraft to cope with demand.
Despite the pressures, the airline has recruited 1,700 staff this year, and now has a similar number of employees as 
in 2019, despite planning to fly less. 
That would help easyJet replace crew where delays have meant the original staff have run out of their tightly 
controlled working hours, Lundgren said, but he added that in some situations such as air traffic delays “it does not 
help, however many crew you have”.
He added that the airline was still working out which flights to cut as it surveyed the “ongoing challenges” across the 
sector. 
Shares in easyJet were down 1.5 per cent in early afternoon trading on Monday, while rivals including Ryanair and 
British Airways owner IAG rose. 
EasyJet’s actions underline how the peak summer season has gone wrong for many carriers and airports as 
passenger numbers pick up following the worst of the pandemic, because of staff shortages across the 
interdependent web of companies in the aviation industry. 
Nonetheless, the International Air Transport Association, an industry body, on Monday said a return to industry-
wide profitability in 2023 was “in reach” following the rapid return of passengers.
“Airlines are resilient. People are flying in ever greater numbers . . . profitability is on the horizon for 2023. It is a 
time for optimism,” said Iata director general Willie Walsh. 
EasyJet’s pre-emptive flight cuts mirror those of British Airways, which cancelled 10 per cent of its summer flight 
schedules in early May, and has since suffered less disruption.
Heathrow airport said on Monday that it would cancel about 30 flights following baggage reclaim problems in two 
terminals, while Brussels airport was closed completely for outgoing flights because of strikes and staff shortages. 
Load-Date: June 20, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair scraps Afrikaans test imposed on S African travellers to UK
Ryanair scraps Afrikaans test imposed on S African travellers to UK
 
FT.com
June 15, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 424 words
Byline: Joseph Cotterill
Body
Ryanair has scrapped an Afrikaans language test it imposed on South African travellers to the UK after it prompted 
ridicule and accusations of racial discrimination by Europe’s biggest low-cost carrier.
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, said the airline was ending the test, which  required South African 
nationals to answer general knowledge questions in the nation’s third most spoken language before they could 
board its planes, “because it doesn’t make any sense”.
South African travellers, many of whom do not speak Afrikaans, said they were baffled and humiliated by the test, 
which Ryanair had said was justified because of a rise in fake South African passports. South African nationals 
were refused entry to flights unless they answered the questions.
Ryanair’s policy stirred painful memories in South Africa, where Afrikaans was imposed on black South Africans 
under apartheid and the democratic constitution today safeguards 11 official languages as a result.
The Pan South African Language Board said Ryanair’s actions were “reminiscent of the old colonial and apartheid 
systematic subjugation of speakers of other languages, mainly black people, to racial and linguistic discrimination”.
On Thursday South Africa will mark the anniversary of the 1976 Soweto uprising, when apartheid police brutally 
suppressed student protests against Afrikaans instruction in the Johannesburg township’s schools.
O’Leary claimed travellers had “no difficulty completing” Afrikaans questions such as the name of South Africa’s 
president and its highest mountain. “But we didn’t think it was appropriate either,” he said.
Ryanair scraps Afrikaans test imposed on S African travellers to UK
South Africa’s home affairs ministry has recently highlighted cases of passport fraud that were allegedly abetted by 
its officials. It has said that it provides airlines with access to a screening system to quickly spot fake documents.
South Africa’s main opposition Democratic Alliance said it was “ridiculous to assess a South African’s citizenship by 
his or her ability to speak Afrikaans” but added that South Africa lacked controls on passport integrity.
O’Leary said Ryanair incurred fines for allowing travellers with false identities on its planes. “South Africa needs to 
fix its problems,” he said.
But South African travellers who took the test told the Financial Times the airline did not check other documents 
that would have verified their identity, such as visas and UK residency.
Travellers also said they were told the test was an official requirement despite neither the UK nor Ireland mandating 
language checks.
Load-Date: June 15, 2022
End of Document
UK orders airlines to make sure all summer flights go ahead as advertised
UK orders airlines to make sure all summer flights go ahead as advertised
 
FT.com
June 14, 2022 Tuesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 567 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
The UK government and aviation regulator have ordered airlines to ensure all their advertised flights go ahead this 
summer, as industry bosses apologised for the  disruption that marred the half-term getaway.
The Department for Transport and Civil Aviation Authority on Tuesday wrote a joint letter to the aviation industry 
which said “more needs to be done” to guarantee the summer holiday season would not be affected by further 
interruptions following “unacceptable scenes” over recent weeks. 
Airlines were told to cancel flights early rather than scrap them at the last minute, and to “review afresh” their 
plans for the summer to “develop a schedule that is deliverable”.
The intervention came after senior aviation industry officials conceded the recent wave of disruption was 
unacceptable, but warned that the industry was still  suffering from staff shortages and there were no guarantees 
the problems would be solved by the summer holidays. 
Between 2 and 4 per cent of UK flights were cancelled during the first week of May, compared with a normal rate of 
1 per cent, the CAA said. 
Sophie Dekkers, easyJet’s chief commercial officer, issued an apology to customers caught up in the problems. 
“We haven’t got it right and we need to get it right,” she said at a parliamentary select committee hearing on 
Tuesday.
UK orders airlines to make sure all summer flights go ahead as advertised
“We definitely want to be better, no one wants to let customers down,” Lisa Tremble, a senior executive at  British 
Airways, told the hearing.
Tremble and other airline executives said many factors had contributed to the problems, including staff shortages 
and the uncertainty that was gripping the travel industry until as recently as March when the UK government 
loosened its remaining coronavirus travel rules.
“The lack of certainty about where the industry was going to go and when has been a huge barrier to our 
recruitment,” said Karen Dee, chief executive of the Airport Operators Association. 
Airlines, airports and ground handlers were currently waiting for many new hires to pass through the stringent 
background security checks needed before they can work in the aviation industry, including around 3,000 at BA, 
MPs were told. 
Oliver Richardson, aviation lead at union Unite, said the number of flight cancellations “almost exactly corresponds” 
to staff cuts. He drew a comparison between BA, which shed 10,000 staff and has had to cut 10 per cent of its 
schedule this summer, and Ryanair, which did not lose staff and has suffered far fewer cancellations. 
“Both industry and government need to shoulder responsibility for the chaos we have seen,” said Sue Davies, head 
of consumer rights at consumer group Which?
As the government inquest into the disruption intensifies, online travel agent On The Beach, which has a history of 
dispute with airlines, wrote to transport secretary Grant Shapps to demand a market review into the industry.
Low-cost airlines hold virtual monopolies on many routes, allowing them to “do as they please without 
consequences”, On The Beach founder Simon Cooper wrote in the letter.
“Much of the damage being caused to the sector, including the recent avoidable disruption, is a result of the use 
and misuse by some airlines of their market power,” Cooper wrote. 
The threat of further disruption on the railways also intensified on Tuesday, as the TSSA union announced plans to 
ballot 6,000 staff over strike action at infrastructure owner Network Rail.
Load-Date: June 15, 2022
End of Document
Letter: Ireland makes mockery of Ryanair ’s language test
Letter: Ireland makes mockery of Ryanair’s language test
 
FT.com
June 13, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 114 words
Body
I recently provided Irish passports for two grandchildren, as much to celebrate their deceased father’s heritage as 
for them to continue enjoying the freedoms and rights recently removed from us mere Englanders by Boris 
Johnson’s Brexit.
But I don’t expect the youngsters to be subjected to a language test or questionnaire in Erse or Gaeilge to enter 
Ryanair’s home country any time soon — if only because so few of Ireland’s own citizens can string more than a 
few words together in what your correspondent Mike Pugh calls Irish Gaelic (“Britons with Irish passports would 
face awkward test”,  Letters, June 8).
Long live the British-Irish common travel area!
Adrian P Hewitt London N5, UK
Load-Date: June 12, 2022
End of Document
Airlines have made promises they are unable to deliver
Airlines have made promises they are unable to deliver
 
FT.com
June 9, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 637 words
Byline: The editorial board
Body
We regret to inform passengers of flight delays. For the next 18 months. That is the forecast, from the boss of 
London’s Heathrow airport, John Holland-Kaye, of  how long it will take to recalibrate supply and demand for air 
travel. The unacceptable and avoidable chaos at British airports last week, which resulted in thousands being 
forced to abandon holiday plans, therefore has a real chance of repeating itself this summer. Both industry and the 
government share responsibility to ensure that it does not.
The prospect of many people’s first foreign holiday since the start of the pandemic has meant demand for air travel 
has taken off far quicker than the industry’s ability to meet it reliably, at a time when airlines are already facing 
soaring fuel costs and are under pressure to transition to cleaner flights. At the height of the pandemic, airlines, 
airports and ancillary-service providers all had to reduce costs drastically, which meant swingeing job cuts and 
sometimes regrettably cynical sharp practice. Over 25,000 people lost their jobs in UK air travel, despite a 
government furlough scheme intended to help smooth out firing and rehiring. British Airways alone  cut 10,000 jobs 
and threatened to force staff who remained on to cheaper contracts. 
Those cuts are now proven to be too deep. Now that passengers want to travel again, workers — and their unions 
— have the upper hand in a tight labour market. Hiring staff takes longer than in other sectors because of training 
and rigorous security checks. Shortages are particularly acute among ground crew. A baggage handler’s annual 
starting salary is £15,000 for a 45-hour week: pay that could easily be matched by jobs at supermarkets or delivery 
companies with more sociable hours and no lengthy background checks. Better pay may help; a cost that will 
inevitably be passed on to passengers. But if that results in a more reliable service, it may be a price worth paying. 
Airlines have made promises they are unable to deliver
The problem is not uniquely British. Travellers suffered in Amsterdam and Dublin airports. A strike by air traffic 
controllers in Milan added to delays. In the US, Delta said it would cut 100 flights a day this summer in order to 
minimise disruption. But bosses at Ryanair and Jet2 have been clear that the UK suffers from an additional crunch 
to worker supply from Brexit. The ideological constraints of the government, led by Boris Johnson fighting for his 
political survival, mean it is unlikely to grant an emergency visa scheme to ground crew in the EU, as it has done for 
other understaffed key roles such as poultry workers and HGV drivers.
The government, which was warned by both industry and a  parliamentary committee of looming turmoil, deserves 
criticism. Confusing restrictions on air travel only lifted in March, leaving the industry scrambling to fill vacancies. 
While it has gone some way to meet industry demands that background checks be speeded up, the government 
could have done more, sooner. In a sector with such a fragmented supply chain, ministers need to take a 
coordinating role.
But the industry was well aware of the problems it faced, and how long they might take to resolve. It therefore had 
no business selling tickets it could not honour.  Flight cancellations today are a result of earlier overselling. Airlines 
need to take action now to alleviate passenger misery this summer, when planned strike action in the UK and 
Europe could make things worse. Cutting flights weeks before travel, when passengers can try to make alternative 
arrangements, is the least bad option. Cutting them after passengers arrive at the airport is inexcusable. The 
industry must not make promises it cannot keep.
Letter in response to this editorial comment:
 Airlines should focus on passenger comfort /  From Peter Knapp, Group Chairman, Landor & Fitch, London SE1, 
UK
Load-Date: June 22, 2022
End of Document
Letter: Britons  with   Irish  passports would face awkward test
Letter: Britons  with  Irish  passports would face awkward test
 
FT.com
June 8, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 100 words
Body
On reading your article about Ryanair and South African passengers (“South African passengers of Ryanair face 
Afrikaans test”,  Report, June 6), the thought immediately came to mind: I presume that Ryanair requires 
passengers with Irish passports to complete a general knowledge questionnaire in Irish Gaelic?
If so, this will be awkward for those residents of the UK who have recently acquired that nationality in order to 
facilitate travel within the EU.
Mike Pugh
London IG8, UK
Letter in response to this letter:
 Ireland makes mockery of Ryanair’s language test /  From Adrian P Hewitt, London N5, UK
Load-Date: June 13, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair forces South African customers to prove ID with Afrikaans test
Ryanair forces South African customers to prove ID with Afrikaans test
 
FT.com
June 5, 2022 Sunday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 615 words
Byline: Joseph Cotterill in Johannesburg
Body
Ryanair is making South African nationals take a general knowledge test in Afrikaans to prove their nationality 
before they are allowed to board its planes in the UK and the rest of Europe, sparking accusations of racial 
discrimination.
The airline has been telling South African passport holders, including UK residents, that they will be turned away 
unless they complete the test, despite Afrikaans being only the third most-spoken language in the country, and its 
history of enforced use under apartheid.
South African travellers told the Financial Times that they were humiliated by the unannounced test, which  Ryanair 
said had been prompted by cases of fake passports but was not an official UK requirement.
“It’s extremely exclusionary . . . they didn’t think about the implications” of the test in light of South Africa’s history, 
said Zinhle Novazi, a South African in the UK who does not normally speak Afrikaans but was made to take the test 
in order to board a flight from Ibiza last week. “It definitely does amount to indirect racial discrimination.”
The airline’s 15-question test, which was seen by the FT, contains grammatical and spelling errors, and the 
questions include which side of the road South Africans drive on and the name of the country’s highest mountain.
Dinesh Joseph, a South African resident in the UK, said he was told at the Ryanair desk that he could not board a 
flight home from Lanzarote in May without the test, despite not speaking Afrikaans.
Ryanair forces South African customers to prove ID with Afrikaans test
“It is the indignity of being told you can’t have it in the language you speak,” said Joseph, who has filed an official 
complaint. “You can’t profile and spot-check people like this.”
“Due to the high prevalence of fraudulent South African passports, we require passengers travelling to the UK to fill 
out a simple questionnaire issued in Afrikaans,” Ryanair said. “If they are unable to complete this questionnaire, 
they will be refused travel and issued with a full refund.”
The South African Department of Home Affairs has recently publicised alleged cases of officials providing fake 
passports to criminal syndicates but has not linked this to travel to the UK or Europe. There have been arrests, and 
investigations are ongoing.
Afrikaans is widely but far from universally spoken in South Africa. It is the third most-used language in households, 
after Zulu and Xhosa. But under apartheid, Afrikaans was often forced upon black South Africans by the white 
minority regime. 
 South Africa’s post-apartheid constitution established multiple official languages, including English, as a result.
“We have quite a strong past. I’m a person of colour. There’s a certain unconscious triggering that happens,” 
Joseph said. “It is super callous and insensitive of them to pick one particular language.”
Nomfundo Dlamini, a South African in the UK who said she was also given the test alongside colleagues, told South 
African national radio this week that Ryanair’s policy was “Apartheid 2.0 . . . further oppression, further 
discrimination.”
South African travellers said they were baffled by how general knowledge questions on South Africa were meant to 
verify their identity documents. “Any non-South African could answer those questions,” Novazi said.
“How does that prove in any way my passport is fake? For me there is no connection,” Joseph said. “They didn’t 
even look at my Schengen visa,” which requires biometrics and other verification to travel in Europe, he added. “It’s 
bizarre — it’s ludicrous, actually — and it is genuinely offensive.”
Additional reporting by Philip Georgiadis in London
Letter in response to this article:
 Britons with Irish passports would face awkward test /  From Mike Pugh, London IG8, UK
Load-Date: June 8, 2022
End of Document
Travellers told to arrive at UK airports no more than three hours before flights
Travellers told to arrive at UK airports no more than three hours before 
flights
 
FT.com
June 2, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 745 words
Byline: Alice Hancock and Harry Dempsey in London
Body
Travellers trying to get away from the UK over the Jubilee bank holiday weekend have been advised to arrive no 
more than three hours before their flights as snaking queues add to the chaos at short-staffed airports.
Tui and Ryanair are among airlines and holiday companies advising customers to arrive at UK airports three hours 
before their flights to allow time to check in, rather than the usual two-hour slot.
But customers arriving six or seven hours before flights were causing more problems, one travel industry executive 
said. “The ecosystem works when people come when they are intended to come and join the queue.”
Tui said that since the disruption earlier in the week — a result of a lack of airport staff to service flights amid 
soaring demand — schedules had stabilised and it expected to send 27,000 people on holiday on Friday with no 
further cancellations except six flights out of Manchester airport.
The Anglo-German holiday company said on Tuesday that it planned to cancel six flights a day from Manchester 
until the end of June, as that was where problems with staffing have been most acute.
Between Thursday and Sunday, 10,794 flights are expected to depart from the UK, according to the aviation tracker 
Cirium, with capacity for some 1.9mn passengers. Between May 30 and Thursday morning 207 flights had been 
cancelled, with Gatwick airport the most badly affected.
Travellers told to arrive at UK airports no more than three hours before flights
The issues have been widespread across Europe, industry executives said, with long delays reported at airports 
including Brussels, Schiphol in Amsterdam and Bratislava.
Paul Charles, an adviser to the travel industry, estimated that the sector was missing about a third of its pre-
pandemic workforce and efforts to recruit were hampered by delays to security clearances and companies no 
longer being profitable enough to offer competitive wages.
“It is an issue that has to be solved in the next six weeks before the next peak in mid-July, which will be even busier 
than now,” he said.
During the pandemic airlines and airports laid off thousands of staff as travel came to a standstill, and they have 
struggled to recruit workers in line with volatile demand.
Simon Cooper, chief executive of the online travel company On The Beach, said difficulties at airports meant “the 
whole industry is suffering”, with contact centre staff having to deal with high call volumes from worried customers.
“It’s very difficult to put someone on an alternative flight with 24 hours notice so [customers have to rebook],” he 
said.
On The Beach had been forced to cancel holidays but only into the “hundreds”, Cooper said, as it was not reliant on 
Tui and easyJet, which have experienced the most cancellations.
Stansted, the UK’s third busiest airport, said it was operating normally on Thursday, processing more than 12,000 
passengers by 7am against its daily forecast for 45,000 passengers departing and 40,000 arriving.
“We advise passengers to arrive as advised by their airlines and not to turn up any earlier than required,” it said.
Gatwick airport said: “The airport is operating normally today but will be busy today with 733 flights. We continue to 
advise passengers to arrive at the airport as soon as check-in opens for their flight. Typically, this is three hours for 
long haul and two to two-and-a-half for short haul.”
Heathrow airport, the UK’s largest hub, said there were 10 to 15-minute queues during the morning peak but it had 
not seen the scale of flight cancellations or delays compared with other airports in the country.
Manchester airport has been advising passengers to arrive three hours before their flights. It said security queues 
have generally been within 30 minutes, with occasional spikes of 60-90 minutes.
“However, we continue to advise passengers there will be some instances when queues will be longer than we 
would like and that is why we ask those travelling through Manchester to arrive three hours before their flight and to 
be as prepared as they can be.”
Swissport, its ground handling provider that the airport has blamed for the Tui flight cancellations, said it was 
“working hard to address our resource challenges, with over 2,800 new hirings since the start of the year”. 
It is one of a number of services to “deliver different elements of a single passenger journey and in busy periods the 
knock-on effects of delays stemming from one part, such as air traffic issues, security queues and late changes to 
flight schedules can lead to disruption in others,” it said.
Load-Date: June 2, 2022
End of Document
Airlines warn disruption at UK airports likely to continue into summer
Airlines warn disruption at UK airports likely to continue into summer
 
FT.com
May 31, 2022 Tuesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 684 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Jim Pickard in London
Body
Airlines fear that disruption at UK airports will continue into the summer as the travel industry struggles to deal with 
growing passenger numbers, and flight delays and cancellations accumulate.
Airlines for Europe, Europe’s largest airline association, expects the problems plaguing the industry in the UK and 
Europe to persist “for a good chunk of the summer season”, according to a briefing document seen by the Financial 
Times. 
The group, whose members include easyJet, British Airways owner IAG and Ryanair, blamed a combination of staff 
shortages across the industry, higher than normal sickness rates and long waits for new staff to pass background 
checks. 
The warning came as UK ministers criticised the travel industry for staffing shortages that have caused weeks of 
disruption to air travellers, with the pressure set to intensify during the busiest week for flying since the start of the 
pandemic, as the school half-term break coincides with a two-day bank holiday to commemorate the Queen’s 
platinum jubilee. 
Lord Stephen Parkinson, the arts minister, said on Tuesday that the government had “for many months” been 
urging the aviation industry to make sure it had enough staff to allow passengers to travel smoothly this summer as 
most coronavirus-related travel restrictions had been lifted across the UK and continental Europe.
Airlines warn disruption at UK airports likely to continue into summer
“We have been saying to the industry for quite some time they should have been prepared for this,” he told Sky 
News.
“It is causing a lot of distress for people, particularly at half term, people with families and children with them. It is 
very distressing if you turn up at the airport and your flight isn’t ready.”
Airlines, airports and ground handlers fired tens of thousands of staff as the pandemic hit their businesses, and 
have faced mounting criticism for not rehiring people quickly enough this year. Hundreds of flights have been 
cancelled in the past week.
But some aviation executives in the UK argued that they had to deal with two years of changing travel restrictions 
with less financial support than some of their European competitors. 
Airlines UK, an industry body, said the sector only had “a matter of weeks” to prepare for this summer after travel 
restrictions were lifted in March, and that the “vast majority” of flights would operate as scheduled. 
The Airport Operators Association said companies had been recruiting for months, “but until the restrictions were 
lifted, uncertainty about the future of travel made this difficult”.
Tui, the Anglo-German holiday company, on Tuesday said it had taken the “incredibly difficult decision” to cancel 43 
flights a week from Manchester airport in June. The airport blamed staff shortages at Tui and ground handler 
Swissport. 
Passengers flying on easyJet complained of shambolic scenes at Gatwick airport over the weekend, including 
cancellations and delays. The low-cost airline has cancelled 24 flights a day between May 28 and June 6 to try to 
avoid last-minute cancellations.
Nearly 19,000 flights are scheduled to depart from UK airports this week, the most since the start of the pandemic 
in spring 2020, according to data provider Cirium.
“Things could get worse this summer before they get better,” said Garry Graham, deputy general secretary of 
Prospect union, which represents staff in the aviation industry, including air traffic control. 
John Strickland, an aviation consultant, forecast a “long summer of discontent” and said the only solution was for 
airlines to cancel flights well in advance to inject more reliability into their operations. 
“The resolution of staff issues cannot be addressed quickly, and it is clear the problems exist in many parts of the 
world. Operational performance of many airlines and airports will be inconsistent as the peak season unfolds,” he 
said. 
Louise Haigh, shadow transport secretary, said the Conservative government was “missing in action” amid weeks 
of travel chaos. 
“Tory ministers can’t even get the basics right. They should show some responsibility, do their job, and take 
concrete steps to tackle the chaos growing on their watch,” she said.
Load-Date: March 20, 2023
End of Document
Letter: Why Boeing is looking homeless and clueless
Letter: Why Boeing is looking homeless and clueless
 
FT.com
May 23, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 252 words
Body
“When sorrows come, they come not single spies, but in battalions!” said Claudius in Hamlet — a most relevant 
thought for aerospace and defence company Boeing to nurse at a time when the company appears to be both 
homeless and clueless (“Boeing accused of heading in wrong direction with move to Virginia HQ”,  Report, May 18; 
and “Ryanair chief claims Boeing managers ‘not up to the job’”,  Report, May 17).
Boeing is abandoning Chicago for a new headquarters near Washington, DC, in Arlington, Virginia at a time when 
there are a litany of problems facing the company’s civil aviation division. A return to the aerospace group’s spiritual 
home in Seattle might have sent a powerful message to customers and employees alike — a declaration that 
Boeing means to address its many challenges while it attempts to emerge from the 737 Max crisis and other 
setbacks on civil and military programmes that have dented customer and investor confidence. 
A board is a team, not a bystander, nor a corporate body frozen by groupthink. A company that ought to celebrate 
the engineering culture which made it a great name in aerospace is now focusing its attentions on government 
relations rather addressing its myriad delivery problems and building back confidence with its customers. 
It would seem that Boeing’s board has subordinated common sense and chosen to be frozen by the glare of big 
government, which is likely to yield nothing more than scorn and reproach.
Professor Randall Peterson
London Business School London NW1, UK
Letter: Why Boeing is looking homeless and clueless
Load-Date: May 23, 2022
End of Document
Short cuts: the little island becoming Europe’s aviation hotspot
Short cuts: the little island becoming Europe’s aviation hotspot
 
FT.com
May 21, 2022 Saturday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 404 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Wizz Air has announced plans to set up a subsidiary in Malta, underscoring the emergence of the tiny island nation 
(population just over 500,000) as Europe’s unlikeliest new aviation powerhouse.
The fast-growing Budapest-based airline, which was founded in 2003 and now operates a fleet of 153 aircraft, 
hopes to have its Maltese business up and running by October. Chief executive József Váradi says the move will 
support further expansion and that he is exploring options to set up more subsidiaries and bases in Europe and 
beyond.
The airline’s arrival in Malta is part of a much larger trend. The country, 55 miles off the south coast of Sicily, is the 
world’s 10th smallest and only has seasonal tourist traffic, yet more than 500 aircraft are registered there, according 
to KPMG calculations. That leaves it with more aircraft than hotels. 
Ryanair subsidiaries Malta Air and Lauda Europe were set up on the island in 2019 and 2020 respectively and 
together now operate more than 170 aircraft. Earlier this year, Lufthansa’s Eurowings Europe announced plans to 
move to the country, which is already home to private jet companies such as VistaJet and Luxwing.
The weather may be good and the location helpful to link up parts of southern Europe, but the aviation industry’s 
sudden rush to Malta is based on pure economics. 
Short cuts: the little island becoming Europe’s aviation hotspot
“Malta is seen as attractive for airlines with lower aircraft registration costs and a favourable tax regime,” says Mark 
Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody. According to tax advisory firm EMD, one of the most attractive 
incentives for airlines is that income from operations outside Malta is exempt from taxation in the country. 
Other tax breaks include incentives on aircraft parts and lease payments, and there is a personal tax rate of only 15 
per cent for people working in aviation. Meanwhile, the country is part of the EU, and flight operations come under 
European Aviation Safety Agency jurisdiction, making it straightforward to operate across the continent. 
But has the influx of airlines helped if you actually want to get to Malta? Don’t count on it. Many Maltese-registered 
planes will only rarely visit the island. On a typical day this week, 150 flights landed or took off from the country, 
roughly the same number as in Latvia, Lithuania or Albania, and 3 per cent of the number going to the UK or 
Germany. 
Follow  @ftweekend on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first
Load-Date: May 21, 2022
End of Document
EasyJet optimistic about summer as leisure travel demand picks up
EasyJet optimistic about summer as leisure travel demand picks up
 
FT.com
May 19, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 413 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Low-cost airline easyJet said the operational problems plaguing the airline industry would not derail a strong 
summer, but cautioned that the financial pressures facing consumers might threaten demand later in the year.
The London-listed airline said on Thursday that it expected to fly 90 per cent of its pre-pandemic schedule between 
April and June, rising to 97 per cent for the following three months.
Bookings have risen to 6 per cent above 2019 levels in the past 10 weeks, thanks to a surge in demand for leisure 
and domestic flying as travel restrictions have eased. 
EasyJet’s aims are slightly more cautious than rival Ryanair, which this week outlined plans to fly 115 per cent of its 
2019 flight schedules in the summer.
The rapid recovery has come as parts of the  aviation industry have struggled to cope with the sudden influx of 
passengers.  EasyJet was forced to cancel scores of flights this spring because of staff shortages exacerbated by a 
wave of Covid-related absences.
The airline went as far as stripping out some seats from its planes to allow it to fly with fewer crew under flight 
safety regulations, but chief executive Johan Lundgren said the problems had not hit bookings and that people 
were still keen to travel.
“Bookings are not affected and are particularly strong, it shows the pent up demand is there,” he said.
EasyJet optimistic about summer as leisure travel demand picks up
Despite the optimism, the company joined Ryanair in declining to give guidance for the rest of its financial year, 
which ends in September, pointing to “the continued level of short-term uncertainty” driven by customers booking 
later than was normal before the pandemic. 
Lundgren said he expected the cost of living crisis to “certainly have some effect”.
“It is too early to tell, but there is uncertainty over how this plays out in the winter,” he added. 
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary has gone further and warned of a tough winter amid fears of a recession 
and pressure on consumer spending.
Both easyJet and Ryanair have said they expect to be insulated against the worst effects of the cost of living crisis 
because passengers have historically turned to lower-fare airlines when faced with economic uncertainty.
“Even with a negative outlook, we know we will be in a better position than others,” said Lundgren.
EasyJet reported a pre-tax loss of £545mn for the six months to the end of March, down from a loss of £701mn the 
previous year and in line with guidance issued last month. Revenues rose more than fivefold to £1.5bn.
Load-Date: May 19, 2022
End of Document
Algorithmic pricing is both efficient and absurd
Algorithmic pricing is both efficient and absurd
 
FT.com
May 19, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 752 words
Byline: John Thornhill
Body
Deterred by the £260 cost of a return train ticket to London,  one Sunderland football fan has found a cheaper way 
to cheer on his team at Wembley this weekend: travel via Menorca. A Ryanair flight to the Spanish island, an 
overnight stay in an airport hotel, a return flight to London and a cadged car ride back home work out cheaper than 
the extortionate cost of a rail ticket. 
The experience of this Black Cats’ supporter encapsulates the costs, benefits and occasional absurdity of 
algorithmic pricing, now used by most train and airline companies to maximise yield. Companies can rapidly 
increase prices to exploit surging demand from football fans, for example. But they can also automatically lower 
prices to entice customers in weaker market conditions, as is the case with budget airlines. 
At a time when consumers are fixated on rapidly  rising inflation, price-setting mechanisms should come under 
greater scrutiny. But digital marketplaces present a particular challenge given so many prices are set by automated 
algorithms rather than slow-moving humans. Plus, speed and flexibility of service can often prove more important 
determinants of online purchases than price. 
The promise of dynamic pricing is that it better matches supply and demand, producing greater economic 
efficiencies. But it should certainly be attracting more attention from regulators than it currently does. There is 
mounting evidence that algorithmic pricing can also lead to unfair discrimination between consumers and 
encourage implicit collusion between firms, raising prices overall.
Algorithmic pricing is both efficient and absurd
The positive case for dynamic pricing is made persuasively by Yossi Cohen, who sells such services. The Israeli 
co-founder of Quicklizard explains how his company combines historic data, product inventories and cost structures 
with external variables, such as competitors’ prices, economic indicators and the weather, to automate pricing 
decisions. “We help companies find the sweet spot on the demand curve,” says Cohen.
The industry yardstick is that dynamic pricing can increase a retailer’s bottom line by 7 to 10 per cent, which makes 
a critical difference in a sector notorious for thin margins. But he argues that the ubiquity of price comparison sites 
also empower consumers to get the best deals. “Online commerce has changed the equilibrium in favour of the 
consumer,” Cohen says.
Intuition would suggest that an online retailer’s ability to track and automatically respond to rivals’ price cuts should 
increase competition. But  two papers, co-authored by Alexander MacKay, an assistant professor at Harvard 
Business School, concluded the opposite.
In studying  how dynamic pricing works in the real world, MacKay found that when a company with a sophisticated 
pricing algorithm instantly matched its rivals’ price cuts, product prices rose over time. A competitor with inferior 
technology would have no incentive to lower prices. “That takes price competition off the table,” says MacKay.
Even if there is no overt price collusion to excite the interest of the antitrust authorities, dynamic pricing can weaken 
competition. Savvy, time-rich consumers might be able to shop around and take advantage of time-limited offers 
and promotions, but others cannot. “The beautiful thing about competition is that when there is a lot of it consumers 
do not have to be particularly sophisticated to benefit from it,” MacKay says. 
In the past, regulators have stepped in to correct abuses of pricing innovations and market power. So, for example, 
retailers are banned in many countries from selling goods at below cost to drive competitors out of business. 
But the challenge of regulating online marketplaces is mind-bendingly complex considering their velocity and 
opacity. Companies can also personalise offers, meaning no two customers necessarily see the same one. The 
ecommerce giant  Amazon changes prices 2.5m times a day across all its product lines. 
History suggests blanket price controls are a bad idea. MacKay and his co-authors offer two more innovative 
remedies. One would be to limit the frequency with which online companies can change prices. The second would 
be to bar companies from including competitors’ prices in their own algorithmic models. Both measures would 
encourage more blind competition and discourage implicit collusion.
Short of such regulatory intervention, consumers will have to rely on their own wits to navigate digital markets. The 
trouble is not all of us have the ingenuity of Sunderland football fans. 
Load-Date: May 19, 2022
End of Document
BA owner provides boost for Boeing with order of 50 737 Max jets
BA owner provides boost for Boeing with order of 50 737 Max jets
 
FT.com
May 19, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 441 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Sylvia Pfeifer in London
Body
British Airways owner IAG has agreed to order 50 Boeing 737 Max jets, handing the US aerospace group a much-
needed boost as it struggles to overcome a series of production delays to its core programmes.
IAG on Thursday said the order for the narrow-bodied aircraft was worth $6.25bn at list prices, but that it had 
secured a “substantial discount” following negotiations. 
The order is a boost for Boeing’s 737 single-aisle workhorse jet, and comes at a time when the Seattle-based 
company has faced criticism for a run of delayed deliveries and lost business to rival Airbus. 
Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary this week said Boeing needed new management to help turn round 
problems within its commercial aviation business, which have included certification issues on its major aircraft 
programmes.
Boeing has been steadily securing orders for the Max since it was declared safe to fly again by US aviation safety 
regulators in November 2020. Other regulators followed shortly afterwards. About two-thirds of the planes sold by 
the company in 2021 were variants of the Max.
IAG will take delivery of 25 Max 8200 aircraft, which are based on its core design for the single-bodied aircraft, and 
a further 25 Max-10, a newer larger variant that is yet to be certified by aviation safety regulators. 
Deliveries are scheduled to take place between 2023 and 2027, and the planes can be used across IAG’s stable of 
airlines, which includes BA, Iberia and Aer Lingus. The IAG order also contained options to order a further 100 jets.
BA owner provides boost for Boeing with order of 50 737 Max jets
The order represents a smaller version of an initial commitment made by IAG for up to 200 Max jets at the 2019 
Paris air show. 
The announcement was seen as a significant vote of confidence in the Max, which, at the time, was still grounded 
after two deadly crashes that killed 346 people and tarnished the reputation of the US aircraft manufacturer. 
Willie Walsh, then the chief executive of IAG, gave his backing to the manufacturer, telling reporters that he had 
“every confidence” in Boeing. 
On Thursday, Walsh’s successor Luis Gallego said the Max order was an “important part of IAG’s short-haul fleet 
renewal”, and that their fuel efficiency would help drive down carbon emissions. 
“With the selection of the 737-8-200 and larger 737-10, IAG has invested in a sustainable and profitable future, as 
both variants will significantly lower operating costs and CO₂ emissions,” said Stan Deal, president and chief 
executive of Boeing Commercial Airplanes.
“Today’s agreement . . . reflects our commitment to support the group’s continued network recovery and future 
growth with Boeing’s unrivalled family of aeroplanes.”
Load-Date: May 20, 2022
End of Document
Boeing needs a stronger vision to bounce back from crisis
Boeing needs a stronger vision to bounce back from crisis
 
FT.com
May 18, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 774 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger
Body
Dave Calhoun became chief executive of Boeing at its very  lowest ebb two years ago. His mission was to restore 
confidence in the company after revelations that Boeing had misled regulators to speed up certification of the 
flawed 737 Max jet, with deadly consequences. Today, it may take the departure of Calhoun himself, or some of his 
senior management, to achieve that goal.
In recent weeks the heads of Ryanair,  Emirates Airlines, leasing companies  Avolon and  Air Lease Corporation 
have all openly called for a change in the company’s performance, its culture, strategy or even leadership. Michael 
O’Leary of Ryanair this week  said Calhoun was “running out of time”. 
The comments follow a dire first-quarter results  announcement last month, in which Boeing unveiled a number of 
new charges and delays because most of its civil aircraft and defence programmes are not going to plan. 
Now it wants to  shift its headquarters from Chicago to Arlington, Virginia, home to the Pentagon, hobnobbing 
distance from Washington DC, and a more convenient location for some on the executive team who remain based 
on the east coast. 
For some commercial aircraft customers there may only be one conclusion to be drawn from the decision to move 
even further away from Seattle, where the company’s traditional aerospace expertise lies. Boeing management 
would rather shelter under the wing of government than get to grips with the tougher challenges of execution on its 
key programmes. 
Boeing needs a stronger vision to bounce back from crisis
This is surely not management’s intention. But such signals do matter. Boeing certainly doesn’t need a bigger 
presence in Washington. Last year it  ranked as one of the top 20 corporate spenders on lobbying services, 
according to the Open Secrets website.
The decision is raising questions over just how much has changed in the two years since Calhoun took over. 
One of his first pledges was to invest in the engineering capabilities that are crucial to programme execution. It was 
an acknowledgment that engineering skills had been hollowed out by years of cost-cutting, outsourcing and an 
excessive focus on short term gains that drove Boeing shares to a seven-fold rise between 2010 and 2019.  
In the past year, the company has spent roughly three times its budget for pay rises outside the usual annual 
increases, amounting to $22mn, according to the engineering union magazine, Spotlite, while the company has said 
some 3,500 new engineers were hired in 2021. But continuing problems suggest that more needs to be done. 
An obvious way to demonstrate that commitment to engineering — and to commercial customers — would be to 
locate top management in Seattle. It could be argued that leadership’s distance from the commercial operation was 
partly to blame for the problems that led to the Max disaster. Engineers no longer had the opportunity to voice their 
concerns to top management in person.
Boeing says it is “confident about the future, because of the hard and important work we’ve done”. It said this 
included enhancing safety and quality systems and strengthening engineering. “The effect of these fundamental 
changes will be measured in years,” it said. “Some have even created challenges for us in the short term. But they 
are the right steps to take.” 
But Boeing’s longer-term vision still remains unclear. Richard Aboulafia, consultant with AeroDynamic Advisory, 
points out that Boeing has significantly underspent on commercial research and development over the past five 
years compared to its rival Airbus.  
This has to change if the company is to make up lost ground. Boeing has promised that R&D will grow by double 
digits this year. But even greater ambition is required. The only way it will catch up on Airbus’ lead is to ditch the 
short-termism of previous management and invest in a new aircraft that offers greater benefits than those of its 
rival.
To do that, Boeing may need to launch an huge fundraising. With debt at $45bn, versus Airbus’ net cash, the US 
company is not in a position to invest the $10bn that would be required for a new jet.
The company insists a rights issue is not on the cards. But some analysts estimate Boeing could require $20bn or 
more to manage its current challenges and take on Airbus with a new aircraft. That would rank among the largest 
equity fund raisings in history. Investors are unlikely to foot the bill without extracting a price. If the much promised 
improvement in execution does not materialise soon, there is a risk that Calhoun and/or his top management may 
be the ones to pay.
Letter in response to this article:
 Dumping on Boeing ignores its great history /  From Phillip Hawley, La Jolla, CA, US
 
Load-Date: June 1, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair boss claims Boeing ‘not up to the job’
Ryanair boss claims Boeing ‘not up to the job’
 
FT.com
May 16, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 574 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Sylvia Pfeifer in London
Body
Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary has called for Boeing to make sweeping changes to its senior 
management to help fix a run of delayed deliveries and lost business to rival Airbus.
The Irish executive on Monday said the top bosses at Boeing’s commercial planes business were “not up to the 
job”, and had not fought hard enough to stop the Seattle-based aerospace company’s market share being “wiped 
out” by Airbus. 
Announcing results for the year to March, O’Leary said Boeing chief executive Dave Calhoun was “running out of 
time” to fix the problems, but stopped short of calling for him to leave the company.
“There has been very poor delivery for the last two years, and we think they need management changes on the 
civilian aircraft side because the management team in Seattle is not delivering. It has not delivered for two years 
and they’re not up to the job,” O’Leary said. 
Ryanair is one of Boeing’s biggest customers, and O’Leary has been publicly sparring with the manufacturer over a 
possible new order worth billions of dollars for 737 Max 10 jets, which the airline called off last year because of 
differences over prices.
Despite giving his qualified backing to Calhoun, who he said was doing a “reasonable job”, O’Leary said he needed 
to change management “pretty damn quickly”.
Ryanair boss claims Boeing ‘not up to the job’
“If he presides over more loss of market share, then maybe, you know, there’ll have to be wider management 
changes at Boeing generally,” he said. 
Ryanair has had problems in the deliveries of the smaller 737 Max plane from this year, and has been forced to 
“chop and change” its schedules because “Boeing keep missing delivery dates”, O’Leary said.
Boeing was not immediately available for comment. 
O’Leary’s criticism is the latest sign of growing frustration among Boeing customers as the US group grapples with 
a string of production delays and certification issues on its major aircraft programmes, stoking concerns over its 
management. Domhnal Slattery, chief executive of the world’s second-largest lessor, Avolon, told an industry 
conference this month that the company had “lost its way”.
The questions over Boeing’s leadership came as Ryanair forecast a return to “reasonable” profitability over the next 
year as the travel industry recovered from the pandemic, but warned that the outlook for flying remained fragile and 
vulnerable to new shocks.
The carrier posted a loss of €355mn for the 12 months to the end of March, towards the lower end of the previously 
guided range of €350mn to €400mn, and down from €1.015bn the year before.
The airline said it expected to carry more passengers this financial year than the record 149mn before Covid-19, 
and O’Leary said the airline would “do very well” over the summer if travel was not disrupted by a new coronavirus 
variant or spread of the war in Ukraine.
But he said it was “impossible” to give an accurate financial forecast for the year because of questions over how 
many people would fly this winter amid rising recessionary fears and pressures on consumer spending.
“We think the winter half of the year is likely to be overwhelmed with recessionary fears”, he said.
Shares in the Dublin-based group have declined more than 20 per cent this year, in line with many of its 
competitors, and fell 3 per cent in early trading on Monday.
Letter in response to this article:
 Why Boeing is looking homeless and clueless /  From Professor Randall Peterson, London Business School, 
London NW1, UK
Load-Date: May 23, 2022
End of Document
Heathrow boss at odds with industry as fight over fees heats up
Heathrow boss at odds with industry as fight over fees heats up
 
FT.com
April 30, 2022 Saturday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 851 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
For a time this spring, Heathrow’s chief executive John Holland-Kaye was mucking in on the frontline, stacking X-
ray trays at security to help keep queues moving at the short-staffed airport. 
Like the rest of the travel industry, the west London airport has roared back to life following two desperate years as 
border restrictions stifled business.
But Holland-Kaye is already into his next fight in a job that involves leading one of the most controversial 
businesses in UK aviation.
Britain’s busiest airport — which has suffered £4bn of losses since the start of 2020 — has caused a serious rift in 
the travel industry by pushing for a 90 per cent rise in the landing fees it charges, enraging airlines that have also 
suffered billions of dollars in losses and run up huge debts during the crisis.
The antipathy deepened this week when Holland-Kaye unveiled a downbeat assessment of the industry’s recovery, 
and warned the surge in demand for travel this spring and summer was merely a  “bubble” that could be popped 
this winter.
This view contrasts with a burst of positive commentary coming from other parts of the industry. British Airways’ 
owner IAG has said a “strong and sustained” recovery is under way. Holland-Kaye’s comments have fuelled 
accusations from airlines that he is deliberately talking down the recovery to persuade the UK regulator to allow 
Heathrow to hike its fees, which are charged on a per passenger basis.
Heathrow boss at odds with industry as fight over fees heats up
Virgin Atlantic said Heathrow was putting out “cynical forecasts and conflicting statements”, while the airlines trade 
body claimed the airport was “trying to drive up charges to support shareholder returns”.
Holland-Kaye argued he was simply trying to offer an honest assessment of an uncertain future. Heathrow does not 
forecast a return to profit or dividends this year.
“I think we are more realistic and we have been throughout the pandemic . . . it reflects the reality of the world we 
are living in,” he said this week. 
The battle over fees has, on occasion, become personal. 
Holland-Kaye was this year forced to step down from a Department for Transport recruitment panel following a 
backlash from airlines, which objected to his involvement as they rowed over fees.
The airline industry’s high-profile figures, including Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary and former BA boss Willie Walsh 
have delighted in berating Heathrow. 
To its detractors the sprawling airport is a monopoly that abuses its position to charge some of the highest fees in 
the world.
But to supporters, it is a vital trade and economic hub that should be allowed to charge more to invest and keep 
pace with European rivals after it was briefly overtaken as the region’s busiest airport during the pandemic. 
Unlike many airline bosses, Holland-Kaye is not an aviation industry lifer.
He joined Heathrow in 2009 after working in the housebuilding industry, including at Taylor Wimpey and Taylor 
Woodrow, and before that for a brewery and a stint at LEK, a consultancy. 
Holland-Kaye worked for five years in commercial and development roles at the airport before taking over as chief 
executive. This included overseeing the launch of the revamped Terminal 2, which was considerably more 
successful than the debacle when Terminal 5, the home of BA, opened 15 years ago amid chaos and technical 
failures.
The married father of two, who was paid £1.5mn in 2021, was stepping into inevitable controversy when he became 
Heathrow’s boss in 2014, a position that must navigate a string of politically and commercially sensitive issues.
Executives at Heathrow have argued that clashes with airlines over regulation and costs are inevitable.
Still, Holland-Kaye has taken a lower-key approach than Walsh or O’Leary, although did become the public face of 
the battle to build a third runway, which has pitted Heathrow against the communities surrounding it and local 
politicians.
A fierce planning battle now looms over the expansion, which Heathrow put back on the table this year, having 
methodically pushed through the process to secure political and legal approval. 
Heathrow has also long had a fractious relationship with the airline industry, particularly British Airways, its largest 
customer. 
However, industry figures said Holland-Kaye worked well with current BA chief executive, Sean Doyle, and the pair 
were in virtually daily contact during the pandemic, including joint pushes to persuade ministers to lift travel 
restrictions. They even staged a photo shoot stunt on one of Heathrow’s closed runways to highlight the aviation 
industry’s struggles, along with Virgin Atlantic boss Shai Weiss. 
The relationships he has worked hard to build are about to be tested perhaps more than ever
The Civil Aviation Authority will rule on how much Heathrow can charge to land at the airport later this year, and 
many industry executives expect the decision to be appealed whichever way it goes.
Heathrow boss at odds with industry as fight over fees heats up
One industry executive said Holland-Kaye had won huge goodwill for his efforts to persuade the government to 
drop its travel rules. But he has “smashed that all” by trying to raise fees at such a delicate moment, the person 
said. 
Load-Date: April 30, 2022
End of Document
Airlines split on masks after US judge throws out mandate
Airlines split on masks after US judge throws out mandate
 
FT.com
April 19, 2022 Tuesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 404 words
Byline: Steff Chávez in Chicago and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Some international airlines have dropped a requirement for passengers to wear masks on flights to and from 
America after a US judge threw out a Biden administration mandate. 
Judge Kathryn Kimball Mizelle, a Donald Trump appointee who sits on the federal bench in Florida, deemed the 
public transport mask mandate  unlawful on Monday, ruling that the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
exceeded its legal authority with the order. The CDC had  extended the mask rule until May 3.
After the ruling, leading US airlines including American Airlines, United Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Southwest Airlines 
and Alaska Airlines  announced that masks would be optional for employees, crew members and customers within 
US airports and on board aircraft. The change applies to domestic flights and some international ones, depending 
on the destination, and came despite a majority of people in the US  supporting a continuation of the mandate.
Videos posted to social media showed some US passengers applauding when crew members told them masks 
were now optional. 
UK carriers have followed suit, while French and German airlines are maintaining their mask mandates.
British Airways said it has moved immediately to give passengers personal choice over whether to wear a mask on 
a flight to the US, as did Virgin Atlantic. 
The US joined a host of Virgin’s Caribbean destinations where onboard masking is optional, but passengers must 
still wear masks on flights to destinations including South Africa, Hong Kong and India. 
Airlines split on masks after US judge throws out mandate
Lufthansa and Air France have not changed their policies and both airlines require passengers to wear a surgical 
face mask on board their aircraft, regardless of where they are flying. 
In the US, Uber, Lyft and Amtrak also lifted mask rules, as the CDC order applied to ride hailing and rail 
passengers. 
However, New York’s Metropolitan Transit Authority and the Chicago Transit Authority, which together oversee the 
country’s two largest public transport systems, are keeping mask orders in place.
The Biden administration is contemplating whether to appeal against the judge’s ruling.
Several UK airlines including British Airways and Virgin Atlantic, as well as Heathrow airport, dropped blanket rules 
requiring passengers to wear masks last month, as government measures against Covid-19 were dropped.
Europe’s largest airline by passenger numbers, Ryanair, has kept the requirement to wear a mask in place. 
Load-Date: April 19, 2022
End of Document
Wizz Air shares jump as it prepares to increase capacity to meet demand
Wizz Air shares jump as it prepares to increase capacity to meet demand
 
FT.com
April 14, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 391 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Transport Correspondent
Body
Shares in Wizz Air jumped on Thursday after the carrier said demand for air travel has built in recent weeks and 
outlined plans to increase its flying schedules. 
The airline, which is listed in London and based in Hungary, will fly 30 per cent more capacity than in 2019 between 
April and June, and 40 per cent more in the following three months, the industry’s peak summer period.
Jozsef Varadi, Wizz Air’s chief executive, said the Russian invasion of Ukraine had initially “dented demand for air 
travel”, but the airline expected passenger numbers to build significantly into the summer, particularly as people 
book late. 
“We are starting to see recovery take shape as we move closer to the summer of 2022,” Varadi added in a trading 
statement on Thursday. 
Shares in the airline climbed more than 7 per cent in morning trade, as investors welcomed further signs of a 
rebound in air travel.
“We view this update positively, as it confirms bookings are recovering strongly in a post-pandemic travel 
environment,” said analysts at Barclays.
Other European airlines including Ryanair and easyJet have also reported sharp rises in bookings, particularly from 
leisure travellers during peak holiday periods. 
Wizz Air shares jump as it prepares to increase capacity to meet demand
EasyJet this week said its capacity would rise to “near” pre-pandemic levels over the summer. 
Still, Wizz shares have fallen more than 30 per cent this year as the company’s exposure to eastern Europe and the 
soaring cost of oil have rattled investors. 
Wizz was unhedged when the oil price rose sharply in late February, but on Thursday said it had hedged 36 per 
cent of its planned jet fuel consumption from April to August. 
“Management has sensibly capitulated on its no-hedging policy,” said analysts at Goodbody. 
Wizz’s route network has suffered more than its competitors from the war in Ukraine. But while the airline has been 
forced to suspend flights to Ukraine, Moldova and Russia, it said it had managed to shift the spare planes to other 
parts of Europe.
The airline expects to report a net loss of between €632mn and €652mn for the 12 months to the end of March, 
more than the €576mn lost the previous year. 
But Wizz said its losses between January and March, its fiscal fourth quarter, had been lower than expected 
because the Omicron coronavirus variant had “proved to be of benign nature”, allowing travel restrictions to be 
relaxed. 
Load-Date: April 14, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair narrows guidance on expected losses
Ryanair narrows guidance on expected losses
 
FT.com
April 4, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 358 words
Byline: Robert Wright and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Europe’s largest low-cost airline Ryanair has warned its losses for the year to March 31 will be towards the lower 
end of its predictions.
The Dublin-based airline said it expected pre-exceptional losses for the financial year just ended to be in the 
€350mn to €400mn range. It previously gave a range of €250mn to €450mn for the period.
It also said passenger numbers had recovered to 97mn for the year, against 27.5mn for the year to March 31, 2021, 
but were still well below the 149mn annual figure before the pandemic.
Chief executive Michael O’Leary has warned that the European airline industry’s recovery has slowed in recent 
months, because of lockdowns imposed late last year to combat the Omicron coronavirus variant, and then the 
Russian invasion of Ukraine.
While people have begun flying again in significant numbers, Ryanair has kept ticket prices low outside busy 
periods to encourage people to book, O’Leary said last week. 
Mark Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody, said the changes to Ryanair’s financial guidance were “slightly 
disappointing”, but added that investors’ focus “remains on the build-up of demand over the next two months” as the 
peak spring and summer season begins. 
Ryanair narrows guidance on expected losses
O’Leary has predicted a rapid recovery over the next 12 months thanks to pent up demand for travel, when he 
expects Ryanair to carry more than 150mn passengers and swing back into profit, partly because it is well hedged 
against rising oil prices.
The airline said on Monday it had hedged 80 per cent of its expected fuel requirements over the next 12 months. 
Ryanair has one of the airline industry’s strongest balance sheets, and its net debt fell from €2.3bn to €1.5bn in the 
12 months to the end of March.
Its shares fell 1 per cent in morning trading in Dublin, taking their year-to-date declines to around 11 per cent. 
Its planes were 87 per cent full in March. Separately, low-cost Hungarian rival Wizz Air reported load factors of 86 
per cent.
Alex Irving, an analyst at Bernstein, said that these figures showed that “passengers were still booking and flying 
despite the war in Ukraine”. 
Ryanair will announce its full-year results on May 16.
Load-Date: April 4, 2022
End of Document
UK holidaymakers face travel chaos as Covid forces flight cancellations
UK holidaymakers face travel chaos as Covid forces flight cancellations
 
FT.com
April 4, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 911 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Oliver Barnes in London and Jennifer Williams in Manchester
Body
Holidaymakers have been warned to expect disruption when travelling over the spring and summer, as airlines and 
airports struggle to rehire staff following the pandemic. 
The Easter getaway got off to a difficult start as British Airways and easyJet cancelled scores of flights on Monday 
because of staff shortages, including from rising Covid-19 infections. 
Airlines had already cancelled 1,143 flights to and from the UK between March 28 and April 3, up from just 197 over 
the same period in 2019, according to data provider Cirium. 
The cancellations come at the start of the first busy travel period since all UK Covid travel rules were removed. 
Industry bosses have celebrated surging demand for foreign holidays after two years of pandemic restrictions. But 
they also fear that airports and airlines will be unable to handle the mass return of passengers after companies cut 
tens of thousands of jobs to help them survive the pandemic, particularly as Covid infections soar again.
“Airlines are certainly seeing a high level of demand to fly, but are simply unable to cope with that demand due to a 
lack of resources. It’s a nightmare situation for airlines and airports at the moment,” said Paul Charles, a travel 
industry consultant. 
Delta’s chief executive said last month that UK delays were a “real concern” for his airline, while Ryanair boss 
Michael O’Leary has questioned whether airports will be able to handle this summer’s busiest periods.
UK holidaymakers face travel chaos as Covid forces flight cancellations
The Airport Operators Association has warned that operations could face “some strain” in the coming months, and 
told passengers to expect longer queues at peak travel times.
Karen Dee, the lobby group’s chief executive, blamed “a very competitive labour market” and delays in government 
security background checks on new staff.
One aviation executive said it was taking much longer than usual for staff to go through government-required 
background checks, in part because large parts of the travel industry had started recruiting simultaneously. 
British Airways, for example, fired about 10,000 staff in 2020 as the airline industry was plunged into crisis, and has 
outlined plans to rehire at least 3,000 of them.
The government said its officials “continued to process security clearances in a timely manner”.
Manchester airport, the busiest outside London, faced chaos heading into the weekend as passengers reported 
waits of up to 30 hours and others missed their flights amid severe staff shortages.   
During the height of the pandemic the airport laid off thousands of staff, pointing to an “absence of dedicated 
support for the sector” from the government.
Since then it has struggled to recruit and train recruits fast enough to match the recovery in demand.
Unions believe the industry is reaping the consequences of firing too many workers during the pandemic.
Unite general secretary Sharon Graham said: “We warned the aviation sector repeatedly not to use the cover of 
Covid to slash jobs and pay. This would render it unable to meet demand when passengers returned.”
Others pin some of the blame on the end of the government’s job retention scheme in September, when some 
furloughed workers were not rehired, and say that key skills have been lost over the past two years.
Martin Chalk, head of pilots’ union Balpa, said he had raised the industry’s lack of operational resilience 
“repeatedly” with aviation minister Robert Courts and others within government.
“UK aviation has benefited from less generous government support than other countries’ airlines and is therefore in 
a weaker position to resource for this continued disruption,” he said.
The problems have been exacerbated by the latest wave of Covid infections sweeping the UK.
The UK has been hit by record-high infection rates in recent weeks because of a Covid resurgence driven by the 
highly infectious Omicron BA.2 sub-variant. 
“We have an unprecedented level of mild illness at the moment and that’s obviously quite disruptive for the 
workforce,” said Andrew Hayward, professor of infectious disease epidemiology at University College London. 
About 2.5 per cent of workers in the transport sector were self-isolating on March 19, according to the Office for 
National Statistics, higher than the peak of just above 2 per cent during the first Omicron wave in late January.
BA and easyJet cancelled 120 flights to and from the UK between them on Monday. 
EasyJet said it was “experiencing higher than usual levels of employee sickness”, and that it had brought in extra 
crew to address the issue.
Sixty flights into and out of the UK were cancelled, with most on routes where there are multiple flights a day to help 
minimise disruption.
UK holidaymakers face travel chaos as Covid forces flight cancellations
BA also cancelled 60 flights on Monday because of a combination of Covid absences and wider operational 
challenges as it tries to ramp-up its flight schedules with fewer staff. About 10 of the cancellations were directly 
because of Covid.
“While the vast majority of our flights continue to operate as planned, as a precaution we’ve slightly reduced our 
schedule between now and the end of May as we ramp back up,” the airline said.
Separately, services on the Eurotunnel rail link between England and France were delayed by up to five hours on 
Monday because of an earlier faulty train in the Channel Tunnel.
“The aviation industry is responsible for resourcing at airports and they manage their staff absences, although we 
want to see minimal disruption for passengers during the Easter period,” the government said. 
Load-Date: April 5, 2022
End of Document
Airlines under pressure to pass on costs as fuel prices surge
Airlines under pressure to pass on costs as fuel prices surge
 
FT.com
April 1, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 831 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in Brussels
Body
The soaring price of fuel threatens the airline industry’s recovery just as passengers are returning to the skies.
As crude prices remain elevated, airline bosses face a critical calculation: how much of their fuel bill can they pass 
on to customers without leaving their planes empty?
The heads of Europe’s biggest airlines met in person for the first time in two years this week at a conference in 
Brussels, each reporting a burst of demand as pandemic-related travel restrictions are rolled back. 
Lufthansa’s chief executive Carsten Spohr said his airline would fly more short-haul routes this summer than in 
2019, while British Airways owner IAG plans to return to pre-pandemic levels of transatlantic flying by the summer. 
Leading the pack, Ryanair expects to fly 165mn passengers in this financial year, which began in April, up on 
150mn before the pandemic. 
“There’s big pent-up demand for the summer, there is just no doubt about that,” said easyJet’s chief executive 
Johan Lundgren. 
But the price of fuel — which can make up as much as a third of an airline’s costs — threatens the profitability of 
this rapid recovery. 
Airlines under pressure to pass on costs as fuel prices surge
Jet fuel has risen by a third to more than $150 per barrel since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine plunged commodity 
markets into turmoil. The rise to 14-year highs has outpaced even Brent crude, as airlines have been forced to pay 
a premium for the refined product.
US airlines have already indicated they will pass on the fuel costs to consumers, betting that passenger demand is 
robust enough to withstand it. Delta, for example, has said it needs to recoup between $15 and $20 each way on an 
average ticket value of about $200 to offset higher fuel costs.
Some airlines have introduced fuel surcharges, which are treated like government taxes that make new tickets 
more expensive and appear as extra charges when redeeming air miles. Air France and KLM have said long-haul 
flights will get more expensive. A KLM return flight from Amsterdam to New York will rise by €40 in economy class 
and €100 in business. 
Spohr of Lufthansa was unequivocal that airlines needed to “make sure our business model still works” in an 
environment that also included higher airport and staff costs. “Inflation eventually hits every industry,” he said.
Low-cost airlines are particularly vulnerable as fuel costs make up a higher proportion of overall ticket prices than 
their full-service competitors, which charge more for seats. 
As higher inflation, including soaring energy costs, hits European consumers, travellers hunting for cheaper flights 
are likely to be more cost-sensitive, making it difficult to raise prices without hitting demand.
EasyJet’s Lundgren said that “inevitably” airlines would have to bear some of the costs themselves, but added the 
deep cost cuts forced on the aviation industry by the pandemic would help cushion the blow. 
“We’re always got to make sure that we can offer really, really attractive fares for passengers. And pricing is super-
dynamic,” he said. 
Demand for travel this summer was strong, but outside of these peak periods customers still needed enticements, 
said Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary.
“I am sad to report that currently at Ryanair, ticket prices are falling in April and May, they are softer than in 2019,” 
he said. “We are still trying to build back our forward bookings into the summer.” 
Ryanair is better protected than most, and has hedged 80 per cent of the fuel it expects to need this year at about 
$65 per barrel, a “fortuitous” decision that would help the company swing back into profit, said O’Leary. 
Low-cost rival Wizz Air, whose shares have tumbled almost 40 per cent this year, was unhedged when the war in 
Ukraine began, but reversed course and bought protection in March after the spot price had already soared.
Asked whether the spike in oil could turn out to be a surprise competitive advantage for Ryanair, O’Leary said his 
airline’s growth was constrained by the number of new deliveries arriving from Boeing. 
But he expected it to drive home his “cost advantage” as the industry recovered. 
AirBaltic’s chief Martin Gauss said airlines could not think in terms of just “passing” costs straight to consumers 
without taking into account prices on other airlines. 
“The market basically decides on the ticket price . . . If the market is not increasing prices then the higher fuel price 
just means you are either not taking passengers because you are not selling at the right price, or you are taking a 
higher loss,” he said.
Robert Boyle, a consultant and former head of strategy at IAG, said Ryanair could take advantage of its hedging 
position and strong balance sheet to keep ticket prices low and squeeze its competitors. 
Airlines under pressure to pass on costs as fuel prices surge
“The Ryanair factor is going to make it hard for other airlines to raise prices without seeing a big hit to demand,” he 
said. “If they do it anyway and just cut more capacity to absorb the volume loss, they will be ceding even more 
market share to Ryanair. It’s going to be a tough few months.”
Load-Date: April 2, 2022
End of Document
UK airline investors have an ESG problem
UK airline investors have an ESG problem
 
FT.com
March 30, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 760 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Being a green investor in the airline industry isn’t easy. But for UK shareholders, it’s become much harder in the 
past year. 
Some investors on the environmental, social and governance spectrum might not be willing to invest in airlines at 
all. Pre-pandemic, the industry is estimated to have accounted for about 2.5 per cent of global carbon emissions, 
with a larger effect still on global warming. 
But asset managers have moved past a policy of blanket divestment to one of engagement, attempting to influence 
companies’ actions so they are  more ESG-friendly. It’s hard to engage — or more to the point, influence — if you 
don’t have a say, though. And UK investors in EU airlines increasingly don’t. That should be a concern as we enter 
the annual meeting season. 
Airlines including Ryanair, easyJet and Wizz Air have  moved to disenfranchise UK shareholders, stripping the 
voting rights from their shares over the past 18 months. 
This is thanks to Brexit, which means that UK investors no longer count towards the requirement in the licences 
airlines need to fly between EU destinations that they are “majority owned and controlled” within the bloc. A legal 
quirk means that removing votes from shares satisfies both ownership and control requirements. In 1995 the 
European Commission decided in a case involving Swissair and Belgium’s national airline Sabena that shares 
counted only if they had, broadly, both rights to dividends and to vote. 
UK airline investors have an ESG problem
There is some debate about this: HSBC analyst Andrew Lobbenberg thinks that further action will be needed, citing 
moves by Ryanair to force non-EU investors to sell any shares they buy. But easyJet and Wizz seem to see the 
voting ploy as removing a headache that might otherwise require them to carry out complex restructurings (British 
Airways owner IAG, which hasn’t disenfranchised anyone, has insisted its intricate corporate structure meets all the 
rules already).
But while analysts assumed the issue would be ironed out between the UK and EU, it hasn’t been yet and there’s 
no sign it is about to be. 
That means each airline has come up with its own solution, admittedly approved by shareholders at past meetings. 
At easyJet, it’s “last in first out”: votes are removed from the newest non-EU shareholders up to the point that EU 
shareholders control a majority. Wizz operates proportional disenfranchisement, so every investor can at least vote 
some of its shares. Ryanair operates the most stringent approach of all: no UK shareholder is able to vote any of 
their shares, and non-EU investors are blocked from buying its ordinary shares. If they want to own Ryanair, they 
have to buy American depositary receipts on Nasdaq. 
The effects are not small. When easyJet held its annual meeting in February, the first since it changed its rules, 
about 30 per cent of its non-EU shareholder base had to be disenfranchised to create an EU voting majority. At 
Wizz, each UK shareholder stands to lose more than 85 per cent of their votes based on ownership figures at the 
end of last year. 
That has made a mockery of meeting turnout figures and hands disproportionate influence to the EU holders who 
can still vote. At Ryanair, turnout fell from 69 per cent in 2020 to 9 per cent when the rules were implemented last 
year. At easyJet, it went from 68 per cent to 36 per cent. At Wizz, 93 per cent of shareholders cast a vote at a one-
off meeting earlier this year. Only 14 per cent actually counted. 
Such disenfranchisement should be particularly concerning when investors are being asked to vote on proposals 
such as the Wizz chief executive’s  £100mn pay plan, approved last year on less than 16 per cent turnout after the 
airline curbed investors’ voting rights. In 2020, when UK shareholders could vote and turnout was above 80 per 
cent, investors rejected Wizz’s remuneration report. 
The airlines insist that they engage with all shareholders regardless of their voting status. They have been pursuing 
more climate-friendly policies such as switching to more efficient aircraft and increasing the amount of  sustainable 
aviation fuel they use. 
But surely the influence of a shareholder reduces if management knows they have been neutered. That should 
concern ESG investors who believe investing in aviation stocks can be justified on the basis that engaging with 
management enables them to secure more favourable policies. 
Until the rules are changed, ESG investors in airlines have a choice: divest, or accept their investment can make 
less of a difference than it should.
cat.rutterpooley@ft.com@catrutterpooley
Load-Date: March 30, 2022
End of Document
Directors’ Deals: Is Purplebricks a ‘doer upper’?
Directors’ Deals: Is Purplebricks a ‘doer upper’?
 
FT.com
March 25, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 641 words
Byline: Michael Fahy, Investors’ Chronicle
Body
Is there money to be made from a  Purplebricks rebuild? Calling the bottom on a company that has continually 
disappointed, losing more than 90 per cent of its value since 2018, would certainly be brave.
The online estate agency has struggled to get its house in order, having abandoned an international extension and 
got into a legal dispute with “contractors”. 
So even as the housing market boomed, it has not. 
Half-year results for the six months to October showed a pre-tax loss of £12.9mn on revenue of £41.3mn, partly 
because it has had to recognise sales agents it previously deemed to be self-employed as employees. It also 
secured fewer instructions, with its market share declining to 3.9 per cent, from 4.8 per cent a year earlier. 
The loss of faith in Purplebricks means its market capitalisation slipped to £74mn by March 18, which isn’t a great 
deal higher than the £58.3mn of cash it held on its balance sheet at the half-year stage.
A new chief financial officer, Steve Long, was appointed in February and chief executive  Vic Darvey’s departure 
was announced this month. Chief operating officer Helena Marston is stepping up to replace him.
Given the housing market is showing continued strength — average annual house price growth rose to 12.6 per 
cent in February, according to building society Nationwide — there are clearly some who think there’s money to be 
made in Purplebricks’ restoration.
Directors’ Deals: Is Purplebricks a ‘doer upper’?
JNE Partners disclosed on March 9 it had increased its stake in the company from 7 per cent to nearer 11 per cent. 
The London-based investor, a spinout from a vehicle set up to manage Dell Technologies’ founder Michael Dell’s 
wealth, focuses on buying shares and bonds trading at “substantial discounts to intrinsic value”, according to its 
website.
It is now Purplebricks’ second-biggest shareholder behind German media giant Axel Springer, which holds 26.5 per 
cent. Directors are also showing their faith. Non-executives Simon Downing and Elona Mortimer-Zhika, and the wife 
of chair Paul Pindar, spent more than £330,000 on shares between March 11 and 15, filings show. The latter two 
topped up holdings this week. 
Directors buying as Ryanair does more flying
As anyone who been a passenger on a  Ryanair flight knows, the Dublin-based airline is not shy about trumpeting 
its “industry-leading” safety record.
Shareholders, on the other hand, have endured more of a buffeting. Ryanair’s beta of 1.18 indicates that share 
price swings have been more volatile than the broader market over the past 12 months. This is understandable 
given the many changes that have taken place with travel restrictions and the knocks to confidence caused by the 
spread of new coronavirus variants. There’s also been the matter of its post-Brexit delisting from the London Stock 
Exchange to deal with.
The airline, however, remains as bullish as its chief executive, Michael O’Leary. After securing a “modest reduction” 
from Boeing for new 737 Max aircraft in December 2020, the company is ramping up expansion plans for this 
summer, when it will fly 114 per cent of its 2019 capacity as it looks to take a greater share of the market from 
competitors who have been weakened by the pandemic. 
Although the airline hasn’t exactly escaped unscathed — it posted a pre-tax loss of €1.1bn (£920mn) last year — it 
remains one of the strongest players in a region that has witnessed the fastest recovery in international air travel. In 
February, Ryanair’s load factor recovered to 86 per cent, from 79 per cent a month earlier. 
Two of Ryanair’s non-executives — Roisin Brennan and Geoff Doherty — seem upbeat about its prospects, buying 
about €56,000 and €499,000 worth of shares, respectively. 
They are not alone. According to FactSet, the consensus target price among analysts for Ryanair shares is €19.46, 
a 44 per cent uplift on the current trading price of €13.50. 
Load-Date: March 25, 2022
End of Document
‘Grand Theft Aero’: Russia ’s $10bn plane grab signals losses for lessors
‘Grand Theft Aero’: Russia’s $10bn plane grab signals losses for lessors
 
FT.com
March 21, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1074 words
Byline: Sylvia Pfeifer, Jude Webber, Robert Smith and Cynthia O’Murchu
Body
Three days after the invasion of Ukraine, a Boeing 737 — operated by Russia’s Pobeda but owned by Dublin-based 
Avolon — was impounded after landing in Istanbul.
The plane’s seizure came as European sanctions on Russia’s aviation sector prompted a  global scramble among 
overseas leasing groups to recover more than 500 aircraft, worth an estimated $10bn, that were stuck in the 
country.
But it was among the last to be repossessed, after the Kremlin moved to block such efforts last week by signing a 
new law allowing foreign jets to be re-registered in Russia.
“The Russian government is playing a game of what I call ‘Grand Theft Aero’,” said Paul Jebely, global head of 
asset finance at law firm Withers.
Russia’s actions could force the world’s largest leasing companies to write off billions of dollars worth of assets, 
raising the prospect of lengthy battles with insurers over who should foot the bill. 
Rating agencies have warned that the lost income from the leases has increased  risks to bondholders in deals 
backed by the aircraft. 
Moscow has flouted decades-old international treaties that provided security to lessors operating in more risky 
jurisdictions and helped underpin a boom in international travel. 
‘Grand Theft Aero’: Russia ’s $10bn plane grab signals losses for lessors
“This is the worst-case scenario, where a country unilaterally takes control of an aircraft’s register,” said Phil 
Seymour, president of aviation consultancy IBA. “It has never really been contemplated. There will be 
repercussions in terms of aircraft lease agreements.” 
Some industry executives have insisted that it was too early to write off the chances of these planes flying 
internationally again. Others, however, believe the chances are slim.
“From a planning perspective, we should assume that those aeroplanes are gone for all intents and purposes,” one 
executive said.
Dublin: the world’s aircraft leasing capital
The crisis has sent shockwaves through the aviation finance industry of Ireland, which is home to 14 of the world’s 
top 15 lessors, including market leader AerCap. 
Irish lessors manage more than €100bn in assets, 22 per cent of global aircraft and more than 40 per cent of those 
that are leased, according to IDA Ireland, the country’s investment promotion agency.
The leading position dates back to Ryanair co-founder Tony Ryan, who propelled Ireland into a leasing powerhouse 
with his company Guinness Peat Aviation (GPA), which he started in the 1970s with an investment of just £5,000.
A failed stock market listing led to the company’s downfall and the acquisition of its assets by GE Capital, but it left 
industry experts behind who were ready to compete in the niche leasing market.
GPA’s heritage is not the only reason Ireland became a global hub for the industry. Attractive tax and capital 
allowance rates have been a big draw. The country’s 12.5 per cent corporate tax rate has been one of the lowest in 
Europe, although Ireland has signed up to the OECD reform to lift it to 15 per cent.
The sector’s influence in Ireland’s economy has increased over the years, as other industries such as professional 
services have grown to support it. But despite the size of the industry, companies involved in aircraft leasing paid 
just €105.5mn in Irish tax in 2020, though additional tax liabilities were deferred. 
Irish-owned aircraft leased to Russian airlines are worth more than $4bn, according to estimates by aviation 
consultancy from Cirium. 
AerCap is the most exposed, with 152 planes valued at €2.1bn before the outbreak of the conflict, according to IBA 
data. Japanese-controlled SMBC Aviation Capital had 34 valued at $1.3bn, while Avolon had 14 valued at €320mn 
when the war broke out. All three groups declined to comment.
While the crisis may prove to be a significant financial hit to the companies’ balance sheets, it is not an existential 
threat. The lessors’ exposures are in the single digits in terms of the percentage of the total net book value of their 
fleets. At the end of last year, about 5 per cent of AerCap’s fleet by net book value was on lease to Russian airlines.
“It’s a big headache, maybe a migraine, but not a fatal one,” said Ross Harvey, leasing analyst at Irish stockbrokers 
Davy.
One senior Irish official ruled out any bailout for the sector.
The most immediate question for the lessors will be to ensure they have terminated all of their contracts in Russia 
by March 28, the deadline imposed under EU sanctions. 
In the very short term, most will have at least some protection in the form of security deposits, typically three 
months worth of lease rentals. IBA’s Seymour estimated that a carrier would typically have paid about $1mn a 
month in lease rental for a five-year-old Boeing 777. 
Legal battles 
‘Grand Theft Aero’: Russia ’s $10bn plane grab signals losses for lessors
Wrangles with insurance companies have  already begun. Some lessors are reviewing whether their aircraft hull 
insurance coverage will help them recover prospective losses, according to one industry consultant. 
One expert in aviation finance based in Dublin said he was aware of some lessors already receiving cancellations 
of war risk policies related to the coverage of aircraft. What is accepted as the trigger for a claim will be key.
Steven Udvar-Hazy, chair of US company Air Lease, said the new Russian law showed that Moscow intended to 
“confiscate” planes, adding that this would help lessors in claims with insurers.
“I think it helps the insurance question because it demonstrates the intent to confiscate which is, I think, a critical 
aspect of our war risk insurance,” he told a JPMorgan conference on Wednesday.
Withers’ Jebely, who is also chair of an international arbitration court for aviation set to launch in May, said Russia 
had painted itself as a “target for aircraft lessors and others to use investment treaty rights” to pursue “investor-
state” arbitration claims in international tribunals.
One senior leasing industry executive tried to strike a more sanguine tone, noting that: “[T]he war will be over at 
some stage. Russia has about 700 aircraft and the bulk are western-manufactured. The reality is a deal will have to 
be done . . . People have to be practical.”
Longer-term, there are concerns that the problem might arise elsewhere. 
“We spent decades trying to open up the Russian market to western finance and technology,” said one industry 
veteran.
“If this could happen in Russia, then could it happen in China? Russia is a market that the aviation industry can 
afford to lose in terms of a leasing and financing perspective. China is not.”
Load-Date: March 21, 2022
End of Document
EU wrangles over spiralling energy prices
EU wrangles over spiralling energy prices
 
FT.com
March 17, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1708 words
Byline: Valentina Pop
Body
Good morning and welcome to Europe Express.
Discussions over how to tackle spiralling energy prices, a situation worsened by the war in Ukraine, are likely to 
intensify in the coming days, with the European Commission tabling new proposals on Monday for leaders to 
consider at a summit later in the week. 
Southern nations are pleading for a muscular intervention on energy markets, while northern nations, including the 
Netherlands whose minister we spoke to, seek to tackle the crisis by doubling down on energy efficiency and 
investments in renewable energy. The political wrangling comes just as Europe’s largest energy traders  are asking 
governments and central banks to provide emergency assistance to avert a cash crunch caused by the sharp price 
increases. 
With more than 3mn Ukrainian refugees having now fled abroad, the EU is seeking to speed up efforts to ensure 
that they can exchange at least part of their savings into euros, given that many banks are reluctant to acquire 
Ukrainian hryvnias. 
And Ukraine’s ambassador to Dublin has outed low-cost carrier Ryanair for increasing its price on flights from 
Poland to Ireland, which are mainly used by refugees. 
High-voltage talks
EU wrangles over spiralling energy prices
The EU needs “step up our game” in the fields of energy efficiency and the dash for renewables if it is to fulfil its 
aspirations to wean itself off Russian gas, the Netherlands’ climate and energy minister has said, write Sam 
Fleming and Andy Bounds in Brussels. 
A number of southern European countries, including Spain, Greece and Italy, have been urging the EU to embrace 
price caps as a way of countering the recent surge in energy prices, alongside other potential reforms to the 
electricity markets. 
Their argument is that the market is not functioning well and the impact of the war in Ukraine is being felt in soaring 
electricity prices, which are  pegged to the price of gas. “It’s not a free market, it’s a free mess,” said one senior 
diplomat.
But Rob Jetten told Europe Express that the problem with measures such as price caps was that in the end 
someone would have to shoulder the cost — and this may end up falling on businesses or households. Spending 
money on price caps could mean diverting money away from wind farms, hydrogen and investments in energy 
efficiency, he added. 
The immediate focus should be on diversifying sources of gas supply, economising on energy use, and focusing on 
boosting gas storage ahead of next winter, he said, setting out his priorities for ridding the Netherlands and fellow 
EU member states of Russian gas “as soon as possible”. 
In Brussels, the European Commission is planning a 90 per cent target for gas storage by October. One way of 
fulfilling the goal would be to appoint a national company to purchase the gas needed for storage, Jetten said. 
Another would involve the use of contracts for difference to compensate companies for the price gaps between the 
summer and winter. Officials have also been looking at compulsory storage requirements.  
But in the medium term the focus needed to be on enacting the EU’s climate and energy efficiency agenda — 
including the emissions reductions in the Fit for 55 package. The Hague has a €35bn fund to deploy to turbocharge 
the building of wind and solar farms and hydrogen infrastructure, and the coalition on Friday will discuss “huge 
numbers” of new wind turbines in the North Sea. 
Jetten added that countries such as Spain and Portugal could use solar power “to become the green hydrogen 
producers of Europe”.
The Hague is also embarking on a national information campaign to encourage energy efficiency. Measures include 
servicing boilers to reduce waste energy, and money for low-income households to install insulation. 
Like other EU countries, the Netherlands is not  averse to domestic subsidies to support energy customers. But 
Jetten stressed that his priority was on supporting lower-income households. 
No easy fix
Brussels has said it wants to see urgent efforts to tackle the difficulties Ukrainian refugees are experiencing when 
they seek to convert savings they have brought with them into euros, write Sam Fleming in Brussels and Martin 
Arnold in Frankfurt. 
The European Commission was working with the European Central Bank to find a way of addressing barriers to 
converting Ukrainian hryvnia into the single currency in EU banks, said Valdis Dombrovskis, commission vice-
president.
The answer, he said, would involve euro-area countries providing support for a kind of “convertibility assistance”, 
which would permit a certain amount of savings to be swapped into euros. “We are working and are very much 
aware of the urgency” of addressing the issue, he said after the Ecofin meeting of finance ministers in Brussels on 
Tuesday.
EU wrangles over spiralling energy prices
The situation is not, however, an easy one to fix. Commercial banks are reluctant to hand out euros in exchange for 
hryvnia given the shattered state of the country’s economy and currency — and the difficulty in establishing any 
exchange rate. 
The ECB was asked last month by MEPs to come up with facilities to help Ukrainian citizens to exchange their 
hryvnia currency into euros. But as we have  written here, the ECB has been reluctant to provide euros in exchange 
for hryvnia without a specific guarantee from the EU or its member states to cover the risk of losses on the 
Ukrainian currency. 
The central bank’s rules mean it can only accept assets above a certain level of risk when establishing swap lines 
and repurchase agreements to provide euro liquidity to other central banks in exchange for collateral, which are 
often in foreign currencies.
One way of addressing the issue would be for Paschal Donohoe, the eurogroup’s president, to provide a “letter of 
comfort” to the ECB assuring it of euro member states’ backing if there are losses on the foreign exchange 
transactions. Another would be the provision of a guarantee to the ECB from the EU’s own budget. The ECB 
declined to comment.
At this stage, officials are still tussling over the technicalities of the problem. Bruno Le Maire, France’s finance 
minister, vowed to work “swiftly” with EU institutions to tackle it. Politicians are well aware that every day that goes 
by without a solution compounds the pain experienced by the refugees flocking to the EU. At least  3mn people 
have now fled Ukraine. 
The arrival of 1.4mn Ukrainian refugees in Poland has inundated the country’s banks with requests to exchange 
hryvnia. (As a reminder, the Polish central bank has opened an emergency swap line allowing refugees to 
exchange their savings into zlotys).
“The problem of the exchange of hryvnia from the Ukrainian citizens fleeing war is more and more important,” the 
Polish central bank told the Financial Times, adding that it was “currently working with one Polish commercial bank 
on the solution to this problem and hope to launch a channel of exchange for Ukrainian citizens soon”.
Chart du jour: Russian contraction
Economists expect a combination of sanctions, high interest rates, soaring inflation, capital outflows, lower business 
investment and weak consumer confidence to drag Russia into a deep recession this year. Scope, the rating 
agency, forecast that the economy would shrink by more than 10 per cent this year, after it predicted growth of 2.7 
per cent in December. ( More here)
Shaming Ryanair
Ukraine’s ambassador to Ireland has accused low-cost carrier Ryanair of increasing the price for flights from Poland 
to Dublin, a route used by Ukrainian refugees fleeing the war, write Philip Georgiadis in London and Valentina 
Pop in Brussels.
“Ryanair raised the prices and it’s unfortunate, and I’m waiting for a meeting with the minister for transport of 
Ireland,” Larysa Gerasko told a parliamentary committee in Dublin yesterday.
Several Irish legislators expressed their anger and said that the carrier should not charge Ukrainian refugees at all. 
The possibility of organising chartered flights to Ireland was also discussed, with Gerasko saying that she would be 
very grateful if that could be arranged “because it is very difficult to buy tickets from Warsaw or from Krakow to 
Dublin”.
She said she had written a protest letter to Ryanair a week ago but had yet to receive a reply.
EU wrangles over spiralling energy prices
By Wednesday afternoon, the next available seat on a Ryanair flight between Krakow and Dublin was on March 23 
and priced at £180, which was higher than the normal £20 to £75, according to data from Google Flights. Trips in 
the following days were cheaper and fell to as low as £24 later in the month. 
Similarly, the next free flight from Warsaw to Dublin is on March 24 and is priced at £146. 
Ryanair did not respond to a request for comment, but Michael O’Leary, its chief executive, had previously 
pledged to “keep our airfares low” on routes from Poland following a “surge” in demand for flights. 
What to watch today 
•
Volodymyr Zelensky, Ukraine’s president, speaks to the German Bundestag by video link
•
EU environment ministers gather in Brussels 
•
EU agriculture commissioner speaks in the European parliament about the impact of the war on food 
prices
Notable, Quotable 
•
US support: Following an address by Ukraine’s president to the US Congress yesterday, Joe Biden, US 
president,  approved the delivery of new weapons systems, including drones and anti-aircraft systems. 
When asked about Vladimir Putin, Biden for the first time labelled him a war criminal.
•
Looming default: Russia  said yesterday that it had sent interest payments due on its dollar bonds for 
processing but that it could not guarantee that investors would receive the cash, leaving the country on the 
brink of its first debt default since 1998. 
•
Italian exposure: Intesa Sanpaolo, Italy’s largest lender,  said yesterday that it had €200mn of exposure to 
Russian counterparties included in the list of individuals placed under sanctions by western governments. 
Loans to Russian customers amounted to €5.1bn, or 1 per cent of the group’s total, the bank said.
•
No digital renminbi: China’s recently-launched digital renminbi is so far  proving not to be a haven for 
Russian individuals and companies hit by sanctions. While Beijing has complained about the western 
sanctions, it has largely abided by them, with its companies and banks avoiding business with affected 
Russian companies.
Load-Date: March 18, 2022
End of Document
Russian invasion and soaring fuel prices shake airline industry
Russian invasion and soaring fuel prices shake airline industry
 
FT.com
March 9, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1014 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London and Steff Chávez in Chicago
Body
After surviving the chaos of the pandemic, the world’s biggest airlines are facing a new crisis before the last one is 
even over. 
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has sent the  price of oil rocketing to a 14-year high and set off a sequence of 
unprecedented flight bans around the world.
Investors have taken fright and sent airline shares tumbling, leaving the industry at the mercy of a global crisis for a 
second time in as many years. 
“We have dealt with the pestilence, only to be visited with a war,” said Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary. “I 
think it’s going to be  very difficult for most airlines for the next 12 months.”
Airlines are used to dealing with geopolitical shocks and executives and analysts think demand for flying is strong 
enough to help passenger numbers recover from Covid-19.  
But Russia’s invasion of Ukraine comes at a critical time as it  threatens to hit demand for flying, testing the fragile 
balance sheets of the carriers and delaying the return to profits after the industry racked up an estimated £200bn of 
pandemic losses.
Lufthansa’s chief executive Carsten Spohr said the company faced “another challenge” from the “unimaginable 
events” as the airline last week warned over the uncertainty stemming from the conflict. 
Russian invasion and soaring fuel prices shake airline industry
“We’re looking at a delay or somewhat of an interim setback in the airline path to financial recovery,” said Philip 
Baggaley, a managing director at S&P Global.
The immediate financial problem is the soaring price of crude oil, which has risen as high as $139 per barrel, at a 
time of broader inflationary pressures. 
Fuel can represent up to 35 per cent of airline operating costs, according to Scope Ratings and several carriers in 
Europe changed their hedging policies after being stung by a collapse in the price of oil and demand for flying in 
2020. 
Low-cost carrier Wizz Air stopped hedging completely, leaving it exposed as it ramps up its schedules this year. Its 
stock has fallen nearly 50 per cent since mid-February to its lowest level in 18 months.
The airline on Monday reversed course and announced it had entered into fuel hedges for the next four months. 
Ryanair is nearly fully hedged this year at $65 per barrel, while British Airways owner IAG has hedges in place at 
between $60 and $73 per barrel for the next 18 months, according to analysts at Raymond James.
In the US, many airlines that were hedging pulled back over the past five years because “the industry has become 
consolidated enough that the airlines have more pricing power”, said Baggaley.
Only Southwest Airlines and Alaska Airlines hedge fuel, giving them more of a cushion than the country’s three 
biggest carriers, American Airlines, United Airlines, and Delta Air Lines. Southwest is 64 per cent hedged and 
Alaska has hedged up to half of their estimated fuel consumption for 2022, the airlines said.
High fuel costs do not always crimp airline profits. Steve Gunning, chief financial officer of IAG, noted that the 
company managed to hit operating profit margins of 14.4 per cent when the oil price was last at $100 per barrel.
But analysts question whether airlines will be able to pass the costs on to customers at a time of fragile demand 
outside of peak periods. Higher household energy prices could also damage consumer confidence and spending 
power. 
Raising ticket costs in response to high oil prices will be insufficient for US airlines. They will have to cut capacity 
during off-peak periods, said Savanthi Syth, a managing director at Raymond James. With demand not fully back, 
“it is tougher to absorb these kind[s] of fuel shocks”, she said.
Another of the new problems are the  tit-for-tat flight bans. These have left Russian carrier Aeroflot barred from 
almost all of European and North American skies, while European airlines are no longer able to take northerly 
shortcuts across Russia to reach Asia, forcing them to burn more fuel. 
Investors  wiped out a fifth of Finnair’s market value last week after it warned its flights to Asia were unviable 
without crossing Russia, prompting them into talks with the government over financial assistance. 
“The situation has a considerable impact . . . Finnair is currently preparing new traffic and cost savings plans in 
case the situation prolongs,” chief executive Topi Manner said. The airline has since restarted some routes on 
longer flightpaths.
For many airlines the situation is tempered by the fact that routes to Asia have been the slowest to recover because 
of travel restrictions in the region. 
“The places we fly to over Russian airspace, we are not really serving at the minute, we are able to reroute our 
network,” British Airways boss Sean Doyle said last week. 
But beyond the short term, carriers face longer, more expensive trips to growing markets including China and India. 
And when markets do reopen, Gulf airlines could have a competitive advantage because of their southerly flight 
patterns.
Russian invasion and soaring fuel prices shake airline industry
Stephen Furlong, an analyst at Davy, said that more popular routes could also be hit with overcapacity if airlines 
shift resources from Asia. “A decade ago we had profit warnings on transatlantic flights when Asian markets were 
weak,” he said. 
The key to future health and perhaps the biggest unknown is what the war will do to consumer confidence and 
demand for flying. 
Lufthansa and Ryanair both reported a slowdown in ticket sales when the war broke out, although O’Leary hopes it 
is a temporary blip. 
“When conflict arises in the world, we see slower demand. But I cannot quantify that reduction yet,” Spohr said. 
Several industry figures recall the first Gulf war in 1990-91, when US tourist numbers to Europe fell because of the 
region’s relative proximity to the Middle East. 
In the latest crisis, domestic and short-haul focused airlines are likely to cope best, while long-haul airlines, which 
suffered the most during the pandemic, are more exposed. 
“It is not going to stop Brits going to Malaga this summer, I don’t think. But might Americans not want to go to Berlin, 
for example?” Furlong said.
Additional reporting from Joe Miller and Alexander Vladkov in Frankfurt
Load-Date: March 9, 2022
End of Document
Principle or pragmatism? Big brands quit Russia
Principle or pragmatism? Big brands quit Russia
 
FT.com
March 9, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1398 words
Byline: Darren Dodd
Body
Good evening,
McDonald's, Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, Starbucks, Unilever: the list of  consumer brands quitting Russia has gathered 
pace over the past few days, joining what one Yale professor has dubbed “the business blockade” of Russian 
president Vladimir Putin’s regime.
The departure of names such as McDonald's and Levis are loaded with historical meaning. The sight of crowds 
queueing for Big Macs in Moscow was seen as a marker of the end of the Soviet Union, while  Levi’s 501 jeans had 
become a symbol of dissent behind the Iron Curtain. 
There have been a few notable exceptions, such as Danone chief  Antoine de Saint-Affrique, who defended its 
decision to stay in Russia, arguing that it had a “responsibility to the people we feed, the farmers who provide us 
with milk, and the tens of thousands of people who depend on us”.
It’s not just consumer brands.  Shell said yesterday it would withdraw completely and halt new purchases of 
Russian oil. France’s Total is under pressure to follow suit.
Russian companies are starting to feel the heat, especially in financial services. The international ambitions of 
state-backed institutions VTB and Sberbank have been hobbled by  sanctions, but at home — where the two 
lenders account for nearly half of the banking market — they are being hit even harder. JPMorgan Chase has 
joined MSCI, S&P Dow Jones and FTSE Russell in  removing Russian debt from their bond indices.
Principle or pragmatism? Big brands quit Russia
On the other side of the economic war, European companies — especially those in  energy-intensive sectors such 
as metals — are bracing for some serious fallout.
For carmakers, which are already facing high input costs and supply chain problems, the rise in energy bills — their 
highest costs after labour and raw materials — is another blow to their competitiveness. 
 Airlines, the most  oil-intensive sector of all, now have to contend with a second serious crisis in under two years as 
the price of fuel rockets and flight maps have to be redrawn. “We have dealt with the pestilence, only to be visited 
with a war,” said Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary.
Fertiliser and chemical companies are also badly affected. Norway’s Yara has warned of a food crisis. Russia is a 
key source of materials for the fertilisers that power global agriculture. Petrochemical companies are also likely to 
suffer from the soaring price of naphtha, which is made from crude oil and used to create resins and plastics. 
Almost half of Europe’s naphtha imports come from Russia.
European banks with a large exposure to Russia such as Italy’s  UniCredit, France’s Société Générale and 
Austria’s Raiffeisen Bank are also likely to be hit. UniCredit said an “extreme scenario” whereby its entire Russian 
business is wiped out, would leave it with losses of €7bn.
But back to that company exodus. Despite the McFlurry of big names heading for the exit, many others have yet to 
take a position, reports our  Moral Money newsletter.
In any case, argues senior trade writer Alan Beattie, many of those leaving are driven more by the threat of  
damage from sanctions than their virtue-signalling might suggest. He points out that many are happy to do business 
with other autocracies that do some pretty vile things. 
“Jumping from Russia before you are pushed is self-interest: it is not an act of principle,” he says.
Latest news
•
EU adds 14 more Russian business chiefs and 146 lawmakers to its  sanctions list
•
UAE to  encourage fellow Opec members to boost oil production
•
Boris Johnson  opens door to UK fracking in response to Ukraine war
For up-to-the-minute news updates, visit our  live blog
Need to know: the economy
The US and UK decision to ban Russian oil imports has opened up a new front in the  economic war against 
Vladimir Putin — here’s our  explainer on what it means for global energy markets. Our Big Read examines whether  
coal could be the big winner as Europe scrambles to find alternatives. Calls are also growing for  more fracking. 
Meanwhile, British consumers are being asked to cut their energy use by turning down the heating and  driving 
more slowly.
The threat to the economic recovery is the uncomfortable backdrop to tomorrow’s  policy meeting of the European 
Central Bank. However, European stocks were lifted by hopes that new  EU stimulus could be on the way. The 
seriousness of the situation was underlined by economics editor Chris Giles, who compares the Russian oil shock 
with those of the 1970s and examines its potential to result in  stagflation — the toxic combination of slow growth 
and high inflation. 
UK and Europe latest
Ahead of his March 23 spring statement and as the economic fallout from Ukraine starts to worsen the cost of living 
crisis, UK chancellor Rishi Sunak is under mounting pressure to  cut taxes. Consumer spending strengthened in 
February as offices reopened and  social life resumed, according to payments company Barclaycard, backed up by 
Principle or pragmatism? Big brands quit Russia
similar findings from the British Retail Consortium. However, the cost of living is moving up consumers’ list of 
concerns.
UK MPs fast-tracked a new economic crimes bill, but foreign secretary Liz Truss admitted that the country had 
been “slower” than the EU and US to impose  sanctions on Russian oligarchs. British taxpayers could be on the 
hook for  £50mn in loan guarantees to several of them.
Global latest
Decades of work by China to globalise its currency by increasing its use in  international finance is bearing fruit as 
investors cast around for new haven assets amid the current turmoil. The renminbi, the currency of Russia’s closest 
strategic ally and top trading partner, has remained conspicuously stable throughout the crisis. Still, the Lex column 
is sceptical that Beijing can provide financial infrastructure such as  card payments to help Moscow get around 
sanctions.
Need to know: business
The global nickel market, which was already surging because of the Ukraine conflict, came to a halt today after 
soaring prices prompted China’s leading commodities exchange to  freeze trading in some of its most active 
contracts. Russia is the world’s third-biggest nickel supplier with 13 per cent of global capacity.
Cathay Pacific’s chief executive said the airline expected to  burn up to HK$1.5bn ($192mn) a month as a result of 
Hong Kong’s strict pandemic restrictions, as it reported a net loss of HK$5.5bn for 2021. Meanwhile, local residents 
are  stuck in limbo waiting for authorities to act as Covid cases soar, reports deputy Asia news editor Ravi Mattu 
from our bureau in the city.
Losses at UK furniture retailer Made.com more than doubled to £31.4mn as supply chain pressures and rising  
shipping costs started to bite. The furniture sector has been particularly badly hit by freight pressures as many of its 
big, bulky items, or their raw materials, are sourced from China and elsewhere in Asia.
The World of Work
The experience of lockdown and working from home has spurred many people to switch jobs, but what are the 
pitfalls? Work and careers columnist Lucy Kellaway has  four big lessons for getting the most out of a career 
change.
Working women, who already have the lion’s share of domestic burdens, were disproportionately affected by the 
coronavirus crisis, commonly shouldering extra childcare and teaching responsibilities as schools were shuttered — 
all to the  detriment of their careers. “As the world emerges from the pandemic, now is the time to ensure that the 
cost of care shows up somewhere other than in women’s wealth,” the FT Editorial Board says.
“The pandemic has hit the female talent leadership pipeline hard,” writes Eleanor Mills, founder of a platform for 
women in mid-life. Companies need to do more to support women through “  pinch-points”, such as divorce, extra 
caring responsibilities and the experience of menopause, if they are going to reap the benefits of their hard-won 
wisdom, she argues.
Menopause is also the subject of the latest  Working It podcast. Isabel Berwick and guests discuss a pioneering 
policy at Channel 4, as well as the downsides that come with women being open about their health status.
Read our special report  Women in Business for more on how women’s working lives have been changed by the 
pandemic.
Get the latest worldwide picture with our  vaccine tracker
And finally . . . 
Principle or pragmatism? Big brands quit Russia
Has all that doomscrolling on your phone tipped you over the edge? Read how European tech correspondent 
Madhumita Murgia fared with her attempt at a  digital diet.
Load-Date: March 9, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair boss O’Leary warns of ‘very difficult’ period for airlines
Ryanair boss O’Leary warns of ‘very difficult’ period for airlines
 
FT.com
March 2, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 511 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary has warned that the travel industry faces a “very difficult” period but has insisted the 
long-term recovery of his airline remained on course despite Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.
The Irish carrier and its rivals have been forced to cancel and divert some flights because of airspace closures, 
while also facing surging fuel costs after the price of oil rose above $100 a barrel. 
“I think it’s going to be very difficult for most airlines for the next 12 months,” O’Leary said on Wednesday. 
Aviation consultancy IBA has forecast that the industry’s recovery from the pandemic will be delayed by at least two 
months after shares took a tumble. The MSCI index of European airline shares has lost nearly a fifth of its value 
over the past two weeks.
But O’Leary expects Ryanair to ride out the disruption. 
Bookings fell 20 per cent week on week on Thursday and Friday following the start of military action in Ukraine, but 
have since recovered and were down about 9 per cent by the start of this week, O’Leary said. 
“I think it will not have a dramatic impact on bookings, clearly if the war doesn’t escalate and spread elsewhere,” he 
added.
Ryanair has hedged 80 per cent of its expected fuel needs at $65 per barrel until March 2023, leaving it well 
protected from the sudden spike in prices and able to outcompete its rivals on ticket prices, O’Leary said. 
Ryanair boss O’Leary warns of ‘very difficult’ period for airlines
But the airline still expects to take a $50mn hit on fuel over the next 12 months.
“It is not a huge amount of money, but it certainly makes post-Covid recovery much more difficult,” he added. 
Ryanair and Hungarian rival Wizz Air have been forecast to emerge from the pandemic as long-term winners 
thanks to healthy balance sheets and ultra-low operational costs.
However, London-listed Wizz does not hedge fuel, leaving it badly exposed to oil price rises. 
“Wizz, who like to portray themselves as a competitor to Ryanair . . . are completely unhedged, which is a crazy 
place to be,” O’Leary said. 
Wizz moved to reassure investors on Wednesday and said it expected its operating loss for the year ending in 
March to be “materially consistent” with previous forecasts. 
Wizz will fly 7 per cent fewer flights in March than originally scheduled, but chief executive Jozsef Varadi said 
planes would be redeployed to other parts of its network.
“The commercial and commodity impact behind the geopolitical crisis was in part offset by the improving post-Covid 
trading environment,” the airline said. 
Ryanair will fly its biggest ever schedule from the UK this summer and O’Leary said he expected ticket prices during 
peak periods to rise because of higher fuel charges and greater demand for travel.
Ryanair would probably suffer losses around the middle of its forecast of between €250mn to €450mn for the year 
ending in March, he added. 
Ryanair flew to four airports in Ukraine before the war began. O’Leary said aircraft would be redirected to other 
parts of Europe “for the foreseeable future”.
“We do want to see Ukrainians succeed . . . as soon as we can return there we will,” he added.
Load-Date: March 7, 2022
End of Document
Russia /air travel: avoiding the unfriendly skies now a requirement
Russia/air travel: avoiding the unfriendly skies now a requirement
 
FT.com
February 25, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 320 words
Body
Europe’s airliners normally fill the map with criss-crossing flights. This week,  a gap opened over Ukraine following 
Russia’s invasion. On Friday,  Russia banned British airlines from its airspace, in response to UK restrictions on 
Russia’s Aeroflot. This brings more headaches for European airlines hopeful that travellers would fly their friendly 
skies this year.
Ukraine restrictions matter most to London-listed Wizz Air and, to a lesser extent, Ireland’s Ryanair. Both took a bet 
on expanding flights there. Wizz has upped its capacity flying there by two-thirds to more than 8 per cent of the total 
since 2019, says Bernstein’s Alex Irving. Indeed, four of its jets are reportedly grounded in Ukraine. 
These low-cost carriers were attracted by Ukraine’s growing middle class and young, mobile population — travelling 
for work in Poland and western Europe — and the relative shortage of competition.
For British Airways, part of  International Airlines Group, the issue is less about direct travel to either Ukraine or 
Russia. Those destinations do not loom large on BA’s radar. However, cutting off the airspace over Russia might do 
so, over time. In normal periods, BA has 7 per cent of its fleet on routes to Asia that are made shorter by flying over 
Russia. Flying a longer route could add an hour or more to flights.
But these are not normal times. Continuing outbreaks of the Covid-19 pandemic in Asia mean that BA’s Asia 
capacity has fallen to just 1 per cent. So far, only British airlines appear to have received a Russian airspace ban. 
One European airline at risk from a ban extension is Finnair. The latter’s business model emphasises connecting 
European short-haul travellers to Asia by flying over Russia.
Russia /air travel: avoiding the unfriendly skies now a requirement
Fears of protracted hostility may well reset a number of air routes over time, lifting fuel bills and possibly deterring 
some travellers. Airlines  appear to have banked from one crisis into another.
Load-Date: March 7, 2022
End of Document
Airlines steer clear of Ukraine and surrounding region
Airlines steer clear of Ukraine and surrounding region
 
FT.com
February 24, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 641 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London and Nastassia Astrasheuskaya in Moscow
Body
Airlines cancelled and rerouted flights to steer clear of Ukraine and the surrounding region on Thursday as urgent 
warnings from safety regulators left a growing swath of airspace in eastern Europe off limits. 
The outbreak of war and a spike in the price of oil to more than $100 per barrel sent shares in major European 
airlines tumbling and opened up new problems for an industry still recovering from the pandemic. 
Ukraine’s air traffic agency declared the country’s airspace closed “due to the high risk of aviation safety for civilian 
aviation”, while the EU Aviation Safety Agency warned of the danger of flying in Russia and Belarus within 100 
nautical miles of the Ukrainian border.
Airlines were also warned to “exercise caution” when flying over parts of airspace operated by Moscow and Rostov 
air traffic control in Russia “due to heightened military activity, which may include launches of mid-range missiles 
penetrating into controlled airspace”.
Airspace over Moldova and parts of Belarus were also closed by the respective national governments on Thursday, 
Reuters reported. 
Industry bosses held a crisis call with EU member states in the morning to discuss the Russian invasion, according 
to a person with knowledge of the discussion.
They were told that based on air traffic data from February 11, 610 aircraft per day could be hit by the airspace 
restrictions. The figure excludes direct flights to and from Ukraine.
Airlines steer clear of Ukraine and surrounding region
There was no discussion on the call of the impact that closing all of Russian airspace would have, indicating that 
the industry still considers it highly unlikely. Ukraine’s president has called on western leaders to “close” Russian 
airspace as part of a package of retaliatory measures. 
Airlines stocks experienced some of the biggest falls in the markets with Hungarian based Wizz Air’s shares 
tumbling 13.5 per cent, while British Airways owner IAG and easyJet slipped more than 8 per cent. 
Russian carrier Aeroflot fell 25 per cent, matching a broader collapse in Moscow equities. 
London listed Wizz and Irish low-cost rival Ryanair, two of the last major airlines still flying to Ukraine, both 
cancelled flights. 
Of the major European airlines Wizz is the most exposed to Ukraine, with 8 per cent of its July 2022 schedules 
planned to operate to or from a Ukrainian airport, according to calculations by analysts at Bernstein.
Wizz, which has aircraft parked on the ground in Kyiv, was preparing to evacuate all its Ukrainian based employees 
and their families, and its aircraft “at the earliest opportunity”, an executive said. 
The airspace closures could have “huge implications” for carriers flying east out of Europe, said Andrew Charlton, 
managing director of consultancy Aviation Advocacy.
“Diversion over Russia is possible but expensive, and it might be shut down at any time for political or safety 
reasons,” he said. 
One of the last civilian flights to enter Ukrainian airspace, an Israeli El Al flight between Tel Aviv and Toronto, turned 
around shortly after beginning to overfly Ukrainian territory in the early hours of Thursday morning, according to 
data from flight tracking website Flightradar24. The flight continued on a modified route over Europe.
Many major international airlines including Lufthansa and KLM had already unilaterally cancelled flights in the 
weeks leading up to the military action, meaning there was relatively limited operational disruption to European 
carriers on Thursday morning.
Airlines had also long avoided parts of eastern Ukraine following the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 in 2014. 
Elsewhere, some 200 flights were cancelled or delayed in Moscow airports, particularly to southern Russian cities, 
according to news agency Ria Novosti.  
Rosaviatsiya, the Russian aviation agency, ordered flights to 11 southern airports in Russia to stop until at least 
March 2.
Load-Date: March 7, 2022
End of Document
Airbus rebounds to record profits as it strikes upbeat note on recovery
Airbus rebounds to record profits as it strikes upbeat note on recovery
 
FT.com
February 17, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 705 words
Byline: Sylvia Pfeifer and Philip Georgiadis in London and Sarah White in Paris
Body
Airbus made record profits last year and restored its dividend, as the European aerospace group struck an 
optimistic note about prospects for a sustained rebound in the aviation industry.
The Toulouse-based company also raised its delivery forecast for the coming year, saying it expected to dispatch 
720 commercial aircraft, up from the 611 it handed over to customers in 2021.
Airbus’s bullish outlook came as Air France-KLM reported improved revenues and a lower-than-expected loss for 
2021, with fourth-quarter operating income above pre-pandemic levels as long-haul flights pick up again. 
Air France-KLM’s chief executive Ben Smith cited last summer’s surge in bookings as an example of the flood of 
demand for flights once travel restrictions are lifted.
“As soon as the market opened, Europe was amazing. We couldn’t put enough airplanes into Greece. All of France 
wanted to go to Greece,” he told the Financial Times.
The bosses of Europe’s other major airlines have also expressed cautious optimism that the worst of the pandemic 
disruption is over, and expect to significantly ramp up flight schedules for the summer season.  
Sean Doyle, British Airways chief executive, said last month there was “room for optimism that we are on the way 
out” of the crisis, and airlines reported rising ticket sales as travel curbs were eased across parts of Europe.
Airbus rebounds to record profits as it strikes upbeat note on recovery
Still, short-term uncertainty over pricing and yields remains, and Ryanair has said “significant price stimulation” will 
be needed for air travel to recover before the peak summer season kicks in. 
Despite the manufacturer’s strong rebound, Airbus chief executive Guillaume Faury cautioned that the “pandemic is 
not yet behind us”. 
Company executives were still seeing tensions on “supply, logistics and labour”, Faury said on a news call, 
although he reiterated he expected the market to fully recover between 2023 and 2025. 
The company reported a record net profit of €4.2bn, driven by a rise in sales of commercial aircraft and higher 
earnings in its defence and helicopter divisions. The result was boosted by a series of adjustments, including halting 
its A380 superjumbo programme and a reversal of Covid-19 charges. 
As a result, Airbus said it would propose a dividend of €1.50 a share, its first payout to shareholders in two years. 
The last annual dividend of €1.65 was in 2019. 
The group’s adjusted operating profit, a figure tracked by analysts, soared to €4.86bn from €1.7bn a year earlier. 
Revenues rose 4 per cent to €52.1bn, mainly reflecting a higher number of commercial aircraft deliveries.
“2021 was a year of transition, where our attention shifted from navigating the pandemic towards recovery and 
growth,” Faury said.
“Record net income and our efforts to strengthen the net cash position underpin our proposal to reintroduce 
dividend payments going forward.”
The company said it was targeting adjusted operating profit of €5.5bn and free cash flow of €3.5bn before mergers 
and acquisitions for this year, about equal to 2021. 
Airbus also stuck to its targets to increase production of its single-aisle A320 family to 65 jets a month by the 
summer of 2023. 
The aircraft maker faces a difficult balancing act trying to rally suppliers that have been battered by the pandemic to 
increase production, while meeting recovering demand from customers.
A shortage of workers and materials such as computer chips have fuelled concerns over whether the supply chain 
is able to meet some of Airbus’s more aggressive plans for narrow-body production beyond 2023. The company 
previously said it was looking at scenarios of 70 jets a month by the first quarter of 2024 and 75 a month by 2025.
Faury said the company expected to take a decision on rates beyond 2023 by the middle of this year.
He also addressed a  bitter legal dispute in London’s High Court with Qatar Airways, one of its largest customers, 
over surface degradation to its A350 aircraft. 
Airbus, said Faury, did “not feel good about it” and would continue to try to “resolve the situation in an amicable 
way”. Nevertheless, he defended the company’s recent decision to unilaterally cancel a $6bn contract with Qatar 
Airways for A321neo aircraft, noting that “we need to take steps to protect ourselves”. 
Load-Date: March 7, 2022
End of Document
Just Eat Takeaway: rationalisation of listings should deliver cost savings
Just Eat Takeaway: rationalisation of listings should deliver cost savings
 
FT.com
February 8, 2022 Tuesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 342 words
Body
London, Amsterdam, New York. Just Eat Takeaway’s shares, like its menus, have a cosmopolitan flavour. But the 
meal delivery group now plans to delist its shares from the Nasdaq stock exchange. As many other companies 
have discovered, the costs of trading on multiple venues can outweigh the benefits.
The most important motivation for local listings is to provide foreign companies with acquisition currency. So it was 
with Just Eat Takeaway. Formed by the 2020 merger between Dutch company Takeaway.com and London-listed 
Just Eat, that was followed by last year’s $7.3bn all-share acquisition of US-based Grubhub. The latter’s 
shareholders received 30 per cent of total share capital held via American depositary receipts on Nasdaq. 
The ADRs’ share, however, has now dwindled to 3.7 per cent. US shareholders do remain, such as Connecticut-
based Cat Rock Capital Management, which has a 5 per cent stake. The activist investor is piling pressure on the 
group, whose market value has more than halved over the past year, to offload its US business. 
But US investors have shown a preference for holding ordinary shares over ADRs. While ADRs handily help 
shareholders avoid foreign currency and other hassles, they suffer from thin trading volumes and specific service 
fees.
Extra costs and compliance burden for multiple listings are bad enough. Politics plays a part too. Tensions between 
Beijing and Washington has forced a retreat of Chinese companies from Wall Street. Brexit caused Europe’s largest 
budget airline Ryanair to ditch its London listing to comply with EU ownership rules. 
Just Eat Takeaway has not yet decided on its final address, after having second thoughts on its original plan to use 
London as its primary trading venue. It would risk losing investors with UK-only mandates by dropping the listing. 
Just Eat Takeaway: rationalisation of listings should deliver cost savings
But UK investment managers now put just 14 per cent of the funds they manage in UK equities, down from 39 per 
cent in 2020,  according to The Investment Association. The erosion of home bias is limiting the benefits of 
secondary listings.
Load-Date: March 11, 2022
End of Document
Ukraine : EU wrestles with how to inflict sanctions ‘pain’ on Russia
Ukraine: EU wrestles with how to inflict sanctions ‘pain’ on Russia
 
FT.com
February 7, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 2462 words
Byline: Sam Fleming and Henry Foy in Brussels and James Shotter in Warsaw
Body
After Belarus sent a fighter jet to intercept a Ryanair flight carrying a young dissident, who was later arrested and 
detained, the EU hit back with sanctions designed to inflict a “substantial cost” on anyone who supported Alexander 
Lukashenko’s dictatorial regime.
But there was a catch. It turned out that the sanctions imposed in 2021 on the lucrative petrochemicals and potash 
industries in Belarus applied only to new contracts, meaning that their impact would be gradual. And the penalties 
placed on potash came with specifications that excluded around 80 per cent of the commodity exported by the east 
European nation.
The Belarusian opposition leader,  Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, warns of “regrettable” omissions in the package, 
which also included measures against the finance sector, and is demanding that new targets be added. “We should 
not underestimate the regime’s ability to minimise the full impact of the EU’s sanctions,” she says. 
Her complaints carry particular resonance as Europe discusses with the US creating what they have billed as one 
of the hardest-hitting sanctions packages the west has ever deployed, this time against Russia. 
The western allies are seeking tougher penalties than those imposed after Moscow’s invasion of Crimea in 2014, 
hoping the threat of draconian measures will deter President Vladimir Putin from invading Ukraine after massing 
more than 100,000 troops at its border. 
Ukraine : EU wrestles with how to inflict sanctions ‘pain’ on Russia
But Moscow knows the EU faces formidable hurdles when it comes to applying sanctions. For a start, it needs 
unanimity among the 27 member states — many of which have deep economic ties to Russia. Its capitals are also 
accused by diplomats and lawyers of having a patchy record when it comes to speedily enforcing sanctions 
programmes. 
EU officials say they are optimistic that European capitals are ready to swallow the economic pain that would come 
with sanctions on the Russian financial sector as well as parts of its energy and high-tech industries. “We all hope 
that diplomacy will succeed,” Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president, told the Financial Times 
on Friday, “but we also know that when it’s time to use this robust package we are ready.” 
The ultimate test will only come when leaders convene for an emergency EU summit should Russia attack Ukraine. 
“It is vital that the west maintains its unity in the face of this threat from Russia — and that means we have to have 
the EU fully on board,” says Edward Fishman, an adjunct fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a 
state department official during the Obama administration. “Right now all the signals from US and European leaders 
point to a remarkable degree of consensus on the sanctions effort. It’s crucial that this is maintained.”
Critics say the Belarus sanctions embody many of the frailties and limitations of the EU’s framework. The measures 
against the Lukashenko regime fell short of some officials’ ambitions because of carve-outs requested by EU 
countries seeking protection for some of their own companies trading with Belarus, and because of the time taken 
to implement and then enforce the measures.
The sanctions on Belarus’s petrochemicals, potash and financial sectors — the first with any teeth — were agreed 
almost a year after Lukashenko began his brutal crackdown on his country’s opposition in August 2020. Analysts 
say the early impact on Belarus’s potash export volumes was limited, while prices soared — giving the country’s 
state-controlled potash groups an unexpected shot in the arm. 
“Ultimately sanctions are only a tool towards something, and the moment has passed [in Belarus],” says Maria 
Shagina, visiting fellow at the Finnish Institute of International Affairs. “The time [window] when you can apply 
pressure and translate it into something is quite narrow.”
The ‘lowest common denominator’ 
The EU has streamlined its sanctions machine in recent years. But all 27 member states must still unanimously 
agree on sanctions before they can be imposed. It is a very different system from the US where, in the words of 
Brian O’Toole of the Atlantic Council, action is taken by “three agencies that work for one president”.
The drawn-out bureaucratic process gives greater scope for member states to demand carve-outs to protect their 
own industries, complained one official involved in the Belarus process.
“It is not easy for the commission when they have member states looking over their shoulder as they draw up 
sanctions, saying: ‘No, you’re overstepping your competences here’ or ‘we need a loophole there’,” says an EU 
official. “It slows it down and weakens the result. The outcome is not the highest common denominator but the 
lowest in terms of what member states can stomach.” 
The commission defends the multiple rounds of Belarus sanctions — which targeted people, entities, sectors of the 
economy and financial services — insisting they are designed to be “progressive”, meaning they can be scaled up 
or down depending on Minsk’s behaviour. 
But there are similar questions over the effectiveness of the 2014 sanctions on Russia. The US and EU were 
wrongfooted by Putin’s actions, leading to a reactive response and fractious internal discussions as they ratcheted 
up their measures. The toughest steps were only enacted after the shooting down of  Malaysia Airlines MH17 over 
Ukraine by a Russian missile in July 2014.
The penalties included restrictions on companies and individuals with close ties to the Russian government, as well 
as measures related to the defence, energy and finance sectors. They failed to force Russia out of Crimea or to 
Ukraine : EU wrestles with how to inflict sanctions ‘pain’ on Russia
stifle Putin’s military ambitions in his neighbour — although some western diplomats believe the measures 
dissuaded Putin from further escalation in  Ukraine’s Donbas region which was seized by Russian-backed 
separatists in 2014. 
Differences between the US and EU sanctions regimes undermined their effectiveness. French energy company 
Total, for example, was able to continue partial ownership and funding of the construction of two major gas projects 
in Russia’s arctic owned by Novatek, even as US banks pulled their support. While ExxonMobil withdrew from joint 
venture deals with Kremlin-controlled oil company Rosneft, Italy’s Eni stood by its operating project until 2018. 
Overall the sanctions meant Russia’s annual growth from 2014 to 2018 fell short of prior expectations by 0.2 per 
cent, according to an  IMF report in 2019, meaning they had a much smaller impact than, for instance, the decline in 
the oil price during the same period. 
Diplomats warn that Europe’s regime suffers further from uneven enforcement. The US relies on a single powerful 
body — the Office of Foreign Assets Control — which has wide latitude to enforce sanctions and track their effect. 
In Europe enforcement is handled at a national level, and officials say its effectiveness varies dramatically between 
member states. Tom Keatinge of the Royal United Services Institute think-tank, argues that once sanctions are 
agreed at the EU level, there is sometimes the impression that “everyone has flopped over the finishing line and 
said ‘thank God, we can go off and think about something else’.”
Restoring brittle EU-US relations 
The commission tacitly accepted the need for improvement 12 months ago, when it put out a communication 
proposing a more “robust and rapid implementation and enforcement” of the union’s sanctions, including reforms to 
bolster information sharing between capitals. 
Yet radical change, such as the creation of an EU agency to take sanctions enforcement powers from national 
governments, remains unlikely. “Which country is going to give up more sovereignty in terms of things that can hurt 
their economy, and tell their voters that Europe now makes these decisions?” asks a senior EU official. 
The crucial difference between the current planning and 2014, EU officials say, is that the detailed work between 
allies is being done early and proactively, in the hope it will deter Putin from taking hostile action. 
Intensive discussions between the US and EU over Russian sanctions have now been under way for three months. 
They follow a period of brittle relations in the wake of America’s  chaotic military withdrawal from Afghanistan, which 
European officials criticised as ill-co-ordinated, and the White House’s  nuclear submarine agreement with the UK 
and Australia, which excluded France and triggered a diplomatic spat with Paris. 
Policymakers on both sides of the Atlantic stress the goal is not to alight on exactly the same sanctions against 
Russia, but to forge a co-ordinated approach, in contrast to the chaotic events of the Trump administration, which 
imposed sanctions on aluminium giant Rusal in 2018 without consulting allies. 
Officials say the unusual volume of intelligence and public briefings by the US on the Russian build-up helped heap 
pressure on reluctant EU governments to back sanctions. Adding to that pressure is the awareness that China is 
closely watching the planning, they say, as it gauges western powers’ ability to rally in the face of a shared security 
threat. 
Victoria Nuland, the US under-secretary of state for political affairs, told the FT in January that a key goal in 
discussions was to find ways to fairly share the economic burden of the sanctions between European countries.
“We always say that our goal needs to be to hurt Russia more than we hurt ourselves if we have to go in this 
direction,” she said, stressing that the EU and US packages didn’t necessarily have to be “identical” but did have to 
be “equally painful”. 
Ukraine : EU wrestles with how to inflict sanctions ‘pain’ on Russia
The package taking shape will cover energy, banking, high-tech companies and oligarchs with close links to Putin. 
Critically, western capitals are more willing to inflict pain on the Russian banking system than in 2014, when 
measures against the big state-owned banks were relatively restrained. Sanctions on Russia’s biggest financial 
institutions, including Sberbank, VTB, Gazprombank, Alfa-Bank, and The Russian Direct Investment Fund are all 
under consideration, say diplomats. 
In addition, the allies are willing to hit gas producers, as well as oil companies — despite anxiety over Europe’s 
reliance on Russian gas. That means the  controversial Nord Stream 2 pipeline through the Baltic Sea “cannot be 
removed from the table” as far as sanctions are concerned, von der Leyen has previously said. 
US and EU officials are also seeking to finalise measures preventing exports to Russia of an unprecedented range 
of key technologies produced by western companies, mirroring steps taken by Washington to prevent Chinese 
telecoms company Huawei from using US-made components. 
One EU diplomat says disagreements remain over the detailed scope of all the products and companies to be 
targeted. But the EU’s participation in this part of the package is seen as particularly critical given the scale of its 
exports to Russia, which totalled nearly €80bn in 2020. 
The aim is to hold back high-tech components that Russia cannot easily replace by turning to suppliers in other 
parts of the world, in areas ranging from artificial intelligence to quantum computers and lasers, degrading Russia’s 
ability to diversify its fossil-fuel-reliant economy. 
The overall proposals “look to be a dramatic broadening and strengthening of the [2014] measures,” says Erica 
Moret, a sanctions specialist at the Graduate Institute, Geneva. 
In Washington, Europe’s emerging willingness to hit Putin hard is seen as the result of destabilising actions they 
blame on Moscow which have multiplied in the past decade. 
These range from election interference and cyber attacks to the Skripal poisoning in the UK and the  presence of 
Russian mercenaries in Mali. US officials say they believe an invasion of Ukraine would be a bridge too far for 
Europeans to tolerate in terms of the continent’s security.
The Europeans are weighing the cost of imposing sanctions “against the counterfactual of an invasion in the heart 
of Europe, and . . . the impact it would have to their business environment and their economic conditions,” says a 
Biden administration official.
A ‘clear understanding’ of the Russia threat 
Von der Leyen says she now sees a “growing sense of unity” among the 27 member states as they observe 
Russian actions, including “the massive military build-up around Ukraine and in Belarus, the continued cyber 
attacks and the disinformation campaigns to prepare the ground.
“Many were caught by surprise in 2014,” she adds, “but this time we have a clear understanding of the magnitude of 
what Russia could do.” 
Björn Seibert, her head of cabinet, has been holding what diplomats describe as “confessional” meetings with small 
groups of EU ambassadors to understand their pain thresholds with regard to the options on the table.
The goal within the commission is to have a detailed set of sanctions ready, which could be upgraded or 
downgraded depending on the gravity of any Russian incursion. These would be signed off in an emergency 
summit of EU leaders if they decide action is needed, all in close co-ordination with the US, UK and other allies. 
Diplomats insist that being too prescriptive in advance about the triggers needed for penalties to be imposed risks 
backfiring. “You wouldn’t want to define thresholds in advance, because then Russia can seek to stay below them,” 
says one. 
Ukraine : EU wrestles with how to inflict sanctions ‘pain’ on Russia
The risk remains, however, that unity between the 27 member states falters in the face of hostile or covert acts by 
Putin that fall short of an outright invasion but still have the effect of further destabilising Ukraine. 
A number of member states — among them Italy and Austria — have deep business links with Moscow, while  
Germany is hugely exposed to disruptions in the energy markets given it draws more than half of its gas imports 
from Russia. 
Viktor Orban, the Hungarian prime minister, last week criticised the mooted measures on a trip to Moscow, saying 
they were “doomed to failure” — although officials remain hopeful that he will fall into line. 
Some experts argue that the power and extraterritorial reach of US sanctions are so massive that any weaknesses 
in the EU response should not be debilitating when it comes to applying pressure on Putin. 
If Russian banks are subjected to tough new sanctions by the US, for example, western financial institutions will 
steer well clear of them for fear of falling foul of the US authorities. But O’Toole of the Atlantic Council insists that 
having the EU fully on board will be critical to closing all loopholes and depriving Putin of any room for manoeuvre. 
“Let’s be clear — sanctions only work as long as everybody plays ball,” says a senior EU official. “That is the bottom 
line.”
Additional reporting by Emiko Terazono in London and James Politi in Washington
Load-Date: March 11, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair : near-term uncertainty remains
Ryanair: near-term uncertainty remains
 
FT.com
January 31, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 359 words
Body
It turns out, no matter what the ads say, Ryanair’s fares are not low enough. The discount airline has warned of an 
annual net loss of between €250m and €450m as it struggles to get customers on board. 
That range,  reiterated on Monday just two months before the fiscal year closes, is wide enough to fly a wide-bodied 
jet through. It highlights the travails of an industry that is forecast  to lose an aggregate $11.6bn this year.
While political mood music over Covid has turned upbeat in most western nations, curbs remain on European 
travel. Would-be tourists, wary of planning trips in the next couple of months, wait to be seduced into last-minute 
trips by low fares. And these are legion: this Wednesday you can  fly from London to Venice for less than a tube 
ticket from the City to Wimbledon. 
More fare slashing will follow. Ryanair’s third-quarter numbers already bear the scars. Average customer fares at 
€25 dropped by a quarter, compared with the same three months pre-Covid. Despite this, the load factor wallows at 
84 per cent, down from pre-pandemic levels of 95-96 per cent.
Any nervous fog should soon lift. Reservations at the main low-cost carriers reveal passengers are booking trips for 
Easter and the summer. Ryanair offers investors important comforts. Its balance sheet is far from clear — there is 
net debt of €2.1bn which it wants to erase over the next two years. But its B737 fleet is 90 per cent unencumbered.
Investors pay for that relative safety, and cost control. Ryanair — measured on an enterprise value-to-estimated 
2023 ebitda — flies higher than budget London-listed peers Wizz, easyJet and Jet2. Average cost per passenger, 
ex fuel, dropped to €32 in the last period compared with €33 in the same period pre-Covid. Ryanair now boasts 41 
Ryanair : near-term uncertainty remains
Boeing 737 planes and reckons on having about 65 come summer. These burn 16 per cent less fuel, which Ryanair 
anyway hedges into next year.
As demonstrated by countless instances of war and pestilence, it operates in a sector in permanent thrall to 
external forces. Though rarely cheap, patient investors can expect Ryanair shares to offer safe exposure for when 
the weather clears. 
Load-Date: January 31, 2022
End of Document
Lossmaking Ryanair turns to discounts as Omicron dents bookings
Lossmaking Ryanair turns to discounts as Omicron dents bookings
 
FT.com
January 31, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 409 words
Byline: Harry Dempsey
Body
Ryanair said it would discount flights to stimulate demand, after the spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant 
dented bookings in the final three months of 2021.
The airline warned of “huge uncertainty” for pricing and yields through to the end of its financial year in March, 
adding that investors should expect further disruption to air travel.
“I wouldn’t rule out one more twist before we’re over the other side of this,” Neil Sorahan, Ryanair’s chief financial 
officer, told the Financial Times.
The low-cost airline reported a net loss of €96m, better than the €321m loss in the same quarter a year earlier. 
Revenues were €1.5bn from 31m passengers in its third quarter ending on December 31. 
The Irish carrier suffered a drop in bookings and cut January flying schedules after European governments 
reimposed tougher border restrictions at the end of last year in response to the rapid spread of the Omicron strain.
Ryanair echoed rivals Wizz Air and easyJet, which last week predicted a resurgence in bookings for summer 
holidays after a bleak winter.
“We have noticed an uptick in bookings in the last couple of weeks as the UK government has removed 
restrictions,” said Sorahan. “There remains a fair bit of policy uncertainty for the next couple of months as 
governments hopefully roll off travel restrictions.”
Lossmaking Ryanair turns to discounts as Omicron dents bookings
Following the “steep declines” in filled seats on flights, Ryanair said passengers were continuing to book at the last 
minute, and “significant price stimulation at lower prices” would be needed for air travel to recover.
Ryanair reaffirmed its expectations that it would fly just under 100m passengers this financial year. It stuck by full-
year financial guidance  issued in December, which forecast a net loss of €250m to €450m.
Ryanair has been expanding aggressively during the Covid-19 crisis, which has bankrupted rivals such as Flybe 
and Norwegian and pushed the likes of Alitalia and TAP to cut capacity.
The Irish airline plans to grow by more than 50 per cent over pre-Covid levels by its 2026 financial year.
It will launch 720 new routes in the year starting from April, as well as negotiate low airport costs and expand its 
fleet. It plans to add a further 24 of Boeing’s 737 Max planes before summer to the 41 already taken, helping to 
boost seating capacity by 14 per cent over the 2019 peak.
Sorahan argued that Ryanair’s cheap tickets meant the airline would be well positioned to attract customers hit by 
inflationary pressures.
Load-Date: January 31, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair warns of ‘hugely uncertain’ end to Omicron-disrupted year
Ryanair warns of ‘hugely uncertain’ end to Omicron-disrupted year
 
FT.com
January 31, 2022 Monday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 913 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Ryanair said it was having to cut prices on flights to boost demand after the emergence of the Omicron variant 
caused a last-minute collapse in bookings in the run-up to Christmas and the new year. 
With only two months to go until the end of its financial year, Ryanair warned the outlook for pricing and yields 
remained “hugely uncertain”. It said it could make a full-year loss of anything from €250m to €450m after cutting its 
guidance days before Christmas. 
Passengers currently required “significant price stimulation at lower prices” to fill planes, and the airline warned 
investors to expect further disruption from coronavirus rather than a smooth return to normal. 
Email us at 
Briefly
Estate agent Purplebricks swung to a loss in the six months to October after fee income fell by almost 30 per cent 
and the number of instructions dropped by close to 40 per cent. Purplebricks said that there continued to be a 
“significant imbalance” between the strong demand for housing and limited supply that has driven up prices. The 
supply squeeze has hit instructions and gross margins, while costs are rising as Purplebricks moves to a model 
where it fully employs its agents. 
Ryanair warns of ‘hugely uncertain’ end to Omicron-disrupted year
Magic circle law firm Freshfields handed out extra bonuses to its London-based private equity lawyers last year as 
UK firms  battle an exodus to US rivals. The payouts — on top of the firm-wide bonus scheme — amounted to 
about £50,000 for some mid-ranking lawyers, according to one person familiar with the matter. 
The activist Cevian is pushing for a  sweeping overhaul at Vodafone, with a portfolio restructure, strategy revamp 
in key markets and board refresh all on the laundry list. Cevian has built an undisclosed stake in the FTSE 100 
group and has been engaging with its board and management for months, our team report. Consolidation with 
mobile operators in markets including Spain, Italy and the UK is high on the agenda. Shares will be in focus today.
The private-equity owned group behind Cinch and WeBuyAnyCar has built a 19.9 per cent stake in car dealer 
Lookers. Constellation Automotive struck a deal to buy rival dealership Marshall Motor last month. 
Education publisher Pearson is buying up Credly, a provider of workplace digital credentials and certifications. 
Pearson is paying $140m for the 80 per cent it does not already own, plus another $20m due later. Credly had 
revenues of $13m last year, up almost 50 per cent on the year before. 
Week in the City
On the schedule for Tuesday is a first quarter update from challenger bank Virgin Money, which is likely to be 
rather more dry than  the interview boss David Duffy gave to The Sunday Times yesterday in which he showed off 
his three phones, two laptops and array of photo-friendly equipment. There’s also monthly house price data from 
Nationwide. 
Wednesday brings a third-quarter trading update from Vodafone which will come under far closer scrutiny than 
usual now the telecoms group is under attack (or at least pressure) from activist Cevian. Commodities giant 
Glencore publishes a production update ahead of full-year results in a fortnight’s time. FTSE 250 group Playtech 
meanwhile holds shareholder meetings to vote on the takeover offer from Aristocrat Leisure — a deal that may yet 
be blocked by a group of Asia-based investors. Tobacco group Imperial Brands holds its AGM and utility Severn 
Trent has a quarterly update. 
Another day, another update from a telecoms group with an unwelcome activist: on Thursday it’s BT (where Patrick 
Drahi’s vehicle is on the register). Shell publishes its fourth-quarter results, while the Bank of England monetary 
policy meeting will be the event of the week (markets are expecting the  first back-to-back rate rise since 2004). 
Media group Future has its AGM, where a backlash is expected over boss Zillah Byng-Thorne’s bonus for the  
second year in a row. 
On Friday, the only update of note is a trading statement from travel food retailer SSP: December will have been 
pretty bleak, so expect focus to be on the outlook now WFH guidance has gone instead.
Beyond the Square Mile
Software company Citrix is nearing a $13bn sale to Elliott and Vista Equity in what would be one of the  biggest 
tech buyouts on record, our US team report. The deal would cap a years-long tussle with activist Elliott, which 
began agitating for change after investing in 2015, and mark the first $10bn-plus buyout of the year following a 
slump for public tech stocks. 
China tech stocks recovered some of the losses made in two days of heavy selling, in an abridged session ahead 
of the lunar new year. The Hang Seng Tech index closed 2.4 per cent higher led by food delivery platform Meituan 
and ecommerce group JD.com, after the index posted  losses in all but one trading session last week. 
Shares in casino company Macau Legend fell as much as 30 per cent, however, after the company revealed its 
chief executive and controlling shareholder had been  detained by the City’s police. The company is the latest to be 
caught up in Chinese authorities’ crackdown against Macau’s dominant gambling sector and comes despite signals 
last week that the crackdown may be starting to ease, William Langley reports. 
Essential comment before you go
Ryanair warns of ‘hugely uncertain’ end to Omicron-disrupted year
Andrew Hill has a fascinating column this week on the  paradox that leads professionals into temptation. He 
reports how high-minded managers may be more prone to bias because they think they know how to ignore gift-
givers. A warning to all professionals out there. 
Load-Date: January 31, 2022
End of Document
BA boss pledges to rebuild its reputation for premium service
BA boss pledges to rebuild its reputation for premium service
 
FT.com
January 28, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 689 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
British Airways boss Sean Doyle pledged on Friday to  rebuild relations with customers and staff and restore the 
airline’s reputation for premium service as the industry recovers from the pandemic. 
Doyle, who spent the first 15 months in charge in near-permanent crisis management, unveiled his strategy to 
emerge from the pandemic and aviation’s worst crisis in an address to 30,000 staff via video link.
One of his priorities will be to restore the airline’s brand as a premium offering, which will give passengers a better 
service than its “no-frills” rivals such as Ryanair and easyJet, while keeping costs down.
“There is room for optimism that we are on the way out” of the pandemic, and that the airline needed to “redefine” 
its place in the airline world, including a heavy emphasis on service and the passenger experience. 
“Putting the premium proposition into the heart of what we do is going to be key,” he told the Financial Times at 
BA’s headquarters near Heathrow. “We want people to come off a British Airways flight and talk about it as if it’s 
something different.”
The strategy represents the Irish executive’s first move to stamp his mark on BA and indicates he will not focus on 
wholesale changes.
Instead, he will prioritise rebuilding the airline’s brand as a premium service in an effort to make it once again the 
main driver of profits for its Spanish parent International Airlines Group, IAG.
BA boss pledges to rebuild its reputation for premium service
But it is a challenge successive BA bosses struggled to meet because of conflicting pressures of trying to compete 
with low-cost carriers in economy class, while maintaining standards for business and first class passengers.
The challenge is arguably greater for Doyle than his predecessors as BA emerges from a pandemic that culminated 
in lay-offs criticised as “a national disgrace” by MPs. 
It was in effect the final act of a chaotic period that included IT failures, a data breach and its first pilots’ strike.
The boss of Qatar Airways, the largest shareholder of IAG, even joined in the criticism last year when he slammed 
the airline in an FT interview. 
Doyle took over as  BA boss in October 2020 from Alex Cruz, whose four-year tenure was marred by mishaps, but 
also included winning billions of pounds of much-needed investment from IAG to update a tired and increasingly 
uncompetitive business class product.
“It’s to the credit of the business that it carried on with those investments over the course of the pandemic because I 
think it realised in the long run that we needed to do that,” said Doyle, who was chief executive of Irish carrier Aer 
Lingus before rejoining BA, where he learnt his trade during 20 years in senior roles.
Cruz also took the heat for difficult decisions to significantly reduce the airline’s costs during the pandemic, 
including  sacking a third of the workforce and retiring older and more  inefficient jumbo jets.
Doyle said building strong relations with crew would be critical and that he would put  staff “back into the heart” of 
the company. 
One senior executive at a rival European airline noted that Doyle was in the fortunate position of taking over at a 
time when investments were coming through and the cost base had been reshaped. Doyle has added to that by 
launching a  new subsidiary with lower costs at Gatwick airport.
“Sean wasn’t hired to make fundamental changes,” said another executive with knowledge of the IAG hiring 
process, noting that Doyle’s vision to focus on service and a premium image was “a cost-effective way to stay 
relevant”.
He will also have to return BA to its normal position as the main provider of profits at IAG. BA haemorrhaged €3.9bn 
in 2020, more than half of IAG’s overall €7.4bn loss for the year.
“The profits are the oxygen for the business to do the things it wants to,” Doyle said.
The key question that could define his stewardship will be whether these light touches can help transform BA’s 
image following years of turbulence.
“Any airline can go out and buy products off the shelf and put them on a plane. It’s actually the confidence and the 
style and the intimacy that we deliver in service that is going to be a differentiator,” he said.
Load-Date: January 28, 2022
End of Document
Wizz Air predicts more losses before travel picks up for summer
Wizz Air predicts more losses before travel picks up for summer
 
FT.com
January 26, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 553 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Transport Correspondent
Body
Wizz Air, the low-cost airline, has forecast more losses during the winter because of the Omicron coronavirus 
variant — but the carrier expects a resurgence in passenger demand led by the UK later in the year.
The London-listed airline on Wednesday reported an operating loss of €213.6m for the final three months of 2021, 
when the emergence of the variant and travel restrictions derailed the aviation sector’s fragile recovery.
That figure was worse than the €141.9m lost in the same period in 2020 as Wizz burnt through cash to increase its 
workforce, fleet of aircraft and opened new bases.
But Jozsef Varadi, Wizz chief executive, remained upbeat as he forecast a rapid recovery in the summer season, 
when the airline would have the aircraft to carry 50 per cent more passengers than in 2019, enabling it to operate at 
“full-blown” capacity. 
His bullish outlook helped lift shares, which rose 4 per cent to £44.40 by early afternoon in London. 
The airline will have a 170-strong fleet of aircraft by the summer, following an ambitious expansion strategy that 
involved ordering new planes and opening bases as it expands its eastern European hubs to the wider regional 
market.
Earlier, the Budapest-based carrier said in its statement that operating losses would “slightly” widen in the present 
quarter, before demand for travel returned.
Wizz Air predicts more losses before travel picks up for summer
Low-cost rival Ryanair said before Christmas that its losses for 2021 could more than double after it slashed flight 
schedules in response to the spread of Omicron.
As an example of the potential for recovery, this week’s easing of UK travel restrictions had an “immediate effect” 
and led to a rise in bookings “the next minute”, Varadi said. 
He added that the airline had to discount ticket prices to encourage people to travel. He expects passenger demand 
to suffer in January, February and for the first part of March.
The airline’s board last year offered Varadi a £100m bonus if he could push up the airline’s share price as the 
industry recovered from the pandemic.
“The Wizz investment case has never relied on a strong fiscal third-quarter, particularly one where capacity is in 
recovery,” analysts at Davy said. 
“That said, another set of underwhelming financials shows that its high-capacity growth needs to be matched with 
strong in-market demand and its cost base needs full aircraft utilisation in order to generate positive economics.” 
Wizz bought a portfolio of slots from Norwegian Air Shuttle at Gatwick airport last month as part of a move into the 
UK. The airline has opened or expanded bases in Italy, Abu Dhabi and eastern Europe.
Wizz flew more passenger miles during the busiest parts of the Christmas season than in 2019, and employs more 
people than before the crisis.
In September the carrier made an unsuccessful takeover approach for UK-listed easyJet, a deal that would have 
immediately accomplished its push into western Europe.
Wizz had a strong balance sheet including liquidity of €1.4bn at the end of December, 16 per cent higher than a 
year ago, and carried 7.8m passengers in the last three months of 2021, up from 2.7m in the same period in 2020.
“We continue to back our strategic choices to invest in our fleet, grow our bases and routes, and lower our unit cost 
in order to take advantage of the market created in the wake of Covid-19,” Varadi said.
Load-Date: January 26, 2022
End of Document
US charges Belarusian officials with piracy over diverted Ryanair flight
US charges Belarusian officials with piracy over diverted Ryanair flight
 
FT.com
January 21, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 550 words
Byline: Stefania Palma in Washington
Body
US authorities have charged four Belarusian government officials with aircraft piracy for forcing a Ryanair flight 
bound for Lithuania to land in Minsk last year so that they could arrest a leading opposition activist.
The US Department of Justice on Thursday said the officials had conspired in May to use a fake bomb threat to  
divert Ryanair flight FR4978, which was carrying more than 100 passengers including dissident Roman 
Protasevich, his partner and four Americans.
The officials charged were Leonid Mikalaevich Churo, director-general of the Belarusian state air navigation 
authority; Oleg Kazyuchits, the agency’s deputy director-general; and two officers at the Belarusian state security 
services: Andrey Anatolievich, whose last name remains unknown, and a second unnamed individual. All are based 
in Belarus and remain at large, according to the justice department.
“Since the dawn of powered flight, countries around the world have co-operated to keep passenger aeroplanes 
safe,” said Damian Williams, US attorney for the southern district of New York, who was among the officials who 
announced the indictment. “The defendants shattered those standards by diverting an aeroplane to further the 
improper purpose of repressing dissent and free speech.”
The indictment refocuses attention on a controversy that sparked global uproar and led to  sanctions against 
Belarus, where strongman president Alexander Lukashenko has cracked down on independent journalists and 
opposition activists to maintain power.
US charges Belarusian officials with piracy over diverted Ryanair flight
US authorities alleged that Churo personally warned staff at the Minsk air traffic control centre of a  bomb threat 
before the flight took off from Athens, and instructed them to divert the aircraft to Minsk in response.
According to the justice department, Kazyuchits allegedly told air traffic authorities in Belarus to forge reports about 
the diversion to hide the fabrication of the bomb threat and the security services’ role in rerouting the flight.
According to a post on a semi-official presidential channel on messaging app Telegram around the time of the 
diversion, Lukashenko had given an “irrevocable command to turn the plane around and land it”.
Protasevich is the former editor of Nexta, a Warsaw-based media group that played a  prominent role in covering 
and directing the huge protests that erupted against Lukashenko in 2020 after the dictator claimed victory in what 
was widely viewed as an undemocratic election.
The justice department alleged that Belarusian officers — some of whom were wearing ski masks and holding 
firearms — met the plane’s passengers on the tarmac in Minsk and ordered them to board airport buses.
They were detained upon arriving at the terminal, with one group of passengers — including “Individual-2”, 
understood to be Protasevich’s partner — placed in a narrow hallway for about three hours, the justice department 
alleged. 
A person defined as “Individual-1” by US authorities and understood to be Protasevich, as well as his partner, were 
then allegedly escorted away and  detained. 
The aircraft piracy charge carries a mandatory minimum sentence of 20 years in prison and a maximum penalty of 
life in prison.
The Belarusian state air navigation authority and the country’s State Security Committee could not immediately be 
reached for comment.
Load-Date: January 21, 2022
End of Document
If air travel has lost its charm, that’s no bad thing
If air travel has lost its charm, that’s no bad thing
 
FT.com
January 14, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 636 words
Byline: Henry Mance
Body
In the film  Don’t Look Up, humans decide to ignore a terrifying scientific discovery: a comet is on course to destroy 
Earth. But give the idiots some credit. At least they don’t seek to accelerate the speed at which the comet is 
approaching.
That is roughly what the EU’s aviation policy is doing. Brussels wants airlines to keep flying planes even when there 
aren’t enough passengers to justify them. Lufthansa  says that it would like to cancel 18,000 flights in the next three 
months, but can’t do so without losing its valuable airport slots. These flights will hold fewer people than the 
average Downing Street work event. The thought of near-empty planes spurting out greenhouse gases should 
make our blood boil.
EU rules normally require airlines to operate 80 per cent of their allocated airport slots. It reduced that to 50 per cent 
during the pandemic, but that is still tripping up Lufthansa. 
Brussels’ intransigence is supported by low-cost airlines, who say that if Lufthansa can’t fill the planes, it should 
give them up. Ryanair chief Michael O’Leary, a man so disposed to publicity that he probably press released his 
own birth, accuses Lufthansa of “crying crocodile tears about the environment”.
O’Leary is on a list of people who I hope never to be in a fight with, alongside Tyson Fury, Dominic Cummings and 
whoever keeps on breaking into cars on our street. But the European Commission should ignore him.
If air travel has lost its charm, that’s no bad thing
If you want to spend £100 in the most polluting way possible, buy an airline ticket. That’s because the ticket price 
includes virtually none of the true cost: the UK subsidises flights by more than  £8bn a year, just by not charging 
VAT or fuel duty. This belies O’Leary’s call for fair competition. Governments should feel relieved that the pandemic 
has helped to wean people off flying.
In November, even before Omicron hit, international flights were down  47 per cent globally on 2019. Flying has lost 
some of its charm: the realisation that many flights are unnecessary, the hassle of Covid permits, the chance of 
being seated next to an unvaccinated tennis star. John Holland-Kaye, chief executive of Heathrow, an out-of-town 
shopping centre with an airport attached, admits that an end to Covid’s legacy is “likely to be years away”.
My business friends guess that a quarter of their work travel is never coming back. At Lufthansa, business travel 
makes up 30 per cent of passenger numbers and 45 per cent of revenues, analysts at Bernstein estimate. Maybe 
we could fill these slots with Ryanair holidays. Or perhaps we could act sanely and not force airlines to use their 
slots this year or next. If a climate emergency doesn’t mean accepting a lull in air travel and pausing airport 
expansion, what does it mean?
We could use the time to devise frequent flyer taxes: in England, the  10 per cent most frequent flyers take half of 
overseas flights. We could invest like hell in sustainable fuel. 
Ryanair’s sustainability plan relies on fuelling planes with waste cooking oil. Spoiler: the world does not eat enough 
chips for planes to run on used fat.  Synthetic alternatives to kerosene may do the job, as climate expert Chris 
Goodall points out, but they are currently small-scale.
Sure, aviation is only a fraction of our emissions. But the lack of urgency is pervasive. This week master stock 
picker Terry Smith unloaded on green pioneer Unilever,  saying its management was “obsessed with publicly 
displaying sustainability credentials at the expense of focusing on the fundamentals of the business”. 
Maybe Smith is right. Maybe when the comet hits we can console ourselves that at least management was focused 
on the fundamentals of the business. But could we give the alternative a chance? Could we look up, and not worry 
that the planes are half-empty in the name of the share price?
Load-Date: January 14, 2022
End of Document
Airline shares boosted by Omicron optimism
Airline shares boosted by Omicron optimism
 
FT.com
January 5, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 596 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Travel shares will be in focus again today after sharp rises in airline stocks yesterday. Shares in Wizz Air gained 
12 per cent, IAG 11 per cent and easyJet 9 per cent by the close of play in London on Tuesday as investors bet that 
Omicron would have a less severe impact on the industry than feared. 
Shares in the sector have been particularly susceptible to disruption. But a sharp rally since mid-December has 
lifted IAG and easyJet 25 per cent, travel correspondent  Philip Georgiadis reports. 
This morning Ryanair reported December traffic figures, a day after low-cost rival Wizz reported its data. Ryanair 
flew planes that were on average 81 per cent full in December, slightly lower than in October and November but in 
line with the July to September period. It flew 9.5m passengers in the month. To underline the extent of the 
recovery so far: in December 2020, it flew just 1.9m. 
Tell me what you think. Email us at 
Briefly
Rishi Sunak has bad news for consumers hit by high energy prices. The chancellor warned colleagues there was 
a limit to potential government support to offset the price rises, with support to be targeted at the UK households 
most in need. Our politics and energy team have more details on the options being considered  here.
Investors in gambling software group Playtech face another four-week wait as rival bidders circle the company. 
Playtech pushed back a meeting to vote on a 680p-a-share cash offer from Australian gaming group Aristocrat 
Airline shares boosted by Omicron optimism
Leisure while it discusses a potential rival deal with JKO Play, a company controlled by former F1 boss Eddie 
Jordan. The shareholder meeting was due to be held next week, but has been rescheduled to February 2. JKO 
originally faced a “put up or shut up” Takeover Panel deadline to declare its intentions of 5pm today, but Playtech 
and JKO have asked the Panel for an extension. 
The boss of the company behind discount retailer Poundland is to stand down for health reasons. Pepco Group, 
which listed on the Warsaw stock exchange in May last year, said chief executive Andy Bond plans to leave his role 
at the end of March. He will remain as an adviser to the board until the end of the company’s financial year. 
Beyond the Square Mile
Tencent’s move to sell more than $3bn of its shares in Sea, the New York-listed Singaporean gaming and 
ecommerce group, wiped more than 11 per cent off Sea’s shares on Tuesday. Tencent’s equity stake will fall from 
21.3 per cent to 18.7 per cent after the sale, Primrose Riordan  reports from Hong Kong. The sale comes less than 
a month after Tencent sold down its stake in Chinese ecommerce business JD.com. 
Sony is  launching a new company to “explore” entering the electric vehicle market. Shares in the Japanese group 
climbed 4.5 per cent after announcing the plans to open the subsidiary and unveiling an electric SUV prototype. 
Shares in bad debt manager China Huarong Asset Management fell more than 40 per cent after resuming trading 
following a nine month suspension,  William Langley reports from Hong Kong. The company suspended trading in 
March after delaying the release of its results, and disclosed record losses of $16bn in August before a state-
backed bailout of $6.6bn was unveiled in November. 
Essential comment before you go
Brooke Masters tackles the Theranos verdict in her column. “‘Fake it until you make it’ may work in Silicon Valley, 
but that slogan doesn’t fly in federal court,” she writes. “Holmes’ conviction is a timely warning that there is a crucial 
difference between rosy optimism and outright fraud.” Read the full column  here. 
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
Travel and leisure stocks surge as Omicron disruption fears fade
Travel and leisure stocks surge as Omicron disruption fears fade
 
FT.com
January 4, 2022 Tuesday
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 793 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Jim Pickard in London and Eric Platt in New York
Body
Travel stocks rose sharply on Tuesday amid confidence that the economic threat of the Omicron coronavirus 
variant was fading even as record numbers of new cases were reported in the UK, France, Italy and US. 
US cases in a single day were 1.08m, according to Johns Hopkins University, while the UK recorded almost 
219,000 cases, France hit close to 300,000 and Italy registered 170,000.
But with the virus causing fewer hospitalisations than previous waves, investors bought into companies most at risk 
from lockdowns and travel restrictions. The London-listed budget carrier Wizz Air gained 12 per cent, British 
Airways owner IAG rose 11 per cent and easyJet added 9 per cent by the close. 
German tour operator Tui rose 10 per cent, while Ryanair gained 8 per cent and other European airlines including 
Lufthansa and Air France added to gains made in the previous session on Monday.
UK prime minister Boris Johnson said there “was a chance to ride out this Omicron wave without shutting down our 
country once again. We can keep our schools and our businesses open, and we can find a way to live with this 
virus.”
The European Stoxx 600 travel and leisure index also rose more than 3 per cent on Tuesday to its highest level 
since late November before Omicron was declared a variant of concern by the World Health Organization.
“The global theme in markets is that we have reached peak Covid,” said Roger Lee, head of UK equity strategy at 
Investec. 
Travel and leisure stocks surge as Omicron disruption fears fade
Shares in big US airlines followed Europe higher as investors shrugged off thousands of flight cancellations caused 
by Covid-related staff absences and severe weather to focus on improved longer-term prospects.
The technology-focused Nasdaq Composite fell 1.6 per cent, as shares in companies typically viewed as 
beneficiaries of pandemic curbs declined. 
Chinese ecommerce group Pinduoduo fell more than a tenth, while  JD.com dropped 7 per cent, and Okta and 
Peloton traded more than 6 per cent lower. Zoom Video Communications slipped more than 5 per cent. The 
Nasdaq had climbed 1.2 per cent on Monday as Apple became the first company to reach a market capitalisation of 
$3tn.
The tech decline accompanied a second day of heavy selling in the $22tn US Treasury market, pushing yields on 
10- and 30-year government debt higher. But given inflation expectations remained relatively unchanged at the start 
of the year, investors and strategists said the moves reflected confidence in the economic recovery and the ability 
of central banks to tame rising prices.
Traders have welcomed early data that Omicron may cause less severe illness than previous coronavirus strains, 
while new findings added to evidence that current vaccines hold up against severe Covid-19 outcomes.
Airline and tourism shares have been particularly sensitive to disruption and are still trading well below pre-
pandemic levels, but they have recovered sharply since mid-December. IAG and easyJet have surged 25 per cent 
since then. 
“These stocks went seriously low back in December . . . so people are getting away from that extreme negativity,” 
said Alex Irving, an aviation analyst at Bernstein.
Germany added to the bullish sentiment on Tuesday, relaxing travel restrictions on the UK and several southern 
African nations. The UK’s own travel rules, which include expensive testing before and after flights, will be reviewed 
on Wednesday. 
Wizz Air reported strong December passenger numbers on Tuesday, and said it had managed to fly its aircraft 
more than three-quarters full despite Omicron travel restrictions.
Industry executives expected the UK government to abolish the requirement to take a pre-departure test before 
returning to the country as part of the review.
One government official said the pre-departure tests would “likely” be removed, given the rampant spread of the 
virus domestically. 
Grant Shapps, the UK transport secretary, wants to abolish the testing rules to help the aviation sector recover, 
according to people familiar with the matter.
As part of the push to unwind the testing rules, Manchester Airports Group has submitted new research to ministers 
that suggests the removal of all travel restrictions this month would have no impact on the variant’s spread.
The report by consultancy Oxera, seen by the Financial Times, also stated that the curbs imposed in November had 
“virtually no distinguishable effect” on Omicron case rates.
While winter travel across the globe has been badly affected by Omicron, no major airline has warned about a hit to 
next summer’s peak season. 
David Watson, head of travel and hospitality credit at payments company Ingenico, instead pointed to “encouraging 
signs” for the sector, including pent-up demand for travel translating into new bookings. 
Additional reporting by Naomi Rovnick
Travel and leisure stocks surge as Omicron disruption fears fade
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
UK insolvencies expected to rise in 2022
UK insolvencies expected to rise in 2022
 
FT.com
December 28, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 605 words
Byline: Michael O’Dwyer in London
Body
Insolvency practitioners are gearing up for a rise in the number of distressed UK companies in 2022 as businesses 
battle increasing costs, a supply chain squeeze, staff shortages and the threat of further coronavirus restrictions. 
The signs that companies were increasingly struggling as pandemic financial support measures tapered off were 
evident in November, when insolvencies in England and Wales hit their highest level since January 2019, according 
to government data.
“The number of macro headwinds that are facing all sectors, but some in particular, are just extraordinary,” said 
Adam Gallagher, a restructuring partner at law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett. “They all point to inflation, be it 
energy, logistics, raw materials, freight, wages — the list goes on.” 
The number of companies falling into insolvency processes such as administration or liquidation plummeted after 
Covid-19 first struck last year. Businesses were propped up by government support such as the furlough scheme 
and taxpayer-backed loans while private investors continued to pump cash into liquidity-starved companies. 
That has started to change with the withdrawal or reduction of government support schemes, repayments becoming 
due on government-backed pandemic loans and rising interest rates. 
“It has got busier over the past few weeks [and] it will continue to get busier. I cannot see [the government] coming 
back with the same support measures as we had [earlier in the pandemic],” said Blair Nimmo, chief executive of  
Interpath Advisory, the restructuring advisory firm that was  spun out of KPMG in May. 
UK insolvencies expected to rise in 2022
But with access to relatively cheap private finance available, few experts believe next year will break any records. 
“Do I expect this big, massive wall of insolvencies? No, I don’t think so,” said Nimmo. 
Atradius, a trade credit insurer, has predicted insolvencies will be 33 per cent higher in 2022 than in 2019. Much of 
the activity so far has been in the energy sector, where surging wholesale prices caused more than two dozen 
suppliers to collapse in the second half of 2021.
Rising fuel costs will have a knock-on impact in other sectors, particularly energy-intensive ones such as industrial 
manufacturing. Kevin Ellis, UK chair and senior partner of PwC, said he also expected construction, hospitality and 
retail to be hit.
Depending on the course of the pandemic in 2022, the travel industry could also be vulnerable. In a sign of the 
uncertainty facing the sector, Ryanair  this month warned its losses this year could be more than double market 
expectations because of the impact of the Omicron coronavirus variant. Europe’s largest airline by passengers 
carried said its forecasts were “hugely sensitive to any further positive or negative Covid news flow”. 
Many sectors are struggling to find staff in a tight labour market. “We’re running a number of care homes [and] 
we’re having to run at 75 per cent occupancy because we can’t get staff,” said Geoff Rowley, chief executive of 
FRP Advisory, a corporate finance and restructuring firm.
Rising costs are also affecting the construction sector. While some builders have benefited from climbing house 
prices, others are locked into fixed price contracts as the cost of labour and materials increases. 
Rowley said he was advising companies that had “entered into fixed-price contracts three years ago, their projects 
got massively delayed by Covid, material prices have gone through the roof [and] getting staff has become 
problematic”, adding: “They’ve had to absorb millions of pounds of losses and they don’t have a balance sheet to 
absorb millions of pounds of losses.”
Load-Date: December 29, 2021
End of Document
Tough business lessons from the pandemic
Tough business lessons from the pandemic
 
FT.com
December 26, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 820 words
Byline: Pilita Clark
Body
Boris Johnson is an idiot surrounded by idiots who should stop drumming up “mass hysteria” about Omicron and 
treat the viral variant as sensibly as leaders in the rest of Europe, Michael O’Leary raged the other week.
“They’re not all panicking in Italy or Spain or Germany or Holland,” the blustering boss of the Ryanair airline told a 
reporter from  The Times newspaper in London. 
Alas, a day after his interview appeared last weekend, the  Netherlands imposed a nationwide lockdown to curb 
Omicron’s spread and  Germany brought in tough new travel rules for arrivals from the UK. France already had 
similar travel limits by then and by Monday even O’Leary’s native Ireland had an 8pm curfew for pubs and 
restaurants.
He had overlooked a basic lesson of the pandemic that has been as true in 2021 as it was in 2020: certainty is 
fleeting in a world beset by uncertainty. 
But what if this is just the start of even greater volatility? 
Last year’s shocks of working from home, discovering Zoom and watching the speed of vaccine development have 
given way to another round of shifts in 2021 that raise profound questions about technology, solidarity and 
remorseless change.
Some of the most visible moves have been technological. 
Tough business lessons from the pandemic
Before 2021, did you think anyone would pay $69m for a piece of digital art by an artist called Beeple, as a crypto 
investor did at the first Christie’s auction of NFT, or non-fungible token art  in March
Did you imagine a country would ever make bitcoin legal tender, as  El Salvador did in June?
Or that  two billionaires would finally reach the edge of space a month later in their privately funded spacecraft? Or 
that Facebook would  rebrand itself Meta and declare it would focus on the virtual-world “metaverse”, where an 
outfit called Republic Realm  said it paid  $4.2m for a plot of digital land a few weeks ago?
It is hard to know what these and other tech developments really portend, nor if they are as alarming as many fear. 
Artificial intelligence is as likely to lead to net job creation as net job loss in companies, one new study by 
academics in Britain  suggested last week.
But it is difficult to be sanguine about a less visible pandemic shift: the widening gulfs between rich and poor, and 
business winners and losers. Indeed, nothing has exposed the emptiness of the idea that “we’re all in this together” 
and “building back better” as well as 2021 has.
When Forbes released its global  billionaires list in April it reported a record 493 new additions, despite a first Covid 
year of death, recession and job losses. That meant the world had on average gained a new billionaire every 17 
hours since the magazine’s March 2020 wealth snapshot.
Many on the list benefited from trends behind the spectacular pandemic gains made by what McKinsey calls the “  
Mega 25”. These are 25 companies, including Apple, Amazon and Microsoft, whose market capitalisation surged so 
much in the first pandemic year that they collectively accounted for 40 per cent of the $14tn of value that the overall 
market gained.
It would be one thing if this surging wealth had come as a big wave of pandemic recovery spending was being 
directed to where it is sorely needed.
Yet just  18 per cent of such spending in leading economies in 2020 was heading to efforts to cut carbon emissions, 
improve air pollution or support biodiversity, say Oxford university analysts tracking this expenditure.
As of last week, this share had risen to an estimated 29 per cent, says Brian O’Callaghan, lead researcher on the 
Oxford analysis, in large part thanks to measures in the $1.2tn bipartisan  infrastructure bill that US President Joe 
Biden signed into law in November. 
It would be even higher if Senator Joe Manchin, a Democrat with ties to the coal industry, weren’t trying to sink 
Biden’s  $1.75tn climate and social spending bill, which is literally called the Build Back Better plan.
Even so, the measures already approved globally could add up to enormous sums of green investment that should 
be a significant boost for strategically placed businesses in 2022.
But that boost is unlikely to be felt equally when global efforts to tackle the pandemic itself remain so wildly uneven. 
Rich nations have spent almost $16,000 per person on Covid, while least developed countries have only managed 
about $60 per person, the Oxford data shows.
Omicron has been a grim reminder that leaving billions of people unprotected is a recipe for further variants. Yet as 
the year closes,  the share of people fully vaccinated against Covid has reached an impressive 70 per cent in high-
income countries, while just 4 per cent in low-income ones.
Ultimately, the great lesson of 2021 is to be certain of uncertainty, and wary of any suggestion that the worst is 
over.
As O’Callaghan says: “Inequalities between countries and within countries have both grown, and that can only spell 
bad news for how societies operate in the future.”
Tough business lessons from the pandemic
Load-Date: December 30, 2021
End of Document
Hong Kong ’s CK Asset Holdings to sell airline leasing businesses
Hong Kong’s CK Asset Holdings to sell airline leasing businesses
 
FT.com
December 24, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 419 words
Byline: William Langley in Hong Kong
Body
CK Asset Holdings, the Hong Kong conglomerate founded by the city’s richest man, has agreed to sell its aircraft 
leasing businesses for a total of $4.28bn, as it draws back from an industry hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic.
An investment company managed by Carlyle Group will purchase CK Asset’s aircraft assets, said the Hong Kong 
company in a statement on Friday.
The sale comes as the Omicron coronavirus variant has upended the aviation sector and clouded the outlook for 
the  international travel industry just as parts of the world were beginning to open up.
“Covid-19 has caused a paradigm shift in the aircraft leasing sector. The risk and return dynamics has become 
volatile and unpredictable, and the industry has undergone increased consolidation, mergers and acquisitions 
activities to mitigate such volatility,” CK Asset said in a filing to the Hong Kong stock exchange.
The company, founded by Hong Kong’s richest man Li Ka-shing, estimated that the sale would generate about 
$170m in profits. The group’s shares rose as much as 4.1 per cent on Friday, their biggest gain in more than a 
month.
CK Asset said the businesses had generated consistent returns but the proceeds from the sale would generate 
working capital allowing it to “enhance its strategic focus during the pandemic”.
The travel industry has suffered a series of setbacks with the emergence of the Omicron variant weakening the 
prospect of a recovery in the travel industry. 
Hong Kong ’s CK Asset Holdings to sell airline leasing businesses
In Asia, countries including Thailand, Singapore and Japan restricted their borders to most foreign travellers this 
month to prevent the spread of the new variant. In  Europe, Germany and Austria were among the countries to also 
reintroduce curbs.
Airlines have closely monitored the latest restrictions, with low-cost carrier Ryanair warning on Wednesday that its 
losses this year  could be more than double what it had previously feared.
“The outlook for the first quarter of next year is quite gloomy because of this new variant,” said Brendan Sobie, an 
independent aviation analyst at Sobie Aviation in Singapore. “The momentum that we were expecting only a month 
ago . . . obviously that’s not going to happen any more.”
Sobie added that aircraft leasing companies had played a “critical role” in supporting airlines throughout the 
pandemic by allowing them to cut costs through renegotiations and deferred payments.
But as the pandemic continues to restrict travel, aircraft lease rates and values have fallen, he added, putting some 
leasing companies in distress.
Load-Date: December 24, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair doubles forecast of full-year losses as Omicron spread hits bookings
Ryanair doubles forecast of full-year losses as Omicron spread hits 
bookings
 
FT.com
December 22, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 389 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair has warned its losses this year could be more than double what it feared and has slashed flying schedules 
in response to the rapid spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant and travel restrictions across Europe. 
The low-cost carrier on Wednesday  issued guidance forecasting losses for the financial year ending in March to 
rise from between €100m and €200m to a range of €250m-€450m.
In a sign of the uncertainty facing the industry, Ryanair also warned the new forecast was “hugely sensitive to any 
further positive or negative Covid news flow”.
The sudden emergence of the variant has “notably weakened close-in Christmas and New Year bookings”, Ryanair 
said in a statement. 
The warning is the most detailed information yet on how  travel bans have hit bookings across what is normally a 
busy period for European airlines. 
Industry executives had been hoping that the worst of the crisis was well behind them and celebrated the steady 
easing since the summer of most travel restrictions, including expensive testing. 
Instead, the outlook has again darkened nearly two years into the crisis for aviation. 
Ryanair doubles forecast of full-year losses as Omicron spread hits bookings
Ryanair pointed in particular to the decisions by French and German governments to ban most travellers from the 
UK, and the suspension of all EU flights to and from Morocco. 
In response, the airline said it expected to carry fewer passengers than forecast in December, and cut its January 
flying schedules by 33 per cent. 
Taken together, Ryanair said it expected to carry “just under” 100m passengers in its financial year, down from its 
previous guidance of above 100m. 
The airline has not yet decided whether to cut flight plans for February and March, but said it would revisit its 
schedules “as more scientific information becomes available”.
“The most important catalysts for a return of passengers are an end to negative news flow on Omicron, limiting 
customers’ hesitance in booking, and restrictions on travel rolling off,” said Alex Irving, an aviation analyst at 
Bernstein.
Airlines across the continent have built walls of capital to see them though a second quiet winter in a row, but are 
reliant on a stronger summer in 2022. 
The next key test for the industry will be whether revenue from summer bookings, which traditionally begins to 
come in after Christmas, stands up to the negative news flow about travel. 
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
Brands, be more Ryanair
Brands, be more Ryanair
 
FT.com
December 22, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 709 words
Byline: Jemima Kelly
Body
Ryanair has been quite the sasspot on Twitter of late, and it seems everyone, from  GB News to the  Independent, 
is loving it. Yes, that Ryanair — the one that  charges you £55 if you forget to check in before arriving at the airport; 
the one whose CEO once floated the idea of paid-for loo visits and who advises customers seeking a refund to 
kindly “f*** off”. 
“A genuinely safe seat . . . and North Shropshire”, the budget airline’s official Twitter account  posted last week in 
the wake of the Tories’ by-election defeat, accompanied by a picture of a row of Ryanair plane seats and a map of 
the constituency. That came just a few days after the company  tweeted an image of a chart showing “Coronavirus 
alert levels in UK”, alongside “Downing Street party levels”. Level 4 was “Boris topless, asking Thatcher’s portrait if 
she comes here often”. “God help me bc I’m about to like a funny meme from a corporate account”,  one user 
wrote. Ryanair’s tweet got over 100,000 such “likes”.
The  company has taken many  swipes at the flailing British prime minister and his government in recent weeks. 
And you have to hand it to them: these jokes are actually funny. This is corporate trolling of a non-budget calibre; 
the kind that gives you warm, fuzzy and even — if you happen to have a surname like mine — vaguely patriotic 
feelings about the airline. 
But not every we-just-want-to-be-funny-and-likeable corporate social media post manages to strike the right tone. 
Contrast Ryanair’s Twitter account with that of Pepsi, whose bio alone makes me grimace: “If you’re looking for hot 
takes and cold Pepsi, you’ve come to the right place.” Yeesh. It turns out you don’t get either of those things from 
Brands, be more Ryanair
Pepsi’s Twitter page; what you get instead is one of the biggest companies on the planet trying to pretend it is just a 
regular Joe — and rather an irritating Joe, at that. 
“Yup. We did that. Introducing Pepsi Mic Drop — our genesis #NFT collection,” the company tweeted earlier this 
month, as it announced it was launching a series of non-fungible tokens — the digital “collectibles” being flogged by 
everyone from Adidas to  Melania Trump. “This is going to look great in the metaverse,” replied the company 
formerly known as Facebook (now Meta). “You know it, fren!” said Pepsi. “Welcome brand friend. WAGMI,” was 
Budweiser’s response. Pepsi: “Thanks, fren! WAGMI”.
Is there anything creepier on the internet than a bunch of corporate behemoths speaking to one another like they’re 
24-year-old tech bros? The “WAGMI” acronym they keep repeating has become popular in the cryptosphere in 
recent months and stands for “we’re all going to make it” — itself a disingenuous slogan. 
And nobody, not even crypto fans, seems impressed: “Pepsi calling Facebook ‘fren’ on Twitter makes me want to 
jump immediately,” one  tweeted. “Literally just turn the internet off,”  said another. A popular crypto site  ran a piece 
lamenting the fact that “corporations like Pepsi, Budweiser, and Adidas are buying NFTs and metaverse land and 
tweeting ‘WAGMI,’ making crypto less cool, more cringe.”
Of course the person coming up with these tweets probably is a cool and clued-up Zoomer who earns a fraction of 
what their bosses in the C-suite get paid, but that doesn’t really help matters. Pepsi has a history of trying too hard 
to be relevant and getting it wrong: back in 2017, the company had to  pull an advert starring Kendall Jenner after it 
was accused of trivialising Black Lives Matter protests.
It should be noted that likeability — or lack thereof — doesn’t always correlate with profitability. Ryanair’s newfound 
Twitter fans are surely welcome but they are not needed: Brits might have voted the airline the worst in the world for  
seven years on the trot, but during that period the airline’s  customer numbers almost doubled. 
Nevertheless, given that these brands appear desperate to be loved, perhaps some basic rules should be followed: 
don’t talk about “making it” when you’re raking in profits of more than  $10bn a year; don’t engage in empty virtue-
signalling; never use  rocket emojis; don’t chat to each other like mates; do make good jokes at the expense of 
politicians who deserve it. I can’t believe I’m going to say this but: brands, be more Ryanair. 
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
Wizz Air snaps up Gatwick slots from Norwegian
Wizz Air snaps up Gatwick slots from Norwegian
 
FT.com
December 22, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 501 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Low-cost airline Wizz Air has bought a portfolio of take-off and landing slots at Gatwick airport from Norwegian Air 
Shuttle, in a deal that significantly increases its presence in the UK. 
The Hungarian carrier has acquired 15 daily slot pairs from Norwegian, which once used Gatwick as a base for 
transatlantic flying but has slimmed down into a regional player during the pandemic.
Wizz will use the slots to build its network of short-haul flights from the UK as part of an aggressive expansion plan 
that has prompted it to order new aircraft and open bases during the pandemic in a challenge to European low-cost 
giant Ryanair.
The London-listed airline said it would increase the number of Airbus A321neo￿aircraft based at Gatwick from one 
to five early next year. 
“Acquiring airport slots at Gatwick airport will enable us to enhance our presence and competitive position in the 
London market,” said Jozsef Varadi, Wizz Air’s chief executive. 
The terms of the deal were not disclosed, but aircraft slots can be highly lucrative, particularly in capacity-
constrained airports such as Gatwick, where new airlines can struggle to gain a foothold. 
In 2017, British Airways  bought 20 prime take-off and landing slots at Gatwick from collapsed airline Monarch for 
as much as £50m.
Wizz Air snaps up Gatwick slots from Norwegian
Gatwick’s biggest airline, easyJet, was offered the slots but decided not to buy them, according to a person familiar 
with the discussions.
With early morning arrival times and turnrounds of up to three hours, the slots are better geared for long-haul flying, 
the person said. 
Norwegian  abandoned its attempt to crack the low-cost long-haul market earlier this year, leading to 1,100 job 
losses at Gatwick.
The airline became the biggest European casualty of the pandemic-induced aviation crisis when it filed for 
protection from creditors in Ireland last year. Rapid expansion had left it with an unmanageable debt burden as 
travel seized up. 
The high-profile failure has not deterred a new airline called Norse Atlantic, backed by former Norwegian investors, 
from launching with plans to resuscitate the low-cost transatlantic model next year. 
Wizz has long promised to increase its presence at Gatwick but has been frustrated by rules brought in during the 
crisis that have allowed carriers such as Norwegian to keep their landing slots at airports without using them. 
Wizz and Gatwick have pushed the UK government to bring back the  normal slot rules, which force airlines to give 
up slots if they are not used 80 per cent of the time. 
Gatwick has seen several airlines shift operations to Heathrow during the crisis, and is still only using one of its two 
terminals.
Wizz shares were flat by mid-morning in London on Wednesday, but have recovered all of their pandemic losses as 
investors have backed the airline’s expansion plans.
Still, some analysts have cautioned that a move into western markets will expose Wizz to the sort of higher costs 
faced by its rivals, particularly as it faces pressure to allow crews to unionise.
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
Airlines call for UK support after Omicron dents recovery hopes
Airlines call for UK support after Omicron dents recovery hopes
 
FT.com
December 13, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 510 words
Byline: Tom Wilson in London
Body
The British airline industry has called for a new package of economic support and for the additional testing of fully 
vaccinated passengers to be scrapped, in a public attack on the latest UK travel restrictions aimed at tackling the 
spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant.
The chief executives of British Airways, Virgin Atlantic, Ryanair and easyJet described the new pre- and post-
departure testing of UK-bound passengers as “disproportionate” and at risk of causing “permanent scarring” to the 
industry.
The open letter, which was also signed by the heads of Loganair, Jet2, Tui and the industry association Airlines UK, 
was published early on Monday ahead of a meeting between executives and government officials later in the day.
“Whilst we fully recognise the need to take steps to contain the initial impact of the Omicron variant, travel has been 
singled out with the introduction of disproportionate restrictions,” the executives said.
“Further, pre-departure and upon-arrival testing clearly add very little value to our Covid protection, but 
unnecessarily disrupt Christmas for families as well as businesses while severely damaging the UK travel industry,” 
they added.
Under the new measures, travellers to the UK must take a PCR coronavirus test before departure and after arrival, 
adding expense and complication to journeys. Previously, fully vaccinated passengers were only required to take 
one lateral flow test, two days after landing.
Airlines call for UK support after Omicron dents recovery hopes
The airline industry has asked for those measures to be scrapped when they are formally reviewed by the 
government on December 20 and for new economic support to “bridge the sector through the crisis”.
Airline executives will request an extension to outstanding pandemic loans issued by the government and, if the 
travel restrictions are not lifted soon, a new aviation sector furlough scheme, according to one person familiar with 
the sector’s thinking. Given the level of debt already taken on by some airlines, the industry was also likely to ask 
for grant support, the person added.
Before the alarm caused by Omicron,  the airline industry had just begun to recover after 20 months of disruption.
That recovery was now stalling, the executives said, with the new restrictions disrupting travel and threatening to 
dent customer sentiment ahead of the new year booking season, when up to 30 per cent of annual tickets are sold.
The World Health Organization has already urged governments not to impose “blanket bans” on travel, such as  the 
UK’s red list, which prevents visitors from designated countries from travelling to the UK and forces all returning UK 
nationals and residents to quarantine in official hotels for 10 days.
The airline executives said they had seen “immediate problems with red list arrivals”, such as official hotels that 
were not ready or were fully booked, stranding travellers abroad.
Given that the UK Health Security Agency expects Omicron to overtake Delta as the dominant coronavirus variant 
in the UK by mid-December, many of the curbs were no longer needed, the executives added.
Load-Date: December 13, 2021
End of Document
EasyJet head shakes off cautious label and takes the fight to his rivals
EasyJet head shakes off cautious label and takes the fight to his rivals
 
FT.com
December 5, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 986 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Even as the outlook darkens for the airline industry, Johan Lundgren has decided it is time to be more ambitious. 
The easyJet boss is switching to a bolder strategy to take on freewheeling rivals Ryanair and Wizz after his notably 
cautious approach to the pandemic.
The UK low-cost carrier is buying up slots at busy airports, including London Gatwick, and predicting a return to 
close to pre-pandemic levels of flying by next summer in a significant about-turn. 
Lundgren hopes the change will shore up easyJet’s battered share price and satisfy some “underwhelmed” 
investors, who have been calling for a more aggressive strategy. 
It shows that the Swedish executive, who has emphasised being “credible and trustworthy”, is hoping to step up his 
challenge to Ryanair and Wizz, Europe’s two other big, low-cost carriers.
“In times of uncertainty, there will always be a space for big mouths who fill the vacuum with endless expectations 
of growth in the long term. And that is attractive, perhaps, for some people to listen to,” he told the Financial Times 
as he took a swipe at Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary and Wizz’s József Váradi, who have both been bullish in their 
predictions for growth.
Lundgren’s new approach, bolstered by easyJet’s bigger-than-expected £1.2bn capital raise in September, comes 
at a key moment for the airline as uncertainty sweeps though the industry after the emergence of the Omicron 
coronavirus variant last week.
EasyJet head shakes off cautious label and takes the fight to his rivals
He was speaking before the UK government announced new travel restriction on Saturday evening, in a blow to the 
aviation industry’s recovery hopes. 
EasyJet’s share price languishes 50 per cent below pre-pandemic levels, in contrast to the recovery of those of 
Ryanair and Wizz, which have ordered hundreds of jets to take advantage of the retreat of weaker groups as they 
aim for rapid expansion.
O’Leary has talked of a once-in-a-generation chance to grab market share because of the pandemic, while Wizz 
launched an opportunistic bid for easyJet, which was rejected unanimously by the British group’s board. 
However, some of Lundgren’s caution remains. “The lack of clarity of where we are, and the uncertainty, which has 
been proven this week [with the emergence of the Omicron variant] as an example, means that you also have to be 
realistic and understand that this is not a short-term sprint.”
His approach is based on a tough past year for the airline, which lost more than £2bn during the pandemic as it 
slowly rebuilt its flight schedules and focused on running routes where it could fill seats to maximise returns.
But its depressed share price and capacity, expected to be 65 per cent of normal this quarter, compared with 
Ryanair and Wizz, which are both back to near pre-pandemic schedules, have prompted some to question whether 
Lundgren has charted the right course.
One industry executive with knowledge of easyJet’s negotiations with airports said he had been struck by the 
airline’s caution in adding new routes and jumping on post-pandemic opportunities.
Eddie Wilson, Ryanair’s senior executive, said easyJet “seems to be gradually retreating”.
“They are getting smaller . . . we always take opportunities in periods like this,” he said at an industry event.
Indeed, Lundgren admitted that shareholders felt that targets set out at the company’s annual results presentation 
in September were not bold enough.
“There’s no secret that there might be some people who are underwhelmed by the targets,” he said of goals that 
included getting back to pre-pandemic capacity by 2023 and aims for low- to mid-teen return of capital over the 
same timeframe. 
“There’s still uncertainty about the pace of the recovery. Therefore, you want to make sure also that you’re coming 
out with a target that you feel that you can hit. And you know, my ambition is, of course, to beat them. And that’s the 
whole purpose of everything that we’re doing,” he added.
However, there are reasons for his more cautious approach compared with his two main rivals. The carrier has 
suffered because of its exposure to the UK market, which has been slower to recover than continental Europe 
because of more onerous travel restrictions, including expensive testing.
It also flies from more expensive airports than Ryanair and Wizz and has higher costs.
In addition, Lundgren has faced withering criticism from the company’s largest shareholder and founder Stelios 
Haji-Ioannou, who wants the airline to slash its fleet, and last year launched an unsuccessful bid to replace the chief 
executive and other board members.
Although the influence of Haji-Ioannou’s stake has been drastically reduced after his shares were diluted to 15 per 
cent from 25 per cent when the airline raised capital in September, the pressure to shrink the business has 
complicated the carrier’s challenges.  
“I just note that there was some criticism on the company for 14 months of the pandemic, asking . . . why do we 
have all these planes on order? And now there’s more like, well, do you have enough of them?” he said.
EasyJet head shakes off cautious label and takes the fight to his rivals
He also faced the threat of takeover from rivals, highlighted this autumn when Wizz made its bid for the carrier.
“It’s not unusual that these things happen. Equally, we would ourselves look at other companies from time to time,” 
he said.
But he dismisses significant consolidation as the industry emerges from the pandemic and expects the airline to 
continue its recovery. Bookings for the summer are now running ahead of pre-pandemic levels, while the 
accumulation of airport slots means the carrier is well-placed to grab market share.
He also has the early support of new chair Stephen Hester, a City veteran who took up his position on Wednesday. 
The carrier “will be straining every sinew to create real shareholder bounceback in coming years”, Hester said on 
his first day as he stressed the airline’s renewed determination to emerge as a pandemic winner and finally reward 
its long-suffering shareholders.
Load-Date: December 5, 2021
End of Document
Are remote workers really plugged into company culture?
Are remote workers really plugged into company culture?
 
FT.com
December 2, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 848 words
Byline: Andrew Hill
Body
“Absence makes the heart grow fonder,” according to the proverb. Or is it more a case of “out of sight, out of mind”? 
Lengthy periods of enforced remote working have demonstrated that, for any group of employees, both can 
sometimes be true.
Working from home during the pandemic loosened UK professionals’ ties with the consultancies or law or 
accountancy firms that employed them, the Financial Times recently reported. The lifting of lockdown then 
encouraged job-hopping because candidates could now bond with prospective employers face to face.
These are two sides of the “out of sight, out of mind” coin: heads, the isolation of remote working reduces loyalty to 
your existing employer; tails, the revival of in-person encounters encourages you to form an attachment with a new 
one.
In the “absence makes the heart grows fonder” camp, though, sits work by the Financial Services Culture Board. Its  
2020 assessment of thousands of UK banking staff detected improvements in scores for feedback, leaders’ 
honesty, and wellbeing. Those scores fell back slightly  this year, but remained more positive than in 2019. Jenny 
Robinson, the FSCB’s senior behavioural scientist, suggests people might have felt “they were able to use their 
judgment and autonomy” more when working remotely.
Then there is a  study by the Oliver Wyman Forum that found a desire for more flexibility and a better work-life 
balance, rather than a hunger to return to the office, were the most important reasons for leaving or wanting to 
leave a job, after the quest for more money.
Are remote workers really plugged into company culture?
The sweet spot is hard to hit. Undermanaged remote-working staff can feel neglected, leading to bad 
consequences, from job dissatisfaction to burnout and fraud.
Another poll this year,  by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors, highlighted the risk of a “post-pandemic 
organisational culture crisis”. “How do employees maintain their strong attachment to the business, continue to 
experience the shared purpose, values and sense of community within their organisation and uphold 
expected behaviours in the absence of the old office-centric in-person interactions?” asked Heli Mooney, head of 
internal audit at airline Ryanair.
Whether the office repels or attracts depends on where you sit in the hierarchy. Robinson identifies two “humps” — 
representing senior managers and junior employees or new starters. They are keener to return to the office than the 
staff in between. “How much a part of their organisation does someone feel if their integration has been a keyboard 
transfer in a car park?” one manager responded to the FSCB when asked what it meant to belong to a business 
that has “no unifying cultural experiences”.
As the FSCB points out, there is a difference between connectedness, which technology enabled during lockdown, 
and collaboration, which can be more difficult. Processes that bind in new or junior staff, such as desk-side learning 
from experienced staff, are hard to replicate online. That is one reason investment banks, which set great store by 
such methods, have spearheaded “return to the office” campaigns.
Organisational cultures are certainly being reshaped by the shock of coronavirus and its consequences. That this is 
creating fallout in the labour market is not a surprise to Kevin Rockmann, a management professor at George 
Mason University in Virginia. Not everyone who was satisfied in their job before the pandemic will be satisfied after 
it.
Rockmann and Michael Pratt of Boston College studied the unintended consequences of distributed work at an 
unnamed technology company in a  2015 paper for the Academy of Management Discoveries journal entitled 
“Contagious Offsite Work and the Lonely Office”. One central finding was that once a proportion of workers decided 
to operate remotely, the quality of work in the office was diminished. Staff found themselves “alone in a crowd, 
surrounded by people but not gaining any meaningful social contact in the on-site office” and ultimately chose to 
work off-site.
That feeling will be familiar to anyone who has  returned to the workplace only to find that the people they want to 
meet have chosen that day to work from home.
As employers seek to reverse the flow to remote work, Rockmann says they and employees, like their counterparts 
in 2015, may have to make choices. “This is going to lead to some shake-up,” he says. It is fine to experiment, he 
adds, but ultimately companies “need to put their flag in the ground” and make working arrangements clear, so staff 
can elect to stay or quit. “A lazy solution is to jump to an in-between model and try to make everybody happy: the 
average level of dissatisfaction [with that approach] will be high.”
Of course, employers, and even staff, may be “homesick” for a cultural and management ideal that  never really 
existed before the pandemic, the FSCB’s Robinson says. But, as the crisis ebbs, they will also come to realise that 
corporate loyalty and culture depend less on where work is carried out and more on how it is done, celebrated, 
rewarded and overseen.
Andrew Hill is the FT’s management editor
Load-Date: December 10, 2021
End of Document
EasyJet warns of ‘softening’ demand as Omicron worries consumers
EasyJet warns of ‘softening’ demand as Omicron worries consumers
 
FT.com
November 30, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 557 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
EasyJet warned flight bookings had been hit by the return of travel restrictions as the emergence of the Omicron 
coronavirus variant threatened to upset the industry’s fragile recovery.
The airline’s shares fell close to their lowest level in more than a year on Tuesday as the UK reintroduced 
expensive PCR testing for all international arrivals and along with other European countries restricted travel from 
southern Africa following the detection of the new  Omicron strain. 
The company said there had been “some softening of trading” for the rest of 2021, although the impact from the 
Omicron variant had been less severe than when travel curbs were introduced earlier in the pandemic with shares 
recovering slightly by early afternoon to 492.4p, 2 per cent down. 
Tim Clark, the chief executive of Gulf carrier Emirates, said the variant could lead to “significant traumas” for 
airlines, one of the starkest warnings yet over its possible impact on the industry.
“December is a very important month for the air travel business. If that is lost, or the winter is lost to a lot of carriers, 
there will be significant traumas in the business,” he told a Reuters event.
EasyJet said it was too early to tell if the industry’s recovery had been blown off course, but it slightly pared back its 
flight schedules for the rest of this year.
The airline planned to fly 65 per cent of 2019’s capacity in the current quarter — down from the 70 per cent forecast 
in a trading update in October.
EasyJet warns of ‘softening’ demand as Omicron worries consumers
EasyJet has been notably more cautious in its scheduling than low-cost rivals Ryanair and Wizz Air, and expected 
its planes to be 80 per cent full over the rest of this year. 
“We remain mindful that many uncertainties remain as we navigate the winter,” said chief executive Johan 
Lundgren.
City breaks had been the worst hit by the travel restrictions, but more people had been transferring flights over to 
next year than cancelling them, Lundgren said. 
He was upbeat over the longer-term recovery from the pandemic, and said bookings for the spring and summer 
were still strong and running ahead of pre-pandemic levels. 
The airline expected to return to near pre-pandemic levels of trading by the end of its fourth quarter, which runs 
from July to September. 
“This was always going to be a year of two halves, where there will be uncertainty over the winter, and we expect 
things to pick up strongly into the summer,” Lundgren said.
The carrier has secured new slots at airports including Gatwick, Lisbon and Porto, and planned to lease six new 
aircraft to meet the pent-up demand for travel next summer.
“EasyJet expects a significant benefit as the UK bounces back next summer,” Lundgren said. 
The hit from the new variant came as easyJet reported a loss of £1.1bn for its financial year ending in September. It 
also lost more than £1bn in its previous financial year — a period that included the start of the coronavirus crisis. 
Total revenue fell 52 per cent across the financial year to £1.5bn.
The UK airline turned to shareholders for a £1.2bn  cash call to bolster its finances in September, and had access 
to £4.4bn of liquidity by the end of September. 
“It is too soon to tell what impact Omicron will have on travel restrictions, but easyJet has the balance sheet 
strength to deal with such a challenge,” said Gerald Khoo, a transport analyst at Liberum.
Load-Date: November 30, 2021
End of Document
Jet2 executive chair sells £22m in shares
Jet2 executive chair sells £22m in shares
 
FT.com
November 26, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 610 words
Byline: Alex Hamer and Julian Hofmann, Investors’ Chronicle
Body
As travel slowly returns, airline share prices have bounced around, with optimism and Covid-19 case rates 
swapping focus each week. The most recent dip came as Germany, the Netherlands and Austria  raised the alarm 
over rising Covid cases, with lockdowns of varying degrees put in place in each of those countries. 
This worsened outlook and the greater prospect of the pandemic determining another winter’s travel options hit 
airlines hard, with the majors like British Airways-owner  IAG down about 10 per cent since the first week of 
November. 
Aim-listed Jet2 has a slightly different focus to the other London-listed carriers bar Tui, given the lion’s share of its 
business comes from package holiday sales. As of November 18, its outlook for the coming months was positive, 
with seat capacity only down 11 per cent compared with the 2019/2020 winter period. This update also included a 
widened interim operating loss, as customer demand did not meet expectations. The airline’s load factor, effectively 
how many seats are filled, fell from 69 per cent in the first half of last year to 57 per cent this year because 
restrictions kept more wary travellers on the ground.
After this half-year results announcement, executive chair Philip Meeson sold £22m in shares, as well as another 
£5m from an entity called The Philip Meeson 2019 Settlement, of which he is a trustee, but not a beneficiary. The 
company said the sale was consistent with his “historic sales of small amounts of his holding from time to time”. 
Meeson, who bought what turned into Jet2 in 1983, still owns 20.18 per cent of the company. 
Jet2 executive chair sells £22m in shares
Like Ryanair, Jet2 has used the forecast demand in travel for 2022 to pitch itself as a Covid-19 recovery story. 
While it’s hard to imagine 2020-level restrictions coming back, the past week has shown it’s not completely off the 
table. 
Saga chair splashes the cash
Shareholders who regularly grumble about directors not putting their money where their mouth is can find little fault 
in the actions of Sir Roger de Haan. The Saga chair has forked out the best part of £1m in share purchases after 
buying 341,415 shares at an average of 293p a piece in one of the more noticeable directors’ deals of the week.
With the share price currently near multiyear lows, Sir Roger’s timing looks like a relatively shrewd bet given that a 
combination of greater regulatory clarity, deleveraging over the next few years and a return to some sort of 
economic normality is likely to float Saga’s share price higher than one of its cruise ships. 
The regulatory clarity follows the phasing out of so-called “price walking”, where premiums for customers who auto-
renew their insurance, or at least fail to change providers, are automatically charged progressively higher rates. 
While the industry was understandably less than enthusiastic at first, the certainty that pricing models, and in some 
cases whole businesses, had to change to reflect the demands of a new regime has offered insurers considerable 
operational clarity.
It is fair to say that Saga has not had the easiest time over the past 18 months, with the pandemic leading to the 
sight of cruise ships rusting away in sheltered coves around the coastline. 
While far from a happy situation, at least the retiree-focused company had other business units that were able to 
take up some of the strain from its suffering holidays division, particularly its broadly successful insurance arm. In 
pure valuation terms, Saga is reasonably priced for an insurer with a share price barely 0.6 of net asset value — 
well below the three average of 1.1 times NAV — so it lands well within bargain basement/value trap territory. 
Load-Date: November 26, 2021
End of Document
Airlines brace for threat from Europe’s surge of Covid infections
Airlines brace for threat from Europe’s surge of Covid infections
 
FT.com
November 25, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 490 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Alice Hancock
Body
A surge of coronavirus cases in continental Europe has cast a shadow over the travel industry’s recovery, with 
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary forecasting a “fraught period” over the next month. 
Covid cases and deaths are  rising quickly across many countries in the region, and several, including Austria and 
Slovakia, have imposed short national lockdowns in an attempt to rein in infections.
Concerns about a weak winter have hit travel stocks, with shares in easyJet, British Airways’ owner IAG and 
Europe’s largest hotel group Accor each down about 15 per cent over the past three weeks. 
O’Leary said it was “inevitable” that rising Covid cases would disrupt travel. “It looks like Europe is going to get very 
nervous again at the worst time of the year, when people are making their Christmas travel plans,” he said this 
week. 
The uncertainty could also weigh on early bookings for next summer, which tend to come in between Christmas and 
New Year, he added.
Airlines have slightly pared back their flight schedules, and the number of scheduled seats in western Europe has 
fallen over the past three weeks, according to data from OAG. 
“European travel intentions have been affected by the rise in Covid cases across the continent, and by the 
lockdowns and announcements in many European countries,” said Axel Hefer, chief executive of Trivago.
Airlines brace for threat from Europe’s surge of Covid infections
Hefer said there had been a 50 per cent decline in searches for domestic and international travel in Austria, and a 
35 per cent fall in the Netherlands, where the government has introduced new restrictions on bars, restaurants and 
non-essential shops. 
Room occupancy in Amsterdam has fallen from 62 per cent in the last week of October to 41 per cent this week, 
and there have also been declines in Vienna and Munich, according to figures from STR, a hospitality data provider.
There has been a fall in search interest for hotels in Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Germany, according to 
Expedia, the online travel booking company.
While the disruption is a blow for companies still recovering from the damage inflicted earlier in the pandemic, the 
situation is still far better than before vaccines allowed the reopening of travel earlier this year.
November is typically a quieter month for the industry, and airlines were still planning to raise capacity again going 
into the busier Christmas season, OAG said. 
Searches for flights so far this month have been 80 per cent higher than in the same month last year, according to 
travel bookings company Amadeus. 
Mark Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody, said the current difficulties for airlines should not detract from the 
long-term recovery picture.
“Nobody is buying the sector for Christmas prospects, they are buying for summer 2022 and 2023,” he said. 
“Airline stocks have derated as though they are facing last year’s risk, but I don’t see that. You have to keep the 
faith in what’s going to be some tough months to come.”
Load-Date: November 26, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair to drop London Stock Exchange listing to comply with EU post-Brexit rules
Ryanair to drop London Stock Exchange listing to comply with EU post-
Brexit rules
 
FT.com
November 19, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 520 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Ryanair has confirmed it will quit the London Stock Exchange next month to comply with EU ownership rules that 
have hit the airline industry following Brexit.
The move will end the Irish carrier’s 20-year listing on the LSE, making it one of the clearest examples of how the 
UK’s exit from the EU has affected London’s capital markets.
Ryanair warned earlier this month that it was considering leaving the LSE because of EU rules requiring airlines to 
be owned and controlled by nationals from within the bloc, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein.
The airline has barred non-EU individuals from buying shares in the company for nearly 20 years, and in January 
extended this to institutions and individuals in the UK after the country left the bloc.
On Friday, Ryanair said it expected the last day of trading in its London-listed shares to be December 17. Although 
the airline’s primary listing is on the Euronext in Dublin, London has long been a more liquid market than Dublin for 
its stock. 
However, the volume of its shares traded on the LSE has tumbled since January and now comprises just 10 per 
cent of the total, according to calculations by Mark Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody.
Ryanair to drop London Stock Exchange listing to comply with EU post-Brexit rules
“The volume of trading of the shares on the London Stock Exchange does not justify the costs,” the airline said on 
Friday.
UK shareholders who held Ryanair shares before January have been able to keep their holdings but are barred 
from attending or voting at annual meetings. But the carrier has struggled to keep new UK investors out.
It had to eject some UK shareholders in September through the forced sale of 1m shares after they bought into the 
company. 
“UK [shareholders] can continue to hold if they want, but will have to now sell through Euronext should they want to 
do so,” Simpson said of UK investors who owned the shares before Britain left the EU in January. 
Ryanair is one of several airlines that has been forced to make changes to its corporate structure to comply with 
airline ownership rules in order to protect their ability to fly freely within the EU after Brexit.
Wizz Air has also taken away the voting rights of UK shareholders, while easyJet has set up a Vienna-based airline 
to carry out its European operations. 
British Airways owner International Airlines Group, an Anglo-Spanish company, has not recently disclosed a 
breakdown of its ownership, but the Spanish and Irish regulators have declared that it complies with EU rules. 
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive,  told the Financial Times earlier this month that he expected Brussels to 
carefully examine whether companies are complying with ownership rules in the coming months. “The EU 
authorities, I think particularly the French or the Germans, are going to take a very strong view on EU ownership,” 
he said. 
Smaller airlines and freight operators that operate non-scheduled flights have seen far more disruption than major 
passenger airlines, and now need to apply for permits whenever they fly into an EU country.
UK pilots are also no longer able to fly EU-registered aircraft without an expensive conversion to a European 
licence.
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
B&Q owner raises earnings guidance
B&Q owner raises earnings guidance
 
FT.com
November 19, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 601 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
DIY retailer Kingfisher raised earnings guidance as market share wins and self-help measures combined with 
strong recent trading. The B&Q and Castorama owner guided full-year profit will be towards the higher end of its 
target range of between £910m and £950m.
“Demand remains supported by what we believe are enduring new industry trends, including more working from 
home,” said Thierry Garnier, chief executive officer.
Like-for-like sales fell 2.4 per cent in the three months to October but were 15 per cent higher than the pre-
pandemic level. Kingfisher said it had made a good start to the fiscal fourth quarter, with growth across both retail 
and trade channels driving same-store sales to November 13 up 0.4 per cent year on year.
Join top banking CEOs at the Global Banking Summit on November 30 - December 2 and benefit from the 
knowledge, experience, and key insights of 75 speakers. As a City Bulletin reader you can receive a special 
discount by  signing up here.
Briefly
UK consumer confidence improved in November despite surging inflation, easing some economists’ concerns 
about the spending recovery in the run-up to Black Friday and Christmas. The UK consumer confidence index, a 
closely watched measure of how people view the state of their personal finances and wider economic prospects, 
rose 3 points to minus 14 in November, according to research company GfK.
B&Q owner raises earnings guidance
Ryanair said that following shareholder meetings it will push ahead with the cancellation of its London Stock 
Exchange listing. The airline, whose primary listing is on Euronext Dublin, said the volume of shares trading on the 
LSE does not justify the cost of maintaining the quote.
Great Portland Estates lifted its annual rental value outlook after posting a return to profit. The office and retail 
landlord guided for rental values to increase between 2 per cent and 5 per cent for the year ending March. Its half-
year results showed a £62.2m profit after tax versus a £154.8m loss a year ago.
Halma, the safety equipment maker, agreed to buy US-based healthcare consulting and services provider Infinite 
Leap for $30m.
Logistics group Wincanton posted an underlying profit for the half year to September up 42.9 per cent to £27.3m 
and said it remained on track to meet full-year expectations.
Beyond the Square Mile
Turkey slashed interest rates, sending the lira tumbling as much as 6 per cent to a record low and heightening 
concerns that President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s fixation on low borrowing costs will worsen already acute inflation.
At least nine US states are examining whether Facebook violated state consumer protection laws and “put the 
public at risk” by promoting its Instagram photo-sharing app to young people “despite knowing that such use is 
associated with physical and mental health harms”, said Maura Healey, Massachusetts attorney-general.
Hong Kong shares in Alibaba fell 10 per cent after the Chinese ecommerce giant forecast annual revenue would 
grow at its slowest pace since its 2014 stock market debut. Alibaba’s second-quarter results missed expectations 
due to slowing consumption, increasing competition and a regulatory crackdown.
Essential comment before you go
The rise of  passive investing may be among the factors driving a new bias to inflation globally, writes Merryn 
Somerset Webb. As well as potentially reducing competitive pressure in the market, it “creates an odd dynamic 
where expensive stocks get more expensive and cheap ones just stay cheap.”
City Insider looks into the crystal ball  with Metro Bank and takes stock of a spat between Numis and ecommerce 
group THG over an errant email. 
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Airbus wins large order from veteran low-cost airline investor Franke
Airbus wins large order from veteran low-cost airline investor Franke
 
FT.com
November 14, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 462 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Sylvia Pfeifer
Body
Airbus has secured a multibillion-dollar order for 255 single-aisle jets from veteran airline investor Bill Franke, a deal 
that underlines the plane-maker’s forecast that the industry is poised to rebound strongly from the pandemic.
The deal sealed at the Dubai Airshow on Sunday packages together A321neo aircraft for delivery across a stable of 
ultra-low-cost airlines backed by Franke’s Indigo Partners, including Europe’s Wizz Air and Frontier in the US. 
The order is a sign that low-cost, short-haul airlines are rapidly rebounding from the impact of the pandemic, and 
comes as Franke is positioning his airlines to capitalise on the industry-wide disruption. 
“This order reaffirms our portfolio airlines’ commitment to consistent growth through the next decade,” he said. 
The US private equity executive is considered to be one of the  most successful aviation investors in history. He has 
bought stakes in a clutch of low-cost airlines and spurred growth by cutting costs and focusing on expanding 
markets such as eastern Europe. 
Wizz Air, which will receive 102 aircraft, has promised to use the pandemic to expand across Europe and beyond. It 
made an unsuccessful  bid for British rival easyJet this year.
Rival low-cost carrier Ryanair signalled its  own ambitions with an order from Boeing during the depths of the 
aviation crisis last December, and is expecting delivery of more than 200 aircraft in the coming years. 
Airbus wins large order from veteran low-cost airline investor Franke
The Wizz order includes 27 A321XLR, longer-range aircraft capable of reaching the Middle East from western 
Europe, following Wizz’s launch of an Abu Dhabi-based joint venture earlier this year. 
Frontier will receive 91 new aircraft, while Latin American carriers Volaris and JetSmart will get 39 and 23 planes 
respectively. 
Neither Airbus nor Indigo released details on pricing. 
Airbus this weekend said it expected industry growth to be driven by a combination of airlines upgrading older, 
inefficient aircraft and the soaring demand for air cargo.
The European plane maker forecast demand for 39,000 new-build passenger and freighter aircraft, 15,250 of these 
as replacements for ageing planes, by 2040.
Airbus’ forecast is less than 1 per cent lower than its previous one issued in 2019 before the pandemic, underlining 
its optimism that the industry is back on track.
As the aviation industry struggles to find a quick way to decarbonise, newer aircraft offer a way to reduce carbon 
emissions on a per passenger basis. 
“The world is expecting more sustainable flying and this will be made possible in the short-term by the introduction 
of most modern aeroplanes,” said Christian Scherer, chief commercial officer at Airbus. 
“As economies and air transport mature, we see demand increasingly driven by replacement rather than growth,” 
he said. 
Load-Date: November 14, 2021
End of Document
Revival of transatlantic flights brings new hope to travel industry
Revival of transatlantic flights brings new hope to travel industry
 
FT.com
November 8, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1473 words
Byline: Darren Dodd
Body
Good evening,
Today was a red letter day for the global travel industry as transatlantic air routes for vaccinated passengers 
reopened between the US and 33 countries, including the UK and most of Europe, after 18 months of disruption.
For an industry that has lost $6tn during the pandemic, the reopening of the most lucrative routes in the world — in 
normal times worth $9bn a year to US and UK carriers — is a big step forward, as our latest  Big Read explains. BA 
said today it planned to reinstate most of its  transatlantic network by the start of next summer. 
The damage from the pandemic has been widespread. Airlines, tour operators and hotels have had to be propped 
up by government handouts and loans, or have taken on more borrowing while sharply reducing headcounts.
Optimists are citing the bounceback from 9/11 as proof that the lost ground is recoverable. As one New Yorker put 
it: “Everyone was like, ‘Oh my God, it’s the end of the world, no one will ever get on a plane again or ever come 
back to New York again’. And then two years later [there was] the biggest boom time in New York for real estate 
[that lasted] for the next 20 years, plus everyone got back on planes and had the biggest numbers that they’ve ever 
had.” Short-haul airlines are also  turning more bullish: Jet2 and easyJet are among those preparing for a potential 
rush to destinations such as Greece next year. 
However, opinion is divided over the future of the $1.4tn business travel segment, the key driver of profit for carriers 
such as British Airways. Some argue that the rise of videoconferencing and environmental pressures mean things 
will never be the same again. Lettings company Airbnb believes business travellers are changing their approach, 
extending work trips into holidays and choosing to work from more exotic locations. Brian Chesky, the company’s 
Revival of transatlantic flights brings new hope to travel industry
chief executive, argues that travel isn’t “going back to where it was because I don’t think the world is going back to 
where it was”. 
But even against the backdrop of a critical  climate change summit, not everyone is convinced that green concerns 
will trump our urge to travel. As Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary puts it in his typical forthright fashion: “The 
idea that post-Covid people will never travel again, or post-COP people will stop flying or flight shaming? [It’s] never 
going to happen.”
Latest news
•
Randal Quarles, a US Federal Reserve governor, will  leave the central bank next month, creating another 
opening for the Biden administration to fill
•
Regeneron said its antibody drug reduced the risk of contracting Covid-19 by  more than 81 per cent in the 
two to eight-month period following the shot (Bloomberg)
•
EU authorities said there was no conclusive evidence of a cancer risk from synthetic face masks after a 
Belgian study warned that they may contain carcinogens (Reuters)
For up-to-the-minute coronavirus updates, visit our  live blog
Need to know: the economy
The economic criteria necessary for the US Federal Reserve to raise interest rates  could be met in 2022, Fed 
vice-chair Richard Clarida said today. Meanwhile, President Joe Biden is confident of passing his  $1.75tn social 
spending bill after finally getting approval for his $1tn infrastructure plan from the House of Representatives on 
Friday night. 
The European Central Bank’s chief economist has said the economic situation in the eurozone was “completely 
different” to the US and UK, as he reinforced the pushback against market expectations of  interest rate rises next 
year. “This period of inflation is very unusual and temporary and not a sign of a chronic situation,” he argued.
Latest for the UK and Europe
European gas prices surged this morning after there was little sign that Russia was preparing to  increase 
supplies, as promised by Russian president Vladimir Putin. The European benchmark price jumped as much as 10 
per cent to above €80 per megawatt hour, while the UK benchmark for December delivery rose 6 per cent to £2.03 
per therm. Russian oil and gas tycoon Mikhail Fridman has told the FT that moving too fast from gas to renewable 
energy was “  dangerous and irresponsible”.
Labour shortages in the UK are now affecting the  analysis of X-rays. A lack of radiologists means scans are being 
sent for analysis as far afield as Australia as NHS waiting lists lengthen. 
Discrepancies in how UK growth is recorded will be laid bare this week, with the publication of monthly and 
quarterly GDP figures. Economics editor  Chris Giles explains.
A record number of new coronavirus infections have confirmed that Germany is now firmly in the grip of a  fourth 
wave of the pandemic. The country’s health system is better able to cope than it was last winter, however, because 
a relatively large proportion of the population is now fully vaccinated.
Spain’s recovery from the pandemic is  lagging behind its eurozone peers, writes Madrid correspondent Daniel 
Dombey. Although it has some of the lowest coronavirus infection rates in Europe, it is being held back by weak 
household spending, rising energy prices and a delay in the use of EU recovery money. Spain is one of the fund’s 
main beneficiaries, with €140bn in grants and loans over the next six years.
Global latest
Revival of transatlantic flights brings new hope to travel industry
The UN’s World Food Programme said  soaring food prices were driving acute hunger to record levels, with 45m 
people on the edge of famine. The increases have been driven by a combination of poor weather, high demand, 
supply chain fallout from the pandemic and rocketing transportation costs.
Officials in China have warned of a “complex and grave challenge this winter and next spring”, as new coronavirus 
cases  continue to spread in the broadest outbreak since the early days of the pandemic. New government 
restrictions have contributed to a slowdown in consumer spending just as energy shortages bite and problems in 
the property sector intensify. Chief foreign affairs commentator Gideon Rachman says Beijing’s zero-Covidpolicy 
of self-isolation is  damaging international business.
Argentina’s ruling Peronist party is the subject of anger over its handling of the economy and the pandemic ahead 
of  congressional elections on Sunday. Despite having one of Latin America’s longest Covid-19 lockdowns, the 
country has failed to prevent a death toll that is almost as bad as neighbouring Brazil’s, when adjusted for 
population size.
Need to know: business
Sectors with complex supply chains have been particularly badly hit by the crisis. The $164bn paint market is a 
prime example. Customers have been hit with  soaring prices as producers try and cover the rising costs of raw 
materials, while also dealing with rising demand during the lockdown DIY boom and severe weather disruption at 
the petrochemical plants that produce the raw materials. 
Simply surviving the pandemic intact was a challenge for most companies. But, for others, Covid-19 turned out to 
be a catalyst for growth and reinvention, writes chief business commentator  Brooke Masters. Read our  Tech 
Champions report detailing how European business has used technology to pivot to new ways of working amid the 
pandemic.
As US employers scramble to clear backlogs at the nation’s ports and warehouses, the  demand for night shift jobs 
has exploded. Understaffing on late shifts and forced overtime have become key factors in the recent wave of 
strikes that activists have dubbed “striketober”.
It’s boom time for divorce lawyers as rich New Yorkers use the end of isolation as an appropriate time to  end their 
marriages. We talk to Robert Stephan Cohen, who has represented Melinda French Gates in her split from Bill 
Gates as well as being retained by the wife of John Paulson, the hedge fund manager who made $20bn betting 
against the housing market before the 2008 financial crisis.
The World of Work
The debate over whether US companies should be forced to impose “vaccine or test” orders on their workers 
intensified after a court ruling halted the government’s plans over “  grave statutory and constitutional issues”.
Labour shortages have given workers a stronger hand in dealing with their employers, but what’s the best way of  
getting a pay rise? Grace Lordan, a professor in behavioural science, details six pay-enhancing “life hacks”. 
The nature of celebrity changed during the pandemic, as stars began to be viewed as frivolous rather than 
aspirational. Companies are now more likely to feature actual workers in their social media, but the tactic can 
backfire: employees may end up promoting themselves as much as the brand and are  liable to spin out of control, 
writes columnist Emma Jacobs. 
Get the latest worldwide picture with our  vaccine tracker
And finally...
Q: What do Proust’s bed, Dickens’s armchair and a jar of Brylcreem have in common? A: They all feature in the 
new FT series:  The home in 50 objects from around the world.
Revival of transatlantic flights brings new hope to travel industry
Load-Date: November 8, 2021
End of Document
UK airlines to increase flights to Greece in anticipation of tourism boom
UK airlines to increase flights to Greece in anticipation of tourism boom
 
FT.com
November 7, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 533 words
Byline: Alice Hancock and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Airlines are preparing to lay on hundreds of thousands more seats between the UK and Greece next summer than 
they did in 2019 in the hope of a boom in foreign holidays as travel restrictions ease.
Jet2 and easyJet are among carriers that have added capacity to their pre-pandemic flight schedule for 2022. Jet2 
said it had 1m more seats on sale between Greece and the UK than it had offered in 2019, while easyJet has plans 
to add about 500,000 more flight tickets to its schedule subject to space being made available at airports.
“Having met most of the tour operators and airline companies here in the UK . . . we are very, very optimistic about 
2022,” said Vassilis Kikilias, the Greek tourism minister, speaking to the Financial Times at the World Travel Market 
conference in London.
Kikilias said that Greece was expecting 35 per cent more tourists from the UK next year than it had in 2021, 
equalling the record level of about 3.6m in 2019. He forecast that the “sun, sea and sand” season would start earlier 
than usual, in March.
The agreements between the airlines and the Greek government, with the tourism ministry helping to secure airport 
slots for planes in return for guarantees of inbound flights, are an indication of the travel industry’s faith in a strong 
bounceback in foreign travel next year.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, has said he expects the recovery to hit full swing by next summer, 
when his airline will be operating more than 500 new routes across Europe.
UK airlines to increase flights to Greece in anticipation of tourism boom
“We are looking at very substantial growth next year,” he said. 
Several tour operators including Tui, Europe’s largest, have said that reservations for holidays in summer 2022 
have already surpassed the level of bookings at the equivalent point in 2019 with consumers choosing to spend 
savings from lockdown on higher grade accommodation and resorts.
Greece was one of the first European countries to reopen to international tourists following the first lockdowns in 
2020. Tourism-related income makes up about 25 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product.
The UK is Greece’s second-largest inbound market after Germany but tight UK restrictions on travel this year forced 
many to  holiday at home.
Kikilias, who was appointed to the tourism ministry in September having previously been health minister, said the 
country had taken a “calculated risk” in opening up early but that it had paid off with greater confidence from 
consumers that Greece was safe to travel to.
The government installed extra doctors in hotels, added health service workers to Greece’s popular island 
destinations and used €320m of EU funding to upgrade its tourism sector, the minister said.
Greece had targeted 50 per cent of 2019’s passenger numbers and income in 2021, equivalent to between €5bn 
and €6bn in tourism-related spending, but the government said it had already reached 65 per cent of 2019’s income 
levels so far this year.
Wizz Air, Lufthansa and Ryanair are among airlines to have reported their first profitable quarter since the start of 
the pandemic in the three months to the end of September. IAG, the owner of British Airways, has forecast a return 
to profit in the second or third quarter of next year. 
Load-Date: November 7, 2021
End of Document
IAG: Come fly with me (please)
IAG: Come fly with me (please)
 
FT.com
November 5, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 356 words
Body
The post-pandemic return to profitability is a long haul for IAG. While low-cost carrier Ryanair  rang up profits in the 
third quarter, the BA owner reported an operating loss of €485m and is guiding for €3bn for the full year.
IAG’s portfolio of incumbent airlines are more skewed to long haul and business travellers. As borders creak open 
— in Australia, Thailand and the US, where foreign nationals can  travel freely from Monday — at least some of that 
business will return. That trend is already in evidence, with booking levels to and from North America almost back at 
pre-Covid levels last week. Across all routes, passenger capacity doubled quarter-on-quarter to 43 per cent of 2019 
levels and is expected to reach 60 per cent in the current quarter.
Financially, it is in stronger shape with €10.6bn of liquidity — up from €8.1bn at end-December and a far cry from 
September 2020 when it was forced into launching a deeply discounted €2.75bn rights issue. That reflects positive 
operating cash flow in the latest quarter. Assuming bookings continue to return, UBS sees debt levels starting to 
whittle back from the second half of next year.
Still, it is the industry’s quiddity that it just cannot catch a break. Passengers are returning but so too are inflated oil 
costs. IAG’s average full prices for the first nine months of the year were up 40 per cent, admittedly from the Covid-
depressed year-ago figure. Rising interest rates bode ill for a company with net debt of €12.4bn, although much of 
this is currently fixed.
IAG’s performance lags its peers, partly a reflection of its exposure to the UK and US which both had heavy travel 
restrictions during the pandemic. Over the past year its negative ebitda margins are roughly four times those of Air 
France-KLM and Deutsche Lufthansa (both of which received state bailouts). Revenue shrinkage over the period is 
likewise much heftier.
IAG: Come fly with me (please)
On an EV/forward ebitda basis shares trade above European peers. Unperturbed, investors — initially bearish — 
ended the morning session pushing the price higher. That leaves a lot riding on full seats as grounded planes return 
to the skies.
Load-Date: November 5, 2021
End of Document
BA owner IAG banks on reopening of transatlantic routes to revive business
BA owner IAG banks on reopening of transatlantic routes to revive business
 
FT.com
November 5, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 607 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
British Airways owner IAG is banking on the reopening of transatlantic travel to revive its business after warning it 
will lose another €3bn this year.
The group, which owns airlines including Iberia, Aer Lingus and Vueling, has racked up huge losses over the past 
18 months while it has been shut out of its most lucrative north Atlantic market, in effect closed since early 2020. 
But Luis Gallego, IAG’s chief executive, said  Monday’s reopening of the US border to foreign nationals represents 
“a pivotal moment for our industry”.
IAG’s airlines plan to increase their flight schedules to 60 per cent of normal levels this quarter in response, up from 
the 40 per cent flown over the summer, which are typically the industry’s busiest months.
Looking further ahead, Gallego expects capacity on the north Atlantic routes to reach 100 per cent of pre-pandemic 
levels by next summer, which he said should allow IAG to finally return to profit. 
Transatlantic bookings on BA have risen 167 per cent since the US announced the reopening of its borders in 
September, with planes next week expected to be nearly full as people take advantage of the easing in restrictions. 
The airline’s boss Sean Doyle said the “very encouraging” bookings included early signs of a rebound in high-
yielding business travellers, which are crucial to the business. 
BA owner IAG banks on reopening of transatlantic routes to revive business
“We are seeing a strong recovery as markets open up,” Doyle said. 
IAG has grown into an aviation powerhouse since it was formed through the merger of BA and Iberia a decade ago, 
and has built its business around its lucrative long-haul routes. 
Analysts say that unlike low-cost rivals Ryanair and Wizz Air, which both returned to profit over the summer through 
flying across Europe, IAG will not be able to recover until its huge network is back up and running. 
IAG’s recovery this year has also lagged behind fellow flag-carriers Lufthansa, which reported a small profit in the 
third quarter, and Air France, which guided to positive full-year earnings.
Unlike those two continental carriers, IAG was not offered a government bailout during the crisis, although it has 
received state-backed loans through BA. 
IAG instead tapped the debt and equity markets to build up a firewall of cash to see it through the crisis, and had 
access to €10.6bn of liquidity by the end of September.
As a consequence, like much of the airline industry, the company now has a huge debt burden to service. 
IAG reported €12.4bn in net debt by the end of September, up from €7.5bn at the end of 2019. Still, Gallego ruled 
out turning to shareholders for fresh capital unless “something extraordinary happens”. 
The airline saw positive operating cash flow for the first time since the start of the pandemic in the third quarter, but 
still reported a €485m operating loss before exceptional items, compared with the €1.3bn lost the previous year.
The group forecasts a loss of approximately €3bn for the full year, slightly worse than analysts had forecast but an 
improvement on the €4.3bn lost last year.
As IAG’s losses mount, Gallego also warned Heathrow airport that he would reconsider his airlines’ footprints at the 
hub if it raises its landing fees post-pandemic.
The Civil Aviation Authority has blocked Heathrow’s efforts to nearly double the amount it charges airlines to land at 
the hub, but has proposed a 50 per cent increase over the next five years.
“If we are going to have an inefficient hub, it is going to be difficult to invest in that hub,” he said. 
IAG shares reversed early losses to trade 3 per cent higher to 175.52p by early afternoon, but are still trading about 
two-thirds below their pre-pandemic levels.
Load-Date: November 5, 2021
End of Document
Airlines are still struggling for take-off
Airlines are still struggling for take-off
 
FT.com
November 4, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 603 words
Byline: The editorial board
Body
The airline industry passed a milestone this week: low-cost European carriers Ryanair and Wizz Air both 
announced their first profitable quarter since before the pandemic. Yet both still expected to have to cut prices to 
spur demand in the winter months; Ryanair  cut its earnings forecast and Wizz warned it would  plunge back into 
losses. Most large US airlines, meanwhile, still lost money before federal pandemic aid in the third quarter and 
reined back expectations into the first half of next year. That so much of the industry managed to survive the 
pandemic, when much of the global fleet was grounded, is an  achievement in itself. But returning to anything like 
pre-pandemic levels will be a long haul.
Accommodative capital markets and government largesse kept the industry on life support through the dark days of 
Covid. Although the Delta variant held back recovery this summer, especially in flights to and from the UK, the EU’s 
digital Covid pass helped to support European demand. The US domestic market, meanwhile, was surprisingly 
strong. Restrictions are still being eased. The US will reopen for travellers from 33 countries, including the UK and 
EU, next Monday — marking the return of lucrative transatlantic routes. 
Yet though this may release some pent-up demand for flights for holidays and to see loved ones, restrictions are 
being eased just as airlines go into the northern hemisphere winter — when they struggle, at the best of times, to 
make money. And the supply chain disruptions and staffing squeeze that are already weighing on broader 
economic growth are causing particular problems for the airline industry. 
Jet fuel prices have more than doubled over the past year. The tight labour market is making life especially difficult 
for US carriers, many of which encouraged staff to take early retirement or voluntary leave during the pandemic. 
Airlines are still struggling for take-off
Now, worker shortages ranging from pilots and cabin staff to baggage handlers and check-in workers is making it 
hard for carriers to deal with the bounceback in demand. 
US carriers have recently had to  cancel hundreds of flights as weather disruptions caused cascaded problems 
thanks to shortages of spare crews and capacity. Similar problems occurred in the summer when demand first 
sprang back. They have left industry executives puzzling over how many seats they should sell in the holiday period 
from Thanksgiving to New Year — and passengers hesitating over travel plans.
An added pressure for the industry is that higher-margin business travel is still recovering less quickly than leisure 
traffic. Uncertainty over whether business travel will ever get back to where it was before Covid, with executives 
learning to hold meetings by Zoom instead, makes long-range planning especially difficult. Although industry 
executives are confident leisure demand will rebound strongly, growing consciousness over climate change may yet 
change consumer habits.
In Europe, the pandemic has reinforced a two-tier industry, which before the pandemic saw a few profitable airlines 
such as the low-cost carriers and BA owner IAG at the top. The US industry has consolidated around a few 
successful airlines through mergers, but European governments have been keen to protect their carriers, many of 
them now heavily indebted, making consolidation hard. UK and EU regulators are weighing when to reimpose “use 
it or lose it” rules which force airlines to either use their slots or hand them back. These have been suspended since 
the start of Covid. Nearly 18 months into the crisis, letting competitive forces loose again could help to rationalise 
the market.
Load-Date: November 5, 2021
End of Document
Wizz warns of return to losses, despite first profit since start of pandemic
Wizz warns of return to losses, despite first profit since start of pandemic
 
FT.com
November 4, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 497 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Wizz Air warned on Thursday it would be plunged back into losses this winter, just as it announced its first quarterly 
profit since the start of the pandemic. 
The airline said it would have to cut ticket prices to encourage people to fly this winter, which was likely to force it 
back into the red after reporting an operating profit of €57m in the three months to the end of September.
It is a blow for the London-listed airline, coming shortly after passenger numbers had returned to near normal levels 
during the busiest weeks over the summer.
Despite joining a small band of European airlines that have returned to profit over the summer, including Ryanair 
and Lufthansa, chief executive József Váradi warned of a difficult winter ahead.
He said he expected to lower prices to “stimulate demand” for flying. Taken alongside volatile fuel and currency 
prices, this was expected to push the airline back to an operating loss of €200m in the current quarter. Losses could 
continue into early next year.
Rival Ryanair also cut its earnings forecast this week and said it would need to use lower prices to help support 
demand. 
Varadi is marshalling Wizz through the crisis with an aggressive expansion plan, and has been opening new bases 
and taking on aircraft in a challenge to Ryanair’s dominance of the low-cost European skies.
Wizz warns of return to losses, despite first profit since start of pandemic
“We are still in an investment mode, and that creates some degree of inefficiency because we are not yet fully 
operational at full capacity . . . obviously we are leaving money on the table from an operational perspective,” 
Varadi told the Financial Times.
“It is a bit of short term pain for long term gain. But we believe all these issues we are facing in the short term are 
temporary in nature,” he added. 
Earlier this year, Wizz made an unsuccessful bid to buy UK carrier easyJet, which would have given it instant 
access to flight paths across western Europe at a stroke, and Varadi has  been offered a £100m bonus if he can 
rapidly grow the airline. 
Wizz has pledged to grow from its current fleet of about 150 aircraft to 500 by the end of the decade. 
The results fell short of analysts’ expectations, but shares were unaffected, trading sideways on Thursday morning. 
They have risen 35 per cent over the past 12 months to trade above their pre-pandemic levels.
“In our view, the trade-off of higher costs today versus higher earnings in the future is worth making,” said Alex 
Irving, an aviation analyst at Bernstein. 
Wizz posted a net loss of €120.9m for the six months to the end of September, half the amount it lost in the 
previous year. The airline reported a profit of €371.5m in the equivalent period in 2019. 
Wizz carried 12.5m passengers in this six month period — its fiscal first half, with nearly 10m of them over the final 
three months of the period.
Revenue rose 87 per cent to €880m, with its planes 75 per cent full. This is an improvement on last year, but still 
well short of the more than 95 per cent load factor achieved in 2019.  
Load-Date: November 5, 2021
End of Document
UK consumer watchdog frustrated at lack of bite
UK consumer watchdog frustrated at lack of bite
 
FT.com
November 2, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 905 words
Byline: Kate Beioley in London
Body
British Airways and Ryanair customers who had turned to the UK competition regulator in the hope it would force 
the airlines to refund them for flights they were prevented from taking by pandemic lockdown restrictions were left 
disappointed last month.
The Competition and Markets Authority, which launched the probe last December, dropped the case after  
concluding it was “insufficiently certain” it would win in the courts. The watchdog had previously said the two airlines 
might have breached consumer law by offering vouchers or rebooked flights rather than cash refunds.
At the time, Andrea Coscelli, the CMA chief executive, said the uncertainty meant he could “no longer justify the 
further expense of public money”. The authority’s decision and approach to the case highlighted its limits as a 
consumer protection watchdog, which often require it to resort to the courts to fulfil that role.
The airline refund case was just one of many issues that unhappy customers complained to the watchdog about 
during the pandemic. These ranged from refusals to pay refunds for cancelled holidays to private Covid-19 travel 
test providers overcharging or failing to deliver results on time, if at all. 
Within days of the first lockdown last March, the complaints began pouring in, hitting a peak of 15,000 a week. 
The regulator, which has no consumer-related fining powers, has at times seemed just as frustrated as the UK 
public. It has been waiting more than two years for the authority that would enable it to crack down on malpractice 
UK consumer watchdog frustrated at lack of bite
and it is still unclear when ministers might finally legislate. The government closed its consultation on these new 
powers last month.
Coscelli told the Financial Times that the proposals to bolster its toolkit, would “help us respond more quickly and 
effectively to emerging problems”, adding: “We know there is more that can be done to ensure stronger protections 
and better outcomes for consumers.”
He is looking to secure similar powers to those the CMA has in the competition arena, a role it has expanded post-
Brexit when it replaced the European Commission as the UK’s highest antitrust authority. The watchdog can fine 
companies up to 10 per cent of global turnover for any breach of competition law.
“If we stay close to [the proposals] as they are now, it is a game-changer on the consumer-protection side,” Coscelli 
explained.
“The CMA’s main gripe is that it has never had the fining powers and the ability to run a [consumer protection] case 
through to a final decision with penalties,” said Becket McGrath, competition partner at Euclid Law. “The CMA 
wants to have the equivalent set of [consumer] powers as its competition powers that it can use to effectively take 
enforcement action against consumer law practices which evolve at a [fast] rate.”
This has left the UK with a consumer watchdog with few teeth, despite the fact the CMA has a statutory duty to 
promote competition for the benefit of consumers and can pursue businesses that infringe consumer laws through 
unfair trading terms, for example, or misleading prices. But its only recourse is through the courts, which can turn in 
to a protracted and costly process.
Elsewhere in Europe, the picture is mixed. In the EU, consumer protection is enforced nationally with regulators in 
some member states more powerful than their counterparts elsewhere in the bloc. 
The Netherlands, France and Poland, for instance, can  levy fines on companies of up to 10 per cent of annual 
turnover for unfair consumer practices. In Italy, the national competition watchdog  can fine companies up to €5m 
for that.
The CMA’s lack of bite was further underlined in August. Ministers bruised by blanket press coverage of poor 
service and high charges from providers of compulsory Covid-19 travel tests — a market the government created 
— ordered the watchdog to  conduct a “rapid high-level review”.
Unable to levy fines against providers who were breaking the law or to act swiftly to force them to comply, the CMA 
opened enforcement cases against several. But its limited powers meant there would be no clampdown during the 
busy summer holiday period. Instead it urged the government to regulate more effectively the market it had created. 
The fining powers it needed were first  promised in 2019. The government renewed that pledge last year but has so 
far not committed to when it might act despite the consultation having closed. The Department for Business, Energy 
and Industrial Strategy told the FT in a statement it would do so “when parliamentary time allow[ed].”
Nevertheless, the CMA has used its limited tools to some effect during the pandemic. In October last year, it  
secured £203m in refunds for Virgin Holiday customers as well as a series of promises from other package-holiday 
operators to repay customers, without having to pursue them through the courts. 
But not everyone waiting on refunds for cancelled holidays has been so fortunate. Just over a week after dropping 
the case against BA and Ryanair, the CMA  announced it was taking the owner of Teletext Holidays to court over 
slow progress in repaying customers for package deals cancelled as a result of the pandemic.
Coscelli made his frustration clear ahead of launching last month’s legal action against Teletext, pointing out it was 
“the kind of issue that could be resolved at pace and met with fines” if the CMA received the consumer powers 
promised by the government.
UK consumer watchdog frustrated at lack of bite
Load-Date: November 3, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair : outbound from London with profits-engine burning again
Ryanair: outbound from London with profits-engine burning again
 
FT.com
November 1, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 319 words
Body
Half-term holidays are back and so — briefly — are airline profits. Ryanair, whose low-cost, short-haul business 
chimes with current demand, posted a €225m profit for the three months to the end of September. 
Load factor was “consistently above” 80 per cent in the quarter. The airline, which at the height of the pandemic 
was burning through €200m a week, generated €832m of free cash flow in the first half. That marks a big reversal 
on outflows of €1.3bn in the same period last year.
There is no change in Ryanair’s direction of travel when it comes to ownership. In the wake of Brexit, the Irish 
airline has been nudging away non-EU investors, notably British ones, to comply with EU rules. It is now 
considering  dropping its secondary listing in London, in another blow to the dwindling stock market.
Ryanair is keener on Boeing’s “Gamechanger” aircraft. These are designed to be good for the environment and 
Ryanair’s bottom line. It will bolster its fleet with 210 of these jets over the next five years. These fit in 4 per cent 
more seats and consume 16 per cent less fuel. 
Ryanair is guiding analysts to a full-year loss of between €100m and €200m. It knows that to sell more seats it will 
need to discount tickets heavily. In the latest six-month period, the average revenue per customer fell by a third 
year on year to €33. 
Even before the pandemic, overcapacity was pushing down prices, resulting in average fares of €37 in 2019. At the 
same time, it faces rising costs on the 20 per cent of fuel which is unhedged over the next three quarters.
Ryanair : outbound from London with profits-engine burning again
Shares, up more than a third in the past year, are the priciest in the low-cost universe as a multiple of sales. 
Ryanair has come through the pandemic in tolerable shape. That would make a delisting in London particularly 
galling to investors there. But at their current price, the shares look expensive, particularly when seats on Ryanair 
flights are so cheap.
Load-Date: November 1, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair considers London delisting to comply with Brexit
Ryanair considers London delisting to comply with Brexit
 
FT.com
November 1, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 540 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Philip Stafford
Body
Ryanair is preparing to bring to an end its 20-year listing on the London Stock Exchange to comply with EU rules 
following Brexit as it announced it had swung back to profit for the first time since 2019.  
The Irish airline said on Monday it has begun a review into whether to give up its London quote, which is a 
secondary listing, to focus on its primary market of Dublin. 
“I think it is an inevitability post-Brexit,” chief executive Michael O’Leary said. “In my personal view, I think we will 
probably delist sometime in the next six months.”
The revelation came as Ryanair reported a net profit of €225m in the three months to the end of September, its first 
since the last quarter of 2019, the period before coronavirus disruption swept through aviation. 
O’Leary said the issue over its listing was down to strict EU rules that insist EU airlines are majority owned and 
controlled by nationals from within the bloc, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein.
Ryanair barred non-EU individuals from buying shares in the company and extended this to institutions and 
individuals in the UK at the start of this year. O’Leary said this meant the airline was 100 per cent controlled by EU 
shareholders, but added “we are not yet 100 per cent EU-owned”. 
“We would have had, pre-Brexit, about 20 per cent of the stock held or controlled here in the UK. And we need 
reduce that, or be seen to be taking steps to reduce that, over the next couple of years,” he told the Financial 
Times. 
Ryanair considers London delisting to comply with Brexit
The UK and EU agreed to explore liberalising airline ownership rules when they signed their trade deal in 
December, but have made no visible progress on the issue. Instead, O’Leary said he expected Brussels to clamp 
down on airlines in the coming months.
“The EU authorities, I think particularly the French or the Germans, are going to take a very strong view on EU 
ownership. Particularly with a dispute between the French and the UK,” he said. 
The return to profit announced on Monday underscored Ryanair’s  rapid recovery from the coronavirus crisis. Still, 
O’Leary expects to cut ticket prices to stimulate demand over the traditionally lean winter months.
“I think the pricing would be a little bit more difficult in the winter but the volumes are very strong,” he said. 
Ryanair has also left open the possibility of a new aircraft order with Boeing, although O’Leary said he would wait 
until the US company dropped its prices. 
For the six months to the end of September, the company’s financial first-half, Ryanair lost €48m, down from a 
€411m loss the previous year. In the same period in 2019, the airline reported a profit of €1.3bn.
Ryanair carried 39.1m passengers in the six months, up from 17.1m the previous year. Revenue rose 83 per cent to 
€2.15bn, faster than operating costs, which were up 60 per cent to €2.2bn. 
However, the group forecast a full-year loss of between €100m to €200m, slightly worse than analysts had forecast.
The airline’s shares were up 2 per cent to €17.01 by mid-morning. 
Also on Monday, British Airways announced it has secured a £1bn UK-government backed commercial loan. 
The new financing, which will only be drawn down if needed, boosts available liquidity at owner IAG, which stood at 
€10.6bn at the end of September.
Load-Date: November 1, 2021
End of Document
Jes Staley leaves Barclays to fight Epstein probe findings
Jes Staley leaves Barclays to fight Epstein probe findings
 
FT.com
November 1, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 752 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Barclays boss Jes Staley is stepping down in the wake of a regulatory investigation into his characterisation to the 
bank of his relationship with disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein “and the subsequent description of that 
relationship in Barclays’ response to the FCA”. 
Barclays and Staley were told of the preliminary conclusions of the investigation by the Financial Conduct Authority 
and the Prudential Regulation Authority on Friday night. In a statement this morning the bank said that “in view of 
those conclusions, and Staley’s intention to contest them”, Barclays and Staley had agreed he would step down as 
chief executive and as director of Barclays. 
CS Venkatakrishnan, known as Venkat, will be Staley’s successor. He takes over as Barclays CEO as of today. 
An ex-JP Morgan banker, he joined Barclays in 2016 as chief risk officer, rising to head of global markets last year. 
Barclays says it will pay Staley 12 months’ notice — £2.4m in cash and shares and a £120,000 payment for his 
pension — and repatriation costs consistent with the terms of its directors’ remuneration policy. Venkat will get 
£2.7m in fixed pay, half in cash an half in shares, plus £135,000 pension, a discretionary bonus of up to 93 per cent 
of salary and an award under the long term incentive plan of up to 140 per cent of salary. 
Briefly
Ryanair reported a loss of €48m for the first half of its financial year, roughly 90 per cent less than the same period 
last year. Customers in the six months to September more than doubled, while revenues increased 83 per cent and 
Jes Staley leaves Barclays to fight Epstein probe findings
costs only 63 per cent. But the airline warned the outlook for this winter was challenging, with bookings being made 
late and requiring “continuing price stimulation”. The airline also said it was considering delisting from the LSE after 
the proportion of its shares traded on the exchange “reduced materially” during 2021. Its primary listing is in Dublin, 
while it also trades on Nasdaq.
The audit watchdog has fined Grant Thornton more than £700,000 (£1.3m before adjustments) for its work on  
collapsed outsourcer Interserve. 
Glencore has defended the pay for its chief executive after suffering a shareholder rebellion at its annual meeting 
earlier this year. Companies are required to report back to investors when more than 20 per cent vote against. 
Glencore has said it isn’t changing its pay policy, because “no shareholder called for the current arrangements to be 
replaced”. Instead they asked for “transparent disclosure” of how the pay policy works in its first six months.
ProCook has published the price range for its IPO. It will be valued at between £150m and £200m. And Land 
Securities has announced a small deal, under which it will buy developer U+I for £190m, giving it access to a 
“significant pipeline of mixed-use development schemes”. 
Beyond the Square Mile
Snap, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube lost out on almost $10bn in revenues in the second half of this year after 
Apple changed iPhone privacy settings to ask users for permission before the apps tracked users’ behaviour so 
they could serve them personalised ads. Most users opted out, so advertisers have switched their spending to 
Android phone users and Apple’s own ad business,  Patrick McGee reports from San Francisco.
Saudi Aramco reported its highest quarterly earnings since listing its shares in 2019,  Tom Wilson reports. But the 
world’s biggest oil exporter held its dividend at $18.8bn despite generating free cash flow of $28.7bn. 
And shares in Nomura fell almost 8 per cent on Monday, as markets reacted to an after-hours announcement that 
a surprise writedown had knocked the bank’s profits down by 95 per cent,  William Langley reports from Hong 
Kong. The company said on Friday night that the $345m charge was related to Nomura’s US-based transactions 
prior to the 2007-2009 global financial crisis, but did not provide further details. The charge comes a quarter after 
the Japanese bank took a hit from exposure to Archegos Capital Management. 
Essential comment before you go
Lex editor Jonathan Guthrie explores  the trend for “TradFi” (aka City) firms investing in digital asset expertise off 
the back of the Bitcoin boom. To give you a taste, he says: “most regulated businesses are staffing up in areas that 
do not involve trading unregulated cryptos or giving investment advice. They resemble the nice kid who avoids 
inhaling when passed a joint at a party”.
Do sign up for the excellent and always entertaining Lex Newsletter  here, I highly recommend it.
Load-Date: November 3, 2021
End of Document
Ballymaloe, home of the first family of food
Ballymaloe, home of the first family of food
 
FT.com
October 29, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1688 words
Byline: David Prior. Photographer Cliodhna Prendergast
Body
You’re very welcome” is the way guests are greeted at Ballymaloe, the sprawling east Cork compound of the 
Allens, Ireland’s first family of food and farming. The words might be delivered as you cross the threshold of the 
country-house hotel, or in the drawing room where you will find a pint extended. Or in the famed restaurant where 
Myrtle Allen, the late matriarch, established a kitchen in 1964 that is credited with taking the country from a land of 
culinary cringe to one with an elevated food culture recognised worldwide.
The greeting is the same for the students who arrive at the  Ballymaloe Cookery School to study with the 
ebullient Darina Allen, Myrtle’s daughter-in-law, now in her 70s, or her brother, cookbook author Rory O’Connell. So 
too for the day-trippers eager to visit Ballymaloe’s jersey cows, chicken coops and heirloom-variety orchards, its 
quaint tea house, stocked-to-the-brim shop or bakery. “You’re very welcome”, without fail. It may seem an 
innocuous detail, but it goes to the heart of the Allens’ efforts to bring people into their world. 
Countless column inches have been written about Ballymaloe and the Allens; adding to them might seem an 
exercise in nostalgia. But when the pandemic struck it was a gut punch for a family that runs not one but three of 
the most affected kinds of industries – a hotel, a restaurant and a school along with a farm. Many, including myself, 
were left asking, “What will they do?”
Yet as we’ve emerged, so have they. And the paradigms around how we want to be nourished (and by whom) 
have once again returned us towards the Allens’ vision. Ballymaloe offers equal parts Irish country-house 
hospitality, enterprise, energy and culinary education. It is this combination that has drawn the food world here, both 
old-school and new, for decades. 
Ballymaloe, home of the first family of food
The first night I spent at  Ballymaloe, in 2012, was supposed to be a Saturday but instead was a Sunday, thanks to 
pounding Irish rain and Ryanair. It had long been on my list of places to visit, and I was devastated to miss the 
famous Saturday-night dinner in the dining room of Myrtle Allen (who was then in her 90s). Thinking the “Sunday 
Buffet” I had to settle for would be some arrangement of leftovers, I arrived in the dining room disheartened. There I 
found a table heaving with food that on first glance seemed somewhat dated: pretty but slightly fussy garnishes of 
flowers, platters of vol-au-vents and piped eggs laid out on a chequered tablecloth.
On closer inspection, though, everything shifted. The whole sides of salmon were wild Irish, not Atlantic. The rare 
roast beef was from the local herds. Soda breads, of earthy hues, were baked in-house, served with hand-churned 
Jersey cream butter. Salads were greens just picked from the garden, enlivened with foraged pennywort. 
Handmade fish pâtés were somehow startlingly modern; the charcuterie was all of Irish provenance, lined up 
alongside cheeses with Irish names as varied as their sizes and perfumes.
The unpretentiousness of the offering belied a deep sophistication. It was not only the food you want to eat as a 
traveller – entirely of place – but also a pure representation of an Irish food renaissance. There was not a hint of 
“chef suggests this” but a spirit of conviviality, one that saw three generations of Allens eating among the guests 
with no trace of performance. Alone, a complete unknown to them at the time, I was told to pull up a chair. 
“That is the particular power of the Allens, and Darina: the extraordinary ease with which they bring people to the 
table. That’s what they have taught me – ‘Oh, there is always a little more space, just come here, sit down,’” says  
Alice Waters. Like many chefs and food writers, the Chez Panisse owner-chef and activist can’t quite recall the 
moment that Ballymaloe came onto her radar; it had always somehow been there. “I’d always heard of this place in 
Ireland doing extraordinary things with local producers, sourcing food in the right ways, making simple delicious 
things,” she says. She first visited 25 years ago, and returns not only because it is one of her preferred holidays but 
because of their shared Slow Food philosophy.
“It was the kind of place about which you’d have a tear-out stuck to your fridge, so I could never in my life believe 
they would ask me to come and teach at the school,” says  Maggie Beer. Beer, who is considered to be a kind of 
Australian Julia Child, had for many years a pheasant farm and iconic restaurant that championed the regional 
produce of the Barossa Valley outside Adelaide in the same spirit as the Allens have done in east Cork. “The 
buckets and baskets of produce that would come into the kitchen… I never experienced the largesse of such a 
garden,” she recalls of her time working as one of the cookery school’s teachers. “I remember the milk was pale 
and warm, and the vegetables had just been plucked from the ground.” Ballymaloe, she says, reassured her that 
what she was doing on the other side of the world was worthy.
Waters, Beer and Allen are contemporaries, and share much the same philosophy. Each has played a vital role in 
her respective country – Waters as an activist, Beer as a cook, Allen as a sort of headmistress. Allen started the 
Ballymaloe Cookery School in 1983 and still teaches, sometimes until late in the evening. Until the pandemic she 
was instructing up to 60 students per day (it’s now reopened at a more limited capacity). 
“The first recipe we were taught was the recipe for compost,” says  Jess Shadbolt of King, one of New York’s most 
acclaimed restaurants. Shadbolt and her partner  Clare de Boer (also an ex-student) are part of a more recent crop 
of Ballymaloe Cookery School alumni; this spring, together with a third partner, Annie Shi, they will open their next 
venture in Rockefeller Center. “I often say to aspiring chefs, ‘If you want to go and be a chef right away, go and 
work in a kitchen; but if you want to open up many pathways and really get to know food and understand where it 
comes from, go to Ballymaloe.’” As much as any technical skill, Shadbolt says, what she took away from her 
experience in Ballymaloe’s educational surrounds was the importance of “cook[ing] with joy”.
Jordan Bourke is an Irish food stylist, cookbook author and Korean food expert who worked for several years for  
Skye Gyngell of London’s  Spring restaurant. His Ballymaloe experience was similarly joyous, but instead of 
adopting the recipes and provenance of his homeland, he has adapted the Allens’ philosophy of food and applied it 
to Korean cooking. He is married to the South Korean fashion designer  Rejina Pyo and the couple worked together 
on a cookbook, Our Korean Kitchen. “I was working in Seoul, and when I came back from that experience and we 
ended up writing the book, I talked to Darina often,” he recalls. “At the time she didn’t have much knowledge of 
Ballymaloe, home of the first family of food
Korean food; it totally blew her mind and she became obsessed with ferments – and obviously kimchi. I came and 
taught a demo course at Ballymaloe, and within the space of about a year her knowledge of what I had spent eight 
years trying to learn was already totally accomplished. She just throws herself into it. She had read every single 
book, she’d spoken to everyone. It is not at all just Darina; it is Rory, it is the entire family. They have a relentless 
curiosity that keeps the institution young and vibrant.” 
“They bring the world to Ireland and Ireland to the world,” says Skye Gyngell, who calls Rory O’Connell a dear 
friend. Gyngell has taught many times at the Cookery School and was a guest speaker at the inaugural Ballymaloe 
Litfest, a food and cookbook festival that ran from 2013 to 2017. “I scarcely know a more elegant cook than Rory, 
and I’ll never forget the dinner at the first Litfest,” she adds. “It was just an astonishing group of people. There were 
more brilliantly written recipes in that room than I think there have ever been in any other.” 
In its time, Litfest was considered the most prestigious of food writing festivals, and every big-name author and 
columnist attended – from doyennes such as Middle Eastern specialist Claudia Roden and Indian specialist Madhur 
Jaffrey to then 92-year-old Mexican-food authority Diana Kennedy or more modern stars like  René Redzepi. 
Continues Gyngell: “From the outside it can seem quite quaint and old-fashioned what they do, but that festival was 
so utterly modern; they were talking about all the issues that we are talking about now, and with the feeling that we 
are all craving right now. I bet we’ll see a revival.”  
“Sometimes when you visit your heroes, you can be so disappointed,” says Redzepi. “You’ve built up this perfect 
castle in the sky – an image of a place in Ireland where this family runs this little restaurant with an inn, and all 
these surrounding facilities, the farm, and so on. And then when you arrive there, it’s just a little bit better than 
everything that you envisioned.” 
Noma – which last month was awarded its third Michelin star and this month topped the World’s 50 Best 
Restaurants again – and Ballymaloe might seem to represent opposite poles of the gastronomic world: sleek fine 
dining versus rustic country-house cooking. Yet the two institutions, Danish and Irish, share a distinct commonality: 
both restaurants have almost single-handedly changed the way the world understands a national food culture. “I’ve 
always seen them as this family that’s done the impossible, which is to stay true to something original but nudge 
things into their time with each passing generation,” Redzepi continues. “Then we’re in this situation of a pandemic, 
and suddenly they are one of the most relevant places of all places in the fine-dining segment. Maybe before, there 
was a lot of emphasis on who’s coming up with the latest way of cooking a sauce – innovation for the sake of 
innovation, in some sense. Whereas now people are looking for something authentic and real. And dare I say, a 
little more traditional.
“It seems they’ve become this safe haven.”  
Ballymaloe House, rooms from €250. Ballymaloe Cookery School, half-day cooking courses from €115
Load-Date: October 31, 2021
End of Document
Airline slots: time to rethink the system for take-off and landing
Airline slots: time to rethink the system for take-off and landing
 
FT.com
October 28, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 333 words
Body
Slot allocation at capacity-constrained airports is a source of constant disputes. This month, low-cost Irish airline 
Ryanair fulminated against what it  claimed was anti-competitive “slot blocking” in Lisbon by Portugal’s flag carrier 
TAP. Incumbents have gripes too. They are feeling the pinch from the EU’s use-them or lose-them rules.
The usual requirement that airlines fly 80 per cent of the time in order to retain their landing slots was relaxed in the 
pandemic. Now the EU is demanding airlines use at least half of all slots held for the winter season. That is a tough 
ask given industry predictions of international flights running at  44 per cent of 2019 levels.
One option is to send empty planes up in the air. These are perverse incentives. Burn cash, dump emissions and, 
in return, keep hold of valuable slots at busy airports.
Dissent over the administrative system of slot allocation, which has governed the industry for 70-plus years, is 
growing. The UK’s Competition and Markets Authority  chafes at the grandfathering nature of allocation, which 
makes it hard for newcomers to acquire take-off and landing slots at the busiest airports.
In the US, the Federal Aviation Administration sought to auction slots at New York airports before its plans were 
kiboshed by the courts in 2009. China experimented with both an auction (Guangzhou) and a lottery (Shanghai) 
almost a decade later.
Slots are in effect free — although airlines invest in accompanying infrastructure and marketing services. But a 
secondary market gives a glimpse of their inherent value. Air New Zealand last year sold its slot at London 
Heathrow for $27m. Kenya Airways sold a pair of slots at the same airport to Oman Air in 2016 for a reported $75m.
Airline slots: time to rethink the system for take-off and landing
Industry body Iata argues that the global, connected nature of flights rules out alternative means of allocation. But it 
is worth persevering. Auctions work in other areas, such as spectrum allocation. At the very least, they beat sending 
ghost planes up in the air.
Load-Date: October 28, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair sued by online travel agent On The Beach
Ryanair sued by online travel agent On The Beach
 
FT.com
October 22, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 469 words
Byline: Kate Beioley, Philip Georgiadis and Jyoti Mann in London
Body
Online travel agent On the Beach is suing Ryanair for blocking it from booking flights with the airline, in an 
escalation of a long-running dispute between the travel groups.
According to legal documents filed with the High Court, On The Beach claims Ryanair breached competition rules 
by blocking the company’s credit cards and preventing its customers from managing bookings online. 
On The Beach claims Ryanair abused its “dominant” position in the market and caused it loss by unlawful means. 
The travel agent claims Ryanair stops it from creating a “my Ryanair account” required to make a booking and has 
made false and disparaging claims about the company.
Ryanair has long tussled with online travel agents, which prevent the airline dealing directly with customers. Chief 
executive Michael O’Leary has characterised online agents as “  overcharging scam artists” for adding their own 
fees to the airline’s prices, and Ryanair has previously complained that travel agents have provided incorrect 
passenger information to the airline.
Airlines prefer to deal with customers directly, particularly as it allows them to sell extra products ranging from seat 
selection to car rentals and hotel bookings. These so-called ancillaries are crucial to Ryanair’s low-cost business 
model in particular, and the airline pioneered using them in Europe to keep headline fares low.
Ryanair sued by online travel agent On The Beach
On The Beach is seeking damages from the airline and claims Ryanair sought to “degrade the experience for On 
The Beach customers by making it less convenient and/or more expensive for . . . customers to use Ryanair than 
for direct customers”.
Ryanair, which is yet to file a defence to the allegations, declined to comment. 
On The Beach claims that since December last year, Ryanair has refused to allow its customers to manage their 
bookings or check in online, requiring them to do it in person. In some cases customers were allegedly charged an 
extra €55 for doing so.
The case follows an ongoing spat over refunds for cancelled flights during the pandemic. Last year Ryanair 
accused several online booking companies of failing to pass refunds on to customers after flights were cancelled 
during the first wave of travel restrictions last spring.
In turn, On the Beach claims in its legal filing that package travel rules forced it to refund customers for cancelled 
flights that Ryanair did not pay back. The company claims it was forced to pay refunds worth £48.7m. 
Ryanair introduced an online “customer verification” form on Ryanair.com for customers to apply directly for flight 
refunds.  
The airline brought a case against On The Beach in 2010 arguing it had copied content from Ryanair’s website, 
breaching its terms of use. However, the claim has not progressed past a legal ruling on whether the case should 
be heard in Ireland or the UK.
Load-Date: October 22, 2021
End of Document
Brussels signals extension of looser Covid-era state aid rules
Brussels signals extension of looser Covid-era state aid rules
 
FT.com
October 19, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 548 words
Byline: Javier Espinoza in Brussels
Body
Brussels is seeking to extend its relaxation of state aid rules beyond the end of the year as it comes under pressure 
from businesses to keep the temporary measures introduced to help them survive the pandemic.
Margrethe Vestager, the EU’s competition chief, said the bloc was looking to extend the relaxation deadline, 
“hopefully” just one last time, but that arrangements for certain industries would remain after special exemptions 
were phased out.
Her comments come as some governments across the EU try to extricate themselves from the costly support 
schemes they used to prop up businesses struggling in the face of Covid-19 lockdowns. 
Speaking to the Financial Times, Vestager said: “We want to present what we are doing with hopefully the last 
version of the temporary state aid framework,” but that there would be “tools that will help the recovery in these 
sectors that are still struggling”.
She said future state aid would target industries particularly badly hit by the pandemic, such as airlines and the 
hospitality sector. But she warned that, rather than “pouring in” taxpayers’ money, the bloc needed to use “a little bit 
of taxpayers’ money to incentivise private investment”.
Last June, the European Commission approved a €9bn bailout to help Lufthansa, Germany’s largest airline, survive 
a dramatic drop in demand. 
Brussels signals extension of looser Covid-era state aid rules
The extraordinary state aid measures needed to be tapered off gradually, Vestager said, while businesses grappled 
with a drop in demand. “We will phase out the temporary framework but with a relationship to reality . . . we have 
new challenges coming up that may have a relationship with the pandemic.”
She added some of the new features (such as enabling small and medium-sized businesses to access private 
funding instead of a bank loan) might be given a longer life, “because we consider them to be pro-innovation, pro-
competitive”.
Since the pandemic, Brussels has granted exceptional aid in more than 650 cases, totalling €3.09tn. So far, 
however, only a quarter of that amount has been spent because companies in some countries have not needed to 
use all the funds available. But the commission has also faced criticism that support from the state is distorting 
competition across the EU. 
Ryanair has filed legal complaints against the commission’s approval of state aid for airlines, including Germany’s 
Condor and Austrian Airlines. Some member states, including the Netherlands, Sweden and Finland, are opposed 
to the extension, according to multiple people with direct knowledge of the matter. 
Despite the opposition, the commission is expected to extend the relaxation of state aid rules until spring next year, 
according to two people with knowledge of the plans. “The picture points to a targeted limited prolongation,” said a 
person working on the extension. “The plan is to extend it just one more time unless the situation changes.”
Asked about the difficulties of removing temporary aid, Vestager said: “When there is a crisis you spend more and 
in good times you have to spend less. That is something you need to realise in these kinds of jobs. People don’t like 
that [but] it comes with the job description.”
An official announcement of the extension is expected in the next few weeks, according to two people with direct 
knowledge of the matter.
Load-Date: October 19, 2021
End of Document
UK regulator takes legal action to force travel refunds
UK regulator takes legal action to force travel refunds
 
FT.com
October 18, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 530 words
Byline: Kate Beioley in London
Body
The UK competition regulator has launched legal action against the owner of Teletext Holidays, its first attempt 
through the courts to force a travel company to refund customers whose getaways were cancelled during the 
pandemic.
On Monday, the Competition and Markets Authority  said it had started proceedings to obtain a court order that 
would compel Truly Holdings, Teletext Holidays’ parent company, to repay customers still waiting for their money 
back. 
The case is its first probe into Covid-19 refunds to reach the courts and comes after the CMA  abandoned an 
investigation into pandemic-linked refunds at airlines Ryanair and British Airways in October. 
“Companies must abide by consumer protection law and treat their customers fairly,” said Andrea Coscelli, CMA 
chief executive.
“After engaging with Teletext Holidays extensively, we are now requesting a court order to make sure that the 
company immediately pays back the money it still owes to customers and refunds people within 14 days, going 
forward.”
Teletext said in a statement: “The company is working as hard as it can and continues to process the remaining 
refunds due under the package travel regulations to our remaining customers, and as such is very disappointed by 
the latest action by the CMA.”
UK regulator takes legal action to force travel refunds
Truly Holdings and its sister company, travel operator Alpharooms.com, signed undertakings in May to refund 
customers whose package breaks were cancelled during the pandemic. 
Truly agreed to take all reasonable measures to ensure eligible customers were paid back by the end of August at 
the latest. The company also agreed to refund new customers within 14 days of breaks being cancelled, as 
package holiday rules demand.
But in September the CMA said many customers were still waiting to be refunded. The regulator said Truly also 
appeared to be breaking the law by failing to swiftly refund new customers whose holidays were cancelled, adding it 
would take court action unless it rectified the issue. 
Truly said on Monday that it had already paid out £10.8m in refunds as of October 11 and owed another £1.2m to 
customers. 
The regulator does not have the power to fine companies directly for breaches of consumer law and must instead 
go through the courts to force companies to comply with regulations.
However, the threat of legal action has proved effective at wresting refunds from package holiday companies in 
recent months. In December Lastminute.com agreed to refund £7m for cancelled breaks and Tui and Virgin 
Holidays have also made commitments on repayments.
But the CMA has come up against barriers with regard to airline refunds, where the law is less straightforward. In 
October, the CMA dropped an investigation into refunds for Ryanair and British Airways customers who were 
prevented from flying owing to Covid-19 travel restrictions, saying the law was insufficiently clear to warrant a 
lengthy court case. 
Coscelli said at the time “the length of time that would be required to take this case through the courts, and the 
uncertain outcome, can no longer justify the further expense of public money”.
This article has been updated to include comments from Teletext Holidays and its owner Truly Holdings
Load-Date: October 18, 2021
End of Document
Fuel price increase threatens airlines’ recovery from pandemic
Fuel price increase threatens airlines’ recovery from pandemic
 
FT.com
October 18, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 428 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
A sharp rise in the price of fuel is threatening the airline industry’s slow recovery from the coronavirus crisis.
Oil prices climbed to their highest levels in seven years this week, triggering new concerns over carriers’ costs as 
patchy passenger demand persists after 18 months of travel restrictions. 
The price of jet fuel has doubled to almost $750 per metric tonne over the past year, according to data from the 
International Air Transport Association and Platts.
Delta Air Lines last week singled out fuel costs as it forecast a swing back to a loss in the final three months of the 
year, after only its second profitable quarter since the crisis began.
“Fuel prices continue to rise, which will pressure our ability to remain profitable,” the airline’s chief executive Ed 
Bastian said in a results call.
Airlines would typically try to pass rising costs on to passengers by raising ticket prices but the industry is still 
operating in a highly uncertain environment, with passenger numbers well below normal levels and some carriers 
trying to stimulate the market through low fares.
To make the situation worse, many airlines gave up on hedging their future fuel requirements when chaos ripped 
through the oil market last year, leaving them more exposed than usual to the subsequent sharp rise in crude 
prices.
Fuel price increase threatens airlines’ recovery from pandemic
Ryanair took a €300m hit in its 2020 financial year following the collapse in the price of oil after it employed a high 
level of hedging over the period.
“Most airlines suffered huge losses from fuel hedges last year as demand imploded in the face of the Covid 
pandemic and they were left holding contracts for delivery at prices well above spot,” said Mark Simpson, an 
aviation analyst at Goodbody.
“As such, most airlines shrunk or closed their hedge books, leaving them naked in the face of the recent rapid rise 
in fuel costs,” he said. 
One of the remaining airlines to still hedge a significant portion of its fuel is easyJet, which has locked in prices of 
$500 per metric tonne for 55 per cent of its expected fuel requirements for 2022.
“We are in a good place when you compare us to others,” easyJet chief Johan Lundgren said last week.
Still, the boss of one European airline said he stood by the decision to give up hedging, saying that for every spike 
in the oil price that hedging protected from, there was often a subsequent fall that left carriers out of pocket.
Data from aviation analysts at HSBC show airlines have been able to absorb huge extended swings in the oil price 
from decade to decade, but that it has led to volatile operating margins.
Load-Date: October 19, 2021
End of Document
UK drops BA and Ryanair probe into Covid refunds for passengers
UK drops BA and Ryanair probe into Covid refunds for passengers
 
FT.com
October 7, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 618 words
Byline: Kate Beioley and Sarah Provan in London
Body
The UK competition regulator has dropped its investigation into British Airways and Ryanair over refunds for 
passengers prevented from flying during the pandemic because of a lack of clarity in the law.
The Competition and Markets Authority said it was “insufficiently certain” it could secure refunds for customers 
stopped from flying by Covid-19 travel restrictions.
The regulator launched enforcement cases into the two airlines in June over concerns the companies may have 
broken the law by failing to offer refunds for flights customers could not legally take in pandemic lockdowns. 
BA had offered vouchers or the possibility to rebook, while Ryanair provided the option to rebook.
BA at the time called the investigation “incredible”, saying any punishment would put jobs at risk. 
The CMA said that passengers did not have a “sufficiently clear right to a refund in these unusual circumstances to 
justify continuing with the case” after a “thorough examination of relevant law”.
Consumer protection law entitles customers to refunds when an airline cancels a flight, but does not stipulate 
whether there should be refunds when passengers are “legally prohibited” from taking a flight that goes ahead.
CMA chief executive Andrea Coscelli said “the length of time that would be required to take this case through the 
courts, and the uncertain outcome, can no longer justify the further expense of public money”.
UK drops BA and Ryanair probe into Covid refunds for passengers
Ryanair welcomed the CMA’s decision to close the probe, saying: “We operated a limited schedule during UK 
lockdowns for customers who travelled for essential reasons. Passengers had the option to change their bookings 
without paying the flight change fee and many availed of this option.”
BA said: “During this unprecedented crisis, we have acted lawfully at all times, issuing nearly 4m refunds and 
offering highly flexible booking policies enabling millions of our customers to change their travel dates or 
destinations.” 
The company said it had been “navigating dynamic and fast-changing travel restrictions to maintain a limited 
schedule that ensured vital air connections for travellers and cargo throughout the pandemic.”
Several airlines faced criticism for continuing to run flights, even during lockdowns when almost all travel was 
banned, and only refunding passengers if flights were cancelled. The industry argued that people still needed to 
travel for some essential reasons. 
The CMA’s update underlines the difficulty the regulator has faced in protecting consumers during the pandemic 
due to the limits of the law and its own powers. 
The watchdog has been promised a new set of tools by the government including the ability to directly fine 
companies for breaches of consumer protection law. It currently takes companies to court in order to force them to 
comply with consumer laws, a lengthy process that can be costly and uncertain.
Coscelli said: “We strongly believe people who are legally prevented from taking flights due to lockdown laws 
should be offered a full refund and we launched this investigation in the hope that we would be able to secure a 
positive outcome for consumers.”
He added: “Given the importance of this to many passengers who have unfairly lost out, we hope that the law in this 
area will be clarified.” 
The watchdog has been more successful in securing refunds for package travel holiday customers than flight 
passengers due to specific package travel regulations. 
The CMA has secured several million pounds in refunds from companies including Tui UK, Virgin Holidays and 
Lastminute.com. In September it threatened to take legal action against Teletext for failing to swiftly repay 
customers who cancelled package holidays.
Additional reporting by Phil Georgiadis
Load-Date: October 7, 2021
End of Document
Regulator rules out refunds for customers who cancelled flights over Covid
Regulator rules out refunds for customers who cancelled flights over Covid
 
FT.com
October 7, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 535 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Hoping for a refund from a flight you couldn’t take because of Covid? You’re bang out of luck. 
The Competition and Markets Authority opened an investigation into British Airways and Ryanair  in June over their 
refusal to offer customers refunds when they couldn’t fly, instead offering them the option to rebook or, in BA’s 
case, vouchers. 
This morning the watchdog has closed its probe, concluding that “a lack of clarity in the law” means it can’t justify 
continuing to pursue the companies over their refund policies. 
CMA chief executive Andrea Coscelli said the regulator “strongly believes” that if people were legally blocked from 
taking flights because of lockdown laws, they should be offered a full refund. But it seems the law doesn’t allow it. 
So until the law changes, we’re going to have to suck it up. 
Briefly
Shell will take a $400m hit to third-quarter earnings from Hurricane Ida in the Gulf of Mexico, the oil company said 
this morning. The hurricane caused “significant structural damage” to one of Shell’s offshore platform facilities in the 
Gulf, with full repairs likely to take until the end of the year. 
Robert Walters is the latest to report on the back of the recruitment boom. The recruiter said that after the end of 
the third quarter, full-year profit was now expected to be “comfortably ahead” of the guidance it gave at its half-year 
Regulator rules out refunds for customers who cancelled flights over Covid
results. Revenues were up by more than a quarter on the same period last year during the three months until the 
end of September — but still 13 per cent lower than during the third quarter of 2019.
Also out today are updates from spread betting site CMC Markets and car dealership group Pendragon. 
Beyond the Square Mile
The group behind Pret A Manger, Panera Bread and Krispy Kreme is seeking to raise a $5bn fund to invest in the 
booming petcare market. JAB Holding, which manages the fortune of the billionaire Reimann family, has struck 
more than $50bn of deals in the consumer sector over the past few years, including through JAB Consumer 
Partners. With its previous $6bn of funds, JAB bought up veterinary businesses. It now  plans to target petcare 
services, a market that has thrived through lockdowns. 
Hedge funds are cashing in after buying up energy stocks dumped by green investors. Fund managers in the UK 
and the US are now reaping big gains as energy prices surge. Among those benefiting are Crispin Odey, Goldman 
Sachs’s prime brokerage division, and Bison Interests,  Laurence Fletcher reports. 
And two Amazon stories from our correspondent Dave Lee in San Francisco: Twitch, the live-streaming platform 
owned by the US group, suffered a  huge data breach exposing the service’s source code, the income of its biggest 
stars and other sensitive information. Meanwhile, Amazon has won a  record amount of tax breaks this year as local 
officials try to lure the online shopping giant to expand its one-day or same-day delivery networks in their areas.
Essential comment before you go
If you haven’t had enough of me (and fair enough if you have), then please do check out my column on Tesco and 
what the retailer’s results tell us about  the outlook for British business. You’ve got Bryce in your inbox tomorrow; I’ll 
be back on Monday. 
Load-Date: October 7, 2021
End of Document
BA to rehire some of thousands of staff laid off during pandemic
BA to rehire some of thousands of staff laid off during pandemic
 
FT.com
October 6, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 466 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
British Airways plans to rehire some of the thousands of staff laid off last year as the airline industry begins a 
tentative recovery from the pandemic. 
Unite, the union, says the airline is looking to rehire about 3,000 new cabin crew after  cutting roughly 10,000 jobs, 
a third of its workforce, last spring and summer when the Covid-19 crisis had grounded most of its aircraft.
BA did not confirm how many staff would be taken back, but it has begun offering new cabin crew jobs from next 
summer, according to an internal email seen by the Financial Times.
As the industry restarts flying at scale, staff who took voluntary redundancy last year but had asked to be put into a 
“talent pool” to be called upon when the industry recovered are now being contacted. 
The email to BA staff said  the easing of UK-US travel restrictions had been a “major milestone” for the industry.
“Finally we are beginning to see some real momentum as more countries open up for travel and consumer 
confidence grows,” the email said. 
But Unite sharply criticised the airline, which it said was acting “in bad faith”, offering to rehire staff on substantially 
lower pay than in their previous roles. 
“BA is championing its intention to recruit thousands of new staff, insultingly even asking those crew it sacked 
needlessly last year to reapply on substantially reduced terms and conditions,” the union said.
BA to rehire some of thousands of staff laid off during pandemic
Other airlines have also begun to restock their staffing pools.
Virgin Atlantic, which created a similar holding pool of laid-off cabin crew and pilots, has begun to rehire some, 
while Ryanair has announced a recruitment drive for aspiring pilots.
Although almost every airline made severe cuts to their workforces last year, BA attracted particular criticism for its 
handling of employee relations. 
This included a threat, which was never enacted, to  “fire and rehire” staff on worse pay on top of the thousands 
redundancies. 
News of the new hires came as the airline was standing by to reboot plans to operate a short-haul service from 
Gatwick if pilots agree to new terms and conditions.
Hopes for a new subsidiary with a lower cost base were  scrapped earlier this month when Balpa, the pilots union, 
pulled a vote on the plans. 
But Balpa has since come to a new agreement with BA, and has balloted its members for a second time, with the 
results expected on Thursday. 
Both the new BA hires and the potential new subsidiary from Gatwick reflect how airline bosses will look to rebuild 
their workforces and operations while cementing the considerable cost savings achieved during the pandemic. 
“As we begin our recovery after an unprecedented and unpredictable 18-month crisis which saw us restructure our 
business to survive, we’re starting to build back our schedule for next summer,” BA said in a statement. 
Load-Date: October 6, 2021
End of Document
Why £100m is the new magic number for CEOs
Why £100m is the new magic number for CEOs
 
FT.com
September 30, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 682 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
£100m is a nice round number. Maybe that is why it is the figure of choice for the entrepreneurial chief executive’s 
incentive scheme.
 József Váradi at Wizz Air has one.  Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary has one. And now Michael Murray, Mike Ashley’s 
future son-in-law and soon to be chief executive of Frasers Group (formerly known as Sports Direct),  has one too.
These are sometimes plugged as the types of high risk, high reward schemes on offer in private equity, paying out 
big but only if stretching targets are hit. But it’s the fact that £100m is such a very large number that seems to stick 
in the throat of the proxy agencies that advise investors how to vote. 
They don’t put it like that of course. “The terms of the scheme are not in line with UK best practice,” ISS said of 
Frasers’ scheme. 
That is one way to characterise a pay plan that gives a 31-year-old former property developer who happens to be 
marrying the founder’s daughter a £100m slice of a publicly listed company, despite limited evidence of his 
management expertise.
Murray has been Frasers’  “head of elevation” since 2018 and was in charge of the property division for two years 
before that. Maybe he is uniquely qualified to run Frasers, especially if one of the main requirements of the job is 
getting along with majority-owner Ashley. That could be worth £100m in itself. 
Why £100m is the new magic number for CEOs
As it happens, there was more to dislike in Frasers’ scheme than just the number. Glass Lewis and Pirc suggested 
investors vote against it, as 49.1 per cent of independent ones did. The share price has to more than double over 
four years for Murray to get his money. It only has to stay there for 30 days, though. And once the conditions are 
met, he can sell half straight away and the rest a year later. 
But technical gripes aside, the proxy agencies’ opposition was entirely predictable. They didn’t like Boohoo’s £150m 
scheme. They didn’t support Cineworld’s £130m one. And they didn’t support Wizz Air’s £100m plan, even though 
ISS described reservations about the scheme structure as “ancillary issues”. In the end, “the maximum opportunity 
is considered excessive and no compelling explanation has been provided to justify the quantum”, ISS concluded. 
In other words: £100m is too much money.
Predictable too, that when put to a shareholder vote all the plans have passed. So is there any point in the proxy 
agencies’ protestations?
They do result in a rap on the knuckles. Academic literature indicates an ISS recommendation to vote against 
causes 10 to 25 per cent of shareholders to do so. Companies where 20 per cent or more of votes are cast against 
a pay proposal have to explain themselves to investors and are put on the  Investment Association’s naughty list. 
But it may be that boards increasingly do not care. Losing a CEO over pay can be bad: Smith & Nephew shed 9 per 
cent of its market cap when it refused to meet  Namal Nawana’s pay demands. Whereas before no board wanted to 
secure less than 90 per cent support for a pay vote, now more companies are comfortable with 50 or 60 per cent 
support so long as the resolution passes, one pay consultant says. 
Tom Gosling, a board adviser, points out that it is  far from clear that ISS is good at picking out policies that will be 
bad for investor returns. 
What proxy advisers’ recommendations do is provide some investors with reputational insulation. They can say they 
voted against a proposal to put the next Persimmon-type scheme — where executives did walk away with more 
than £100m — in place. 
And, big flashy bonus schemes aside, Britain has actually experienced a period of some pay restraint over the past 
decade.  Deloitte research shows the median FTSE 100 CEO received £2.85m in pay in 2020, the fourth 
consecutive year of decline. 
You can’t justify a £100m pay plan for a UK public company by reference to peers. You probably can’t justify it at 
all. But at least if these schemes do pay out, £100m will be a small proportion of total shareholder return. And 
thanks in part to the proxies’ influence, a decent chunk of investors can point to their righteous objections. 
Load-Date: September 30, 2021
End of Document
EU plans visa crackdown on Belarus officials
EU plans visa crackdown on Belarus officials
 
FT.com
September 29, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 442 words
Byline: Henry Foy in Brussels
Body
Brussels plans to make it harder for Belarusian officials to get EU visas — a step designed to punish Alexander 
Lukashenko’s regime amid accusations from the country’s exiled opposition that the bloc has failed to do enough to 
help their cause.
The European Commission said on Wednesday it would partially suspend a visa issuance agreement with Belarus, 
a move that would make it harder for state officials to enter the EU, but not affect ordinary citizens. 
The crackdown comes after Lukashenko  facilitated illegal migration into the bloc this summer, allowing thousands 
of migrants to cross into Lithuania, Latvia and Poland from Belarus. Brussels said the flow of people was driven by 
a co-ordinated scheme by Minsk to put pressure on the EU’s eastern flank.
That follows Lukashenko’s fraudulent re-election last year, which sparked mass pro-democracy protests in the post-
Soviet state. The democracy movement was met by a brutal crackdown by security services that involved mass 
jailings and widespread reports of torture and murder.
The EU imposed some economic sanctions against Minsk in June, after the regime forced a Ryanair flight to land in 
order to detain a dissident on board, but senior members of the country’s opposition have criticised what they say is 
Brussels’ slow and limited response.
EU plans visa crackdown on Belarus officials
“Lukashenko does not fear the EU,” said Pavel Latushko, a member of the opposition Coordination Council set up 
by Svetlana Tsikhanouskaya, Lukashenko’s rival in the stolen election. “A dictator takes 100 steps forward and a 
democracy responds by slowly taking just one.
“The EU really does not respond to the hybrid war being waged by Minsk,” he added. “In a European country a 
criminal holds power and kills people. This is Saddam Hussein in Europe.”
Announcing the change to the visa policy, European Commission vice-president Margaritis Schinas said that the 
step was “a strong signal and a signal that is crystal clear”.
Latushko, who is visiting senior EU officials this week in Brussels to demand more action, said that EU countries 
should instead legally de-recognise Lukashenko’s administration, which would restrict its access to international 
funding, such as a $1bn package provided by the IMF to Minsk last month. 
He said that Brussels should also designate Belarus as a “terrorist state” due to evidence of “crimes against 
humanity” by Lukashenko’s security services.
The commission’s proposal to restrict visas would affect Belarusian national and regional government officials and 
parliamentarians, and members of the country’s constitutional and supreme courts, it said. The proposal requires 
approval from the EU council of member states.
Load-Date: September 29, 2021
End of Document
Real carbon taxes are the next big political battle
Real carbon taxes are the next big political battle
 
FT.com
September 23, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 869 words
Byline: Simon Kuper
Body
There is “no question of the lights going out” this winter, Britain’s business secretary  Kwasi Kwarteng promised 
MPs, ominously, as gas prices jumped. “There will be no three-day weeks or a throwback to the 1970s.” 
All of Europe is fretting about energy bills. Electricity prices are soaring for various reasons, including the post-
vaccination economic rebound and a temporary gas shortage. Longer-term, though, consumers will increasingly 
butt up against a force whose very purpose is to keep fossil fuels expensive:  carbon taxes. The EU’s carbon price 
has doubled in a year to  a near-record €60 a tonne; Britain’s is  higher still, at £56.14. Carbon taxes are already 
hastening the phasing out of coal, making gas even pricier.
We need carbon taxes. They are arguably our most cost-effective weapon if we’re going to have even a theoretical 
chance of  cutting emissions by 45 per cent by 2030. But the moment carbon pricing actually raises the price of 
carbon, it will terrify politicians. Carbon pricing versus voters’ wallets is the next political battle of our time. 
Until now, carbon taxes have been designed to be toothless. Even Sweden, which levies the world’s highest, has 
cannily  exempted entire categories of polluters. Globally, only about a fifth of emissions are covered by carbon 
prices.  Just 4 per cent are covered by a carbon tax of at least $40 a tonne — the minimum rate that might be 
compatible with the goal of keeping the rise in global temperatures well below 2 degrees. In fact, a tax rate of  €120 
a tonne would be “more in line with recent estimates of overall social carbon costs”, reckons the OECD, the rich-
country club. Carbon pricing as it stands isn’t climate action; it’s just virtue-signalling. Any government trying to get 
more ambitious hits resistance. The  uprising of France’s gilets jaunes in 2018 sank Emmanuel Macron’s attempt to 
hike fuel prices by a few cents per litre.
Real carbon taxes are the next big political battle
Politicians are right to be scared, because higher carbon taxes will hurt. Even if there’s no hit to economic growth, 
spending will shift from consumption to investment. Gone will be that £19 London-Mallorca  return flight on Ryanair. 
Our clothes, petrol, meat and coffee will all get pricier. We’ll need to send an army of workers around the rich 
world’s houses ripping out boilers, installing heat pumps and insulating attics. The felt benefit to homeowners will be 
rather less than when our great-grandparents got toilets and central heating. There will be new green jobs, but 
these might not pacify newly unemployed airline stewards, car-plant workers and coal miners. 
Still, carbon taxes are finally going mainstream. In July, China launched the world’s biggest national  emissions-
trading scheme, while the European Commission proposed a carbon price on car fuel and heating for buildings.  
Even Canada’s Conservatives now back carbon taxes (provided they are harmlessly priced). The UN’s climate 
change summit in Glasgow in November will generate a new global push. But many voters won’t like it: much as 
they enjoy virtue-signalling, it’s not clear they want action. The galvanising effect of this summer’s climate disasters 
has already faded: July’s German floods are  no longer expected to benefit the Greens in Sunday’s elections.
Given that realistic carbon taxes will be unpopular, how best to introduce them? Macron did the world a favour by 
test-running the least appealing version imaginable. His fuel tax had its biggest impact on an underprivileged group: 
poorer suburbanites and rural people who rely on cars. It offered them no alternative: where they lived, they couldn’t 
switch to public transport or bikes. It was introduced without consultation. It let off the rich: there was no comparable 
levy on, say, business-class flights. And proceeds went into the opaque national budget.
It would be fairly simple to design a smarter carbon tax. The consultancy Climate Focus  has some tips. First, pay 
out the proceeds, especially to poorer people, so that voters come to think of carbon pricing as a dividend as well 
as a tax. In Switzerland, every recipient receives a compensation payment through the health-insurance system, 
with a letter explaining “why you are receiving XY francs”. Second, governments must offer people non-polluting 
alternatives. One model is London, where the £15 daily congestion charge imposed on drivers goes partly into 
public transport. Third: give people ownership of a carbon tax by consulting them first. Get them enthused about a 
shared mission.
France is now belatedly laying the ground for making carbon more expensive. To pacify the gilets jaunes, Macron 
held a  “grand débat national”, which generated more than 10,000 public gatherings and 1.5 million individual 
contributions on how to achieve the “ecological transition”. France is building cycle lanes and 68 metro stations in 
Paris’s suburbs. Once they exist, carbon taxes will feel fairer. I remain extremely confident that global temperatures 
will rise by more than 2 degrees while we barely even pretend to do anything. But we could at least try.
Follow Simon on Twitter  @KuperSimon and email him at  simon.kuper@ft.com
Follow  @FTMag on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first
Load-Date: September 23, 2021
End of Document
British Airways axes plans to create low-cost subsidiary at Gatwick
British Airways axes plans to create low-cost subsidiary at Gatwick
 
FT.com
September 23, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 505 words
Byline: Harry Dempsey
Body
British Airways has scrapped plans to create a low-cost subsidiary based at Gatwick airport after a pilots’ union 
failed to support the proposal, in a blow for its ambitions to challenge rivals Ryanair and easyJet as the industry 
emerges from the pandemic.
BA, owned by International Airlines Group, said it was “disappointed”  plans to turn its short-haul operations into 
low-cost ones at the UK’s second busiest airport had failed to gain backing from the British Airline Pilots’ 
Association (Balpa). 
“After many years of losing money on European flights from the airport, we were clear that coming out of the 
pandemic, we needed a plan to  make Gatwick profitable and competitive,” it said in a statement. 
“With regret, we will now suspend our short-haul operations at Gatwick, with the exception of a small number of 
domestic services connecting to our long-haul operation, and will pursue alternative uses for the London Gatwick 
short-haul slots.”
Martin Chalk, acting general secretary at Balpa, said “despite our best efforts” the union had been unable to reach 
an agreement with BA on “revised terms and conditions for London Gatwick (LGW) short-haul, that was acceptable 
to our members”.
Balpa, he added, remained “open to future negotiations” with BA to address members’ concerns with the proposals 
“for LGW short-haul or about any other part of the business”.
British Airways axes plans to create low-cost subsidiary at Gatwick
It comes only a month after the plans were first announced by BA in what would have been an attempt to restore 
passenger numbers next summer as airlines recover from the coronavirus crisis.
BA operates 47 short-haul routes from Gatwick that have been on hold since spring 2020 due to Covid-19, 
according to Cirium, a travel analytics firm.
The airline is scheduled to run about 1,880 flights from Gatwick in July next year and a potential withdrawal would 
leave the airport without services to Algiers, Cologne/Bonn, Genoa and Manchester.
In an email sent to BA pilots seen by the Financial Times, it said pilots would have remained BA employees if they 
moved to the subsidiary and acknowledged the “journey to recovery is going to be slow”.
“We believed we could build a competitive BA branded short-haul operation out of Gatwick. But to make this 
happen, we would have to turn a lossmaking operation into a profitable one,” it added.
It is the latest in a string of attempts by BA to venture into Europe’s low-cost airline market, which is dominated by 
budget airlines Ryanair, Wizz Air and easyJet. 
In 1998, the company founded Go Fly, which operated flights between London Stansted and Europe before being 
taken over by easyJet four years later.
IAG and Europe’s other leading airlines have been hit hard by the pandemic, the worst crisis in the history of 
aviation, as it brought international travel to a halt. 
IAG revenues plummeted 70 per cent year on year to €1.1bn in the second quarter as airlines under its umbrella, 
which also include Aer Lingus and Iberia, flew just 22 per cent of their pre-pandemic flight schedules.
Additional reporting by Sylvia Pfeifer
Load-Date: September 23, 2021
End of Document
Aircraft sales show signs of life after pandemic slump
Aircraft sales show signs of life after pandemic slump
 
FT.com
September 19, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 877 words
Byline: Sylvia Pfeifer and Philip Georgiadis in London and Claire Bushey in Chicago
Body
The multibillion-pound business of buying and selling commercial aircraft was put on hold during the Covid-19 
pandemic. But a rare public spat between Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary and Boeing over the Irish airline’s latest 
order of 737 Max 10 jets shows the high stakes game is sputtering back to life.
It is also a sign that the aircraft market is reviving as airlines return to the negotiating table to place orders for 
passenger jets in anticipation of the return of more passengers.
The pandemic has hit aviation hard, with Boeing saying the virus has cost the industry two years of growth. The 
breakdown of talks with O’Leary over a new batch of Max 10 jets shows a more confident approach from the US 
manufacturer, according to industry watchers. 
“It is good for the industry that Boeing is showing some price discipline. The Max is a good aircraft. They shouldn’t 
be pressured by O’Leary into giving it away,” John Leahy, former commercial director at Airbus, told the Financial 
Times.
Boeing has remained reticent about the disagreement with O’Leary, only noting that it valued Ryanair’s business 
but had to exercise discipline. A large new order for the Max would have boosted the US group as it continues to 
build confidence in the aircraft after two fatal crashes.
Aircraft sales show signs of life after pandemic slump
The company has won a series of orders this year, including for 150 of the Max 10 from United Airlines. It has also 
reduced the backlog of Max jets that had been built but did not have buyers to about a couple of dozen, according 
to market watchers.
“Over the past year or so, Boeing has been going through the friends and family of the Max and offered a good 
price to help it clear the backlog of Maxes. All existing buyers bought some more,” said Rob Stallard, an analyst at 
Vertical Research Partners.
Across the industry, although the recovery in traffic is patchy, airlines have returned to ordering new planes. 
Data from Ascend by Cirium, the aviation consultancy, show 902 new gross orders, which excludes cancellations 
and orders for non-commercial customers, recorded by Airbus and Boeing so far this year. This compares with 672 
orders for the whole of 2020. North American airlines, notably United Airlines and Southwest Airlines, have led the 
charge this year. 
“You can see the clear impact of Max orders from US majors [airlines],” said Rob Morris, head of consultancy at 
Ascend by Cirium. 
Actual deliveries, however, are much lower. Over the same period, only 572 aircraft have been delivered. 
Marc Allen, chief strategy officer at Boeing, said the company’s sales teams were in discussions with a “number of 
customers globally”.
“We are seeing demand from a number of different regions. A lot of airlines recognise that now is an opportunity for 
them to reset their planning and their fleet intentions.”
Dómhnal Slattery, chief executive of Avolon, the Irish aircraft leasing company, said the recent orders from US 
airlines in particular over the past six months were a positive sign. “It sends a message of confidence in the market 
recovery and it also sends a message of confidence in the Max.”
Airbus, the world’s other leading jet manufacturer, in August recorded its best month for plane orders since the 
onset of the Covid-19 pandemic in January 2020.
The European company, which has fallen behind Boeing in order flow this year as its US rival has replenished its 
Max backlog, reported 102 gross orders for August, including large deals with Delta Air Lines and Jet2, the British 
budget airline. The UK carrier’s order for 36 A321neo jets was seen as a coup for Airbus because it has traditionally 
bought from Boeing.
Airline bosses are clearly feeling more confident, too. Ed Bastian, chief executive of Delta Air Lines, told an investor 
conference that crises also “create opportunities”.
“They’ve created us with a great opportunity to accelerate our fleet development, not just retire a lot of old inefficient 
planes, but acquire a lot of new. Not just the [Airbus] 321neos and the like, but going out into used markets, which 
we’re not afraid of tapping into with some amazing bargains that will be around as a capital-friendly decision for 
years to come,” he said.
Robert Jordan, the incoming chief executive at Southwest Airlines, told the same conference that the airline 
expected 2022 to be a “big growth year in terms of net new aircraft” as it seeks to restore its network after the 
pandemic.
Even in Europe, where the recovery has been slower than in the US, carriers have begun to look at renewing their 
fleets, according to an industry executive, noting that confidence had been buoyed by a strong summer.
Aircraft sales show signs of life after pandemic slump
O’Leary, well-known for his bullishness, is particularly upbeat despite the breakdown of talks with Boeing. He told 
investors on Thursday that the airline’s new fleet of Boeing aircraft would help to deliver a step-change in growth. 
Ryanair expects to fly more passengers than previously forecast by March 2026. 
However, the air traffic revival remains tentative. Several of the largest US carriers last week revealed a slowdown 
in demand, blaming rising cases of the contagious Delta variant of coronavirus.
Avolon’s Slattery has also cautioned that on a global basis it will take “at least a couple more years to where I feel 
we are truly through the worst”.
  
Load-Date: September 20, 2021
End of Document
Buffett of the airline business is in for the long haul
Buffett of the airline business is in for the long haul
 
FT.com
September 17, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1081 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Bill Franke has spent 20 years disproving Warren Buffett’s adage that airlines are a “death trap for investors”.
But as a novice private equity executive touting his first fund in 2002, he struggled to persuade big investors and 
pension funds to pour money into a notoriously cyclical and unpredictable industry. “They were all like ‘not in the 
airline industry’,” Franke recalled in an interview with the Financial Times.
Two decades later, the 84-year-old Franke is considered by some to be the most successful airline investor in 
history after buying stakes in a clutch of small carriers and pushing them into rapid growth by installing the ultra-low-
cost business model pioneered by Southwest Airlines in the US and Ryanair in Europe. 
While passengers often chafe at the no-frills model, which includes piling seats into aircraft and charging for add-
ons, this part of the industry is expected to emerge strengthened by the pandemic, reinforcing Franke’s reputation 
further as the Buffett of the airline business. 
Franke’s Indigo Partners owns stakes in six airlines, including Frontier in the US, Volaris in Mexico and Canada’s 
Enerjet. But it is Hungarian airline Wizz Air, which is 40 per cent owned by Indigo and chaired by Franke, that has 
caught the imagination of a battered industry. 
Wizz hopes to use the crisis for a breakneck growth spurt, and its ambitions were underlined when  an audacious 
bid for easyJet was revealed, and rejected, last week. 
Buffett of the airline business is in for the long haul
Franke would not discuss easyJet, but said Indigo was “actively considering opportunities” as the airline industry 
emerges from the chaos unleashed by Covid. 
“It is a time for the industry to look at consolidation, and we would clearly want to be a consolidator [buyer],” he said.
Wizz chief executive József Váradi has also been offered an eye-catching £100m bonus if he can more than double 
the share price over the next five years. 
“That’s typical Bill,” said John Leahy, the former head of sales for aircraft manufacturer Airbus, who has had first-
hand experience in negotiations with Franke as a seller of passenger jets to his airlines. “It won’t pay out unless 
[Váradi] delivers and if he doubles the stock price, then Bill is willing to share,” he said. 
Yet, surprisingly given his success, Franke never meant to end up in the airline business. 
It was not until the early 1990s, when he was in his mid-50s, that he first took an interest in airlines after an 
approach from the Arizona state governor; the politician had followed the businessman’s successful but low-profile 
career turning round businesses in the paper and retail industries, and asked him to help save bankrupt carrier 
America West.
“I did not know up from down about Airbus or Boeing or any parts of the business . . . I had to get on a fast track to 
be educated, sometimes the hard way,” Franke said.
Helped by capital put up by private equity’s billionaire businessman David Bonderman, the novice airline boss again 
demonstrated his golden touch in restructuring, turning America West into a successful low-cost operator over the 
next decade. 
He then left the airline and followed his friend Bonderman into private equity, founding Indigo Partners in 2002. 
With early backing from Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund, which is still an investor today, the fund’s investments 
ranged across continents, but were always guided by the consistent approach of seeking assets where costs were 
kept low that served Franke well in his turnround days. 
“In almost every case, the management had permitted the balance sheet to go to hell in a handcart,” he said of the 
companies he restructured, something he never forgot as he hunted out investments for his new private equity fund. 
“There was a really good, relentless, focus on costs,” said Ben Baldanza, the chief executive of Indigo-backed Spirit 
Airlines between 2005 and 2016. “That’s the one thing an airline can really control.”
However, there have been missteps. Spirit, which Franke sold out of in 2013, was dogged by customer complaints 
about the no-frills model, while an investment in Russia failed. 
And it is difficult to determine how well Indigo, and Franke himself, have done at his private equity group as it 
discloses almost no financial information. 
Franke would go no further than saying Indigo would be “for sure in the top 10 per cent” of the industry for returns 
over the past 20 years. He also refuses to disclose his investors, although they are understood to include a 
European bank and high-net-worth individuals.
However, the group has clearly made money out of Wizz, an unmitigated success in terms of share price, which 
has rocketed to nearly £50 from £11.50 in 2015 when the airline listed in London. Over that period, Indigo has 
slowly reduced its stake in the carrier, including a £400m share sale this year. 
Leahy, who sat across the table from Franke during the negotiations for one of the largest aircraft orders in history, 
is certainly impressed. 
Buffett of the airline business is in for the long haul
“He is a very tough negotiator, but he isn’t one of these guys who pounds the tables and gesticulates in the press. 
We found a compromise, I would like to say in the middle but maybe it was slightly more in his direction,” Leahy 
said, referring to Franke’s  order of 430 aircraft on behalf of four of his airlines for a headline price of $49.5bn in 
2017.
“I would say his batting average is very good, not too many disasters and an awful lot of successes. He has made a 
tonne of money.” 
He also had a tendency of getting his way, Leahy added. “If you are one of Bill’s airlines, I don’t think you were 
stubbornly independent for long, you followed Bill’s directions or else.” 
Baldanza agreed that Franke kept a tight grip on his airlines, playing off his chief executives against each other.
“I used to joke with Joe [Váradi, Wizz Air boss] that Bill would always tell Joe: ‘You guys are way behind, you have 
to be doing what Spirit is doing,’ and he would always tell me: ‘You guys are way behind, you have to do what Wizz 
is doing,’” Baldanza said.
Michael O’Leary, the outspoken boss of Ryanair, a tough airline deals negotiator himself, is impressed, too. “Very 
smart and very rich,” he said of Franke, who also has staying power and shows no signs of slowing down.
“It is an interesting, difficult business, but that is part of what keeps me intellectually engaged,” Franke said, clearly 
with an eye to continue making a mark on a business he has helped evolve over his decades-long career as an 
investor and turnround specialist. 
Load-Date: September 18, 2021
End of Document
Wall Street stocks and Treasuries dip after strong retail sales data
Wall Street stocks and Treasuries dip after strong retail sales data
 
FT.com
September 16, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 512 words
Byline: Harriet Clarfelt in London and Kate Duguid in New York
Body
US stocks and government bonds slipped on Thursday after stronger than expected data on American  retail sales 
raised expectations that the Federal Reserve would soon begin reining in its stimulus efforts. 
Wall Street’s blue-chip S&P 500 and Dow Jones indices both closed down 0.2 per cent in New York. The 
technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite index retraced its earlier move lower and ended the day up 0.1 per cent. US 
Treasury prices were also under pressure, pushing the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up 0.04 percentage 
points to 1.34 per cent. 
The soft session came after a report from the commerce department showed US retail sales climbed 0.7 per cent in 
August compared with July, widely topping economists’ expectations for a 0.8 per cent decline. 
Consumption accounts for about  70 per cent of US economic output, so retail sales data are scrutinised by many 
Wall Street traders. 
“The health of the US consumer is really one of the most important anchors of sustained economic recovery,” said 
Madison Faller, global market strategist at JPMorgan Private Bank. 
“We’re really expecting more strong demand out of the consumption part of the economy,” she added, “particularly 
given the fact that consumers have really healthy balance sheets including trillions of dollars of excess savings that 
can help fuel future spending.”
Wall Street stocks and Treasuries dip after strong retail sales data
The positive data bolster Fed chair Jay Powell’s  signal in August that the world’s most influential central bank could 
begin slowing its $120bn-a-month asset purchase programme this year. The Fed meets next week, when traders 
will watch closely for any update on plans to “taper” its bond-buying programme.
The stimulus has been a crucial pillar supporting the rally in many risk assets, propelling the S&P 500 up more than 
18 per cent this year. Without the Fed as a buyer, the prospect of more Treasury debt supply has driven prices 
lower and yields higher. 
Joshua Shapiro, chief US economist at MFR, said while one-time factors could have affected the August retail sales 
data, “in the ‘will they or won’t they’ debate about a Fed taper announcement next Wednesday, this report certainly 
supports the pro-taper side of the argument”.
Stocks in Europe fared better than those on Wall Street, with the region-wide Stoxx 600 benchmark closing up 0.4 
per cent, buoyed by the continent’s travel and leisure sector that jumped 3.4 per cent after the Irish low-cost carrier 
Ryanair raised its traffic growth outlook.
In Asia, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index lost 1.5 per cent after Beijing’s intensifying focus on sectors spanning 
gambling to education knocked investor sentiment. 
The casino group Sands China was among the biggest fallers for the second day in a slide triggered by efforts from 
Macau’s government to  tighten oversight of the industry. The Hang Seng gauge has shed almost 6 per cent this 
week, leaving it on track for its worst run since the market tumult in March last year. 
The oil benchmark Brent crude settled up 0.3 per cent to $75.67 a barrel, having rallied this week after Hurricane 
Ida led to the closure of US refineries.
Load-Date: September 16, 2021
End of Document
EasyJet ’s cash call leaves repair job to do
EasyJet’s cash call leaves repair job to do
 
FT.com
September 14, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 668 words
Byline: Helen Thomas
Body
Every seasoned traveller knows to avoid the middle seat. And easyJet isn’t doing a good job of making it look 
comfortable.
The airline, which occupies the space between aggressive low-cost rivals like Ryanair and the legacy flag carriers, 
last week launched a surprise  £1.2bn rights issue. The cash call was overshadowed by the news that  easyJet had 
rejected a takeover approach from one fierce competitor, Wizz Air.
But as the rights issue has got under way and the shares have continued to slide, some questions remain: mainly, 
what is easyJet going to do with all that money?
The fundraising was bigger than anything expected by the market. Some analysts thought it could raise perhaps 
£500m-£600m to firm up its balance sheet after the ravages of the pandemic, an amount that should have been 
enough to defend its investment-grade rating. 
 Putting some sort of buffer in place, at a point where the world is reopening rather than in crisis, is probably 
sensible: net debt had risen from £326m at the end of 2019 to more than £2bn at the end of the most recent 
quarter. It went into the pandemic with 70 per cent of its total fleet unencumbered, or available to raise financing 
against. That figure has fallen to 41 per cent.
But easyJet went for a much bigger raise in an issue priced at 410p, or a 35.8 per cent discount to the theoretical 
ex-rights price. According to analysts at Bernstein, it was “unable to articulate convincingly what the money was 
EasyJet ’s cash call leaves repair job to do
for”. With close to £3bn in liquidity, consensus was that easyJet had funds on hand as travel gets going; it still 
expects to run close to 60 per cent of 2019 capacity in the fourth quarter of the year.
One possibility is that it sees a longer and more painful recovery than its rivals and the market. EasyJet has argued 
the rights issue will get it back to where it was pre-pandemic, a robust position in an unpredictable industry and one 
that served it well in the past year. 
It is more exposed to the UK market than lower-cost peers, where constantly changing travel rules have held back 
air travel and a winter lockdown hasn’t been ruled out. Another explanation is that it wants to bring forward orders of 
new aircraft, something it suggested wasn’t currently planned. Other opportunities identified around ancillary 
revenues or buying slots don’t require big sums.
Some  industry stalwarts argue that, as an “inbetweener” airline, easyJet  has a strategic problem. Former British 
Airways boss Alex Cruz has  described that as the “worst place to be now”. 
A reduction to the size of the fleet during the pandemic, in part under pressure from  founder shareholder Stelios 
Haji-Ioannou, “leaves them less able to exploit opportunities” than rapidly expanding carriers like Wizz and Ryanair, 
said industry consultant John Strickland. On the other side, it has to contend with state-backed legacy airlines, 
which could prove to be increasingly entrenched and irrational competitors.
The more immediate issue is unease among some shareholders, those who have long supported its hybrid model 
of building hefty positions at prime, congested airports like Gatwick and using them to take share away from higher-
cost flag carriers. 
In an asset-heavy business, “the most important job of an airline CEO is to allocate capital [well]”, said Alex Irving at 
Bernstein. But the size of the raise has prompted questions about how the board and chief executive Johan 
Lundgren came to its decision, especially given the interest from Wizz. 
One shareholder told the FT this week: “We are unhappy at the capital allocation framework the company has used 
to determine that a rights issue of such size and discount was optimum for shareholders versus the other options 
available to them.”
EasyJet’s move should eliminate any concerns about holes in its balance sheet, or indeed its ability to compete fully 
in a recovery. But Stephen Hester, the former Royal Bank of Scotland boss who will take over as chair in 
December, may still have a repair job on his hands.
 @helentbiz
Load-Date: September 14, 2021
End of Document
O’Leary says Wizz Air and easyJet must merge or be taken over
O’Leary says Wizz Air and easyJet must merge or be taken over
 
FT.com
September 11, 2021 Saturday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 555 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary believes rivals Wizz Air and easyJet will need to merge or be taken out by other 
carriers as the airline industry consolidates following the pandemic. 
EasyJet  revealed on Thursday it had rebuffed a takeover approach from an unnamed suitor, which a person 
familiar with the talks confirmed was Wizz Air.
The approach is the first sign of dealmaking in a European industry that has suffered 18 months of disruption and 
long been seen as ripe for consolidation.
“Both easyJet and Wizz will either need to be taken out or . . . coalesce together,” O’Leary told the Financial Times.
He suggested that large flag carriers such as the British Airways owner IAG, Lufthansa or Air France could 
eventually try to buy rival airlines, be they low-cost rival or smaller network airlines. 
“Consolidation needs to happen and will happen. It’s an inevitability, particularly coming out of Covid,” he added. 
O’Leary believes that airlines need huge scale to survive, and that the fragmented European market is 
unsustainable in the long-term.
Many European governments have been unwilling to lose their national airlines and — to O’Leary’s horror — 
unveiled sweeping aid to help their struggling carriers survive the impact of the pandemic.
O’Leary says Wizz Air and easyJet must merge or be taken over
Following the interest in his airline, easyJet’s chief executive Johan Lundgren also said the pandemic could drive 
industry tie-ups in Europe. “I think that everybody would agree that when you go through situations like this, that 
there are consolidation plays happening,” he said on Thursday.  
For O’Leary, a combination between Wizz and easyJet would make sense given they both run all-Airbus fleets and 
work in largely separate geographies.
A play for easyJet would have given ambitious Wizz an immediate large footprint in western Europe, a region it is 
slowly moving into after growing through its home market of eastern Europe over the past 15 years.  
But, like Ryanair, it has built a formidable operating model by keeping its own operating costs very low. A tie-up with 
easyJet would bring with it higher costs and the need to operate from more expensive airports.
“The question would be, would Wizz improve easyJet’s costs, or will easyJet’s costs destroy Wizz’s cost base,” 
O’Leary said. 
Ryanair was not interested in M&A at the moment, O’Leary said, because he feared this would disrupt his airline’s 
fearsomely efficient business model.
Still, he revealed that he made multiple attempts to buy Wizz Air from its founding American investor Bill Franke in 
the years before it listed in London in 2015. “I tried to buy Wizz three or four times off him, but we could never agree 
a price,” he said. 
He said he was no longer interested given Wizz’s market capitalisation of about £5.5bn. 
Ryanair has more than 200 aircraft on order to help it grow over the next decade, but this week talks with Boeing 
about a further order for larger Max-10 aircraft collapsed after the two sides could not agree a price. 
O’Leary, who is known within the industry for going public with his negotiations with suppliers, said he was ready to 
wait a decade for the next crisis before he returned to the table. He said he would “happily play ball” with Airbus if it 
came in with an offer 5 to 10 per cent cheaper than Boeing. “I am an accountant,” he said. 
Wizz Air and easyJet declined to comment. 
Load-Date: September 11, 2021
End of Document
European airlines jostle for position as they look beyond pandemic
European airlines jostle for position as they look beyond pandemic
 
FT.com
September 10, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1093 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
European aviation may be on the cusp of a new order. 
The revelation on Thursday of a  bid by Wizz Air for rival budget carrier easyJet marks the first sign of a potential 
wave of consolidation in the region’s airline industry as it emerges from the pandemic. The  rejected offer highlights 
the tale of two carriers, both ambitious and hoping to expand.
But Wizz has been by far the most aggressive through the crisis, while easyJet also unveiled a new  £1bn-plus 
rights issue to help bolster its balance sheet for the post-Covid world.
Other airlines are also jostling for position in what could be a fundamental reshaping of Europe’s fragmented airline 
market that had already experienced a clutch of bankruptcies before the coronavirus crisis.
British Airways, for example, has asked unions to back a plan to make sweeping changes to its short-haul Gatwick 
operations to match easyJet’s more flexible and seasonal model.
In short, airlines are looking beyond the pandemic to prepare for a new business cycle, said Ross Harvey, an 
analyst at Davy Research. “The major carriers are now moving to position themselves for the post-Covid world,” he 
added.
But it has been Wizz chief executive Jozsef Varadi and rival boss Michael O’Leary at Ryanair who have been the 
most bullish, talking up their airlines as the potential winners in a post-pandemic endgame.
European airlines jostle for position as they look beyond pandemic
For Varadi, who founded Wizz nearly 20 years ago, expanding the group from a start-up in Budapest in 2004 into 
one of Europe’s biggest low-cost airlines, the crisis is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to expand. 
He has pushed to be allowed to scoop up more landing slots at London’s Gatwick airport, taken on new aircraft and 
restored flying more aggressively than many of his competitors. 
On its current flight schedules, Wizz will fly more people than in 2019 in the final three months of the year, 
according to aviation analysts at Goodbody. In contrast, easyJet expects to fly about two-thirds of normal capacity. 
The story is  mirrored in the markets with easyJet shares trading at half their pre-pandemic levels, while Wizz’s 
have completely recovered their coronavirus losses, hitting all-time highs this year. Wizz has now overtaken 
easyJet in size, with a market capitalisation of £5bn against easyJet’s £3.3bn. 
In essence, the pandemic may force the European market, which still has a fleet of national flag carriers and low-
cost competitors, to become more like the US in consolidating down to four main players.
“I think everybody would agree that when you go through situations like this, that there are consolidation plays 
happening,” easyJet’s chief executive Johan Lundgren said.
The move by Wizz — a person familiar with the talks confirmed they were the prospective bidder for easyJet — also 
marks a significant escalation in the  Hungarian airline’s ambitions. 
At a stroke the deal would have supercharged its acceleration into western Europe, giving it extra market share that 
would have taken years to grow organically, even as rivals retreat. 
It would also have taken advantage of easyJet’s still bombed out share price, a fact not lost on the company’s 
leadership. The bid, said easyJet’s Lundgren, “significantly undervalued” the group.
Yet, such a deal would also come with higher costs associated with easyJet’s business that could undermine Wizz’s 
main selling point.
Backed by American aviation veteran Bill Franke, one of the industry’s most successful investors, the Hungarian 
airline’s low cost base rivals Ryanair, the region’s biggest budget airline. 
Analysts at Bernstein this summer calculated that Wizz has even lower costs than Ryanair, although O’Leary 
dismissed this as “bullshit” to the Financial Times. 
And while easyJet’s orange livery and the charismatic antics of its founder and largest shareholder Sir Stelios Haji-
Ioannou meant the carrier was the poster child of the no-frills airline revolution in the 1990s, it now offers a more 
expensive service with the aim of  capturing business from the national flag carriers at more expensive airports. 
A deal would, therefore, have “undermined the purity and execution” that Wizz has demonstrated over the past 
decade as it has grown, while keeping costs down, said Mark Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody.
For easyJet, the move suggests it may be vulnerable to a takeover as it occupies an uncomfortable position in the 
region between the budget airlines and the more expensive legacy carriers, but without their large intercontinental 
networks, one veteran airline executive said. 
Speaking at an industry event in July, Franke himself said he believed “inbetweener” airlines that are neither flag 
carrier nor ultra-low cost faced problems as the industry emerges from the crisis. 
“I think that’s a difficult business model . . . You do not want to end up in the middle,” he said. 
The news of the approach also came with the announcement that easyJet was planning a £1.2bn rights issue and a 
new $400m revolving credit facility from its banks to strengthen its balance sheet.
European airlines jostle for position as they look beyond pandemic
This may at least give the carrier the firepower to take up opportunities presented by the pandemic, with analysts 
saying it has more than enough liquidity to survive an extended period of travel restrictions.
Significantly, Lundgren on Thursday identified take-off and landing slots in cities across Europe, including Paris and 
Amsterdam that have become available as other airlines retreat. 
“I believe this is really a once in a lifetime opportunity,” he said, echoing the view of rival Varadi. 
The equity raise could have another positive impact for the group’s leadership, diluting the shares of founder Sir 
Stelios, a constant thorn in the carrier’s side over the past few years. 
With a 25 per cent stake, he has waged a war against management and the board over the size of the airline’s fleet. 
Last year he lost his attempt to oust four directors, including the airline’s chair and chief executive. 
But he is unlikely to participate in the heavily diluted equity raise and expects his stake to fall to about 15 per cent, a 
person familiar with his thinking told the FT, lessening his influence over the company. 
In short, there are positives and negatives to be drawn from the latest manoeuvrings for both Wizz and easyJet, 
with a European airline industry preparing for a new phase after the devastation caused by the pandemic.
Lundgren, for one, is phlegmatic about future disruption. “From an M&A transaction point of view, we’re not against 
that, but it has to deliver value for the shareholders. And this wasn’t even close to this.”
Load-Date: September 10, 2021
End of Document
EasyJet rejects takeover approach from rival Wizz Air
EasyJet rejects takeover approach from rival Wizz Air
 
FT.com
September 9, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 681 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Oliver Ralph
Body
EasyJet has rejected a takeover approach from rival Wizz Air, as the Hungarian carrier pursues an aggressive 
expansion into western Europe to take advantage of the worst crisis in the history of aviation. 
Luton-based easyJet said on Thursday that it had received an approach in a “low premium and highly conditional” 
all-share deal, which the board “had no hesitation in rejecting”.
The unsolicited approach was from Wizz Air, according to a person briefed on the matter.
Despite rejecting the approach, easyJet’s leadership believes consolidation in the airline industry following the 
pandemic is inevitable, said a different person familiar with the situation. 
The company refuses to rule out M&A in the future, indicating it might become a target or an acquirer, this person 
added. 
The group revealed the approach as it announced a £1.2bn rights issue to help it through the crisis, which is set to 
dilute the influence of founder and largest shareholder Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou.
Haji-Ioannou is unlikely to participate in the equity raise, which means his 25 per cent stake will be diluted, 
according to a person close to the businessman.
The news undermined the share price, which dropped 10 per cent to 706.80p by mid-afternoon in London. 
EasyJet rejects takeover approach from rival Wizz Air
With the company’s stock at half its pre-pandemic price, the offer, which was made in the past few weeks, 
“significantly undervalued” the group, said chief executive Johan Lundgren.
The carrier is no longer considering an offer, he added, stressing his confidence that easyJet can grow as the 
industry starts to recover from the pandemic. 
EasyJet did not comment on who made the approach and Wizz Air declined to comment.
A tie-up would have united two airlines that have pursued different strategies in the European short-haul market at a 
time when aviation is still reeling from the Covid-19 crisis. 
Wizz Air’s chief executive Jozsef Varadi has promised to use the crisis to expand aggressively into western Europe.
The carrier has grown rapidly over the past 10 years through an ultra-efficient business model, including particularly 
low staffing costs. It is one of a few airlines with shares trading above their pre-pandemic levels.
In contrast, easyJet does not have the sort of ultra-low-cost base to match Wizz Air or Europe’s other main budget 
airline Ryanair. Despite pioneering no-frills airlines of the 1990s, the airline has since shifted focus on to winning 
market share from national flag carriers such as British Airways, Air France-KLM and Lufthansa.
The rights issue is a sign of the continuing stress for airlines, with the carrier hoping it will help withstand “potential 
prolonged market challenges”, including the risk that travel restrictions last into 2022, the company said.
Haji-Ioannou, who supports the raise in principle but has clashed repeatedly with the current management, has 
previously said he would only put more money into the business if management agreed to trim the size of its fleet. 
The rights issue is priced at 410p a share, representing a deep discount of 36 per cent on the airline’s closing share 
price on Wednesday.
EasyJet lost more than £2bn during the crisis, including suffering its first annual loss in its 25-year history in 2020.
The company expects to fly less than two-thirds of its normal flight schedule for the rest of the year.
Despite the challenges, Lundgren said the carrier was in a position to grab market share from legacy airlines that 
face a longer and more difficult path to recovery. It has already identified take-off and landing slots that have 
become available as other airlines retreat, he said. 
The carrier had access to £2.9bn of liquidity at the end of June, having raised more than £5.5bn since the start of 
the crisis, including a £400m share placing in June 2020. 
Mark Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody, said the new funding “clearly resolves all issues with regards to its 
balance sheet”. 
“We didn’t feel they had to raise more cash at this time,” he added. 
Alongside the rights issue, easyJet said it had secured a new $400m revolving credit facility from its banks.
Load-Date: September 9, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair warns UK investors will be forced to sell shares
Ryanair warns UK investors will be forced to sell shares
 
FT.com
September 8, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 467 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Philip Stafford
Body
Ryanair has warned it will begin selling the shares of some of its UK investors after they broke its ownership rules 
that shifted after Brexit.
The Irish carrier said on Wednesday it has appointed a broker to begin the forced sale of around 1m shares 
purchased this year by non-EU nationals, mainly UK nationals or institutions that bought the stock on their behalf.
The airline has been forced into the drastic action by the UK’s departure from the Single Market at the start of the 
year. EU rules demand that airlines based in the bloc are majority owned and controlled by nationals of the bloc, 
Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein. This enables airlines to fly freely between two destinations within EU 
borders.
For nearly 20 years, Ryanair has barred non-EU individuals from buying shares in the company and reiterated its 
stance in the run-up to Britain’s departure. Institutions and individuals in the UK have been prevented from buying 
new shares since the start of the year.
UK shareholders who had held stock before January have been able to keep their holdings but are barred from 
attending or voting at annual meetings. The total held by UK investors amounts to a fraction of the more than 1.1bn 
Ryanair shares available on the market.
Ryanair warns UK investors will be forced to sell shares
Ryanair warned investors in February to begin disposing of their stock to comply with its rules. The airline said on 
Wednesday that the appointed broker will sell their shares in the market over the coming weeks, “independently of, 
and uninfluenced by, the company”.
“The net proceeds of such sale(s) will be transmitted to the relevant investors in due course,” it added. It also said it 
could begin further forced share sales “from time to time” in the future, without warning. 
The UK’s departure, and the lateness of the UK-EU trade agreement, left airlines scrambling to ensure they 
complied with the changing standards. Wizz Air also disenfranchised UK shareholders. 
The UK and EU agreed in December’s trading agreement to explore liberalising airline ownership rules to ease the 
burden on the industry, but are yet to announce any changes. 
The ownership rules have been one of the most significant hurdles the aviation industry faced since Brexit, which 
has also thrown up operational challenges for larger players such as Ryanair.
Smaller aviation companies  have complained that red tape including the need to apply for permits for non-
scheduled flights have hit their businesses just as they try to recover from Covid. 
Ryanair did not disclose whether the forced sales applied to institutional or individual investors, but one analyst said 
it would be a surprise if institutional investors had missed or ignored the new ownership rules. 
Investors from outside the EU are still able to trade Ryanair shares on Nasdaq, as global depositary receipts.
Load-Date: September 15, 2021
End of Document
Rome set to be told $900m loan to Alitalia breached EU state-aid rules
Rome set to be told $900m loan to Alitalia breached EU state-aid rules
 
FT.com
September 8, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 470 words
Byline: Javier Espinoza in Brussels and Miles Johnson in Rome
Body
Italy’s government breached EU state-aid rules when it gave €900m in rescue loans to Alitalia in 2017, according to 
a verdict set to be announced by Brussels.
The decision by EU competition authorities, which two people with direct knowledge of the matter said was set to be 
made public on Thursday, though that timing may slip, comes after a three-year investigation into whether  bridge 
loans to Alitalia illegally distorted competition in the bloc.
EU law prohibits a member state from granting a company financial support that gives it an advantage over its 
rivals. The current Italian government, which was not in office when the loans were made, declined to comment.
The decision spells the latest ignominious chapter for Alitalia, Italy’s perennially lossmaking flag carrier for 75 years. 
The Rome government has already been working with Margrethe Vestager, the EU competition chief, on a deal to 
allow a new airline to be created that will be independent of Alitalia.
Brussels will confirm the details of the new airline, known as Italia Transporto Aereo (ITA), which will start flying 
next month.
ITA will be economically independent and will not be liable for any illegal state aid received by Alitalia in recent 
years, people with direct knowledge of the plans said.
Rome set to be told $900m loan to Alitalia breached EU state-aid rules
The new carrier will be able to buy part of Alitalia’s fleet and a reduced number of landing slots as part of the deal 
stuck between Italy and Brussels to allow the new company to operate, these people added. ITA will also be able to 
bid for the right to trade under the name Alitalia.
Alitalia has faced financial difficulties for decades and has not posted an annual net profit since the start of the 
millennium. Rome took full control of the airline during the Covid-19 pandemic, when aviation was hit by strict curbs 
on travel to control the spread of the virus. 
Other European governments  also put funds into national carriers during the pandemic. Michael O’Leary, chief 
executive of Ryanair, compared Germany’s Lufthansa to a “crack cocaine junkie”.
Brussels is still to rule on a separate  €400m government loan given to Alitalia to help it streamline its operations as 
it tried to sell assets in 2019. Opening that inquiry last year, the commission raised “serious doubts” about whether 
the aid was in line with state-aid rules.
This year Mario Draghi, Italy’s prime minister, joked that he considered Alitalia “a family thing, a little expensive”, 
referring to its emotional connection with Italians as well as its sizeable losses.
Draghi’s new unity government has embarked on a vastly ambitious programme of national reform to relaunch 
Italy’s stagnant domestic economy, including sweeping changes to the country’s legal system and bureaucracy.
The new version of the airline, he said, had to “be supported by its own wings, without subsidies”.
Load-Date: September 8, 2021
End of Document
Zurich Insurance joins corporate squeeze on air travel to cut emissions
Zurich Insurance joins corporate squeeze on air travel to cut emissions
 
FT.com
September 7, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 494 words
Byline: Ian Smith and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
One of the world’s largest insurers Zurich has pledged to slash emissions from air travel, the latest big global 
employer to seize on working practices introduced during the pandemic to cut its carbon footprint. 
The Swiss company said on Tuesday that from next year it would cut emissions generated from flights for 
employees to 70 per cent below pre-pandemic levels, one of a number of changes designed to help the group meet 
an existing goal of halving its greenhouse gas emissions by 2025.
Zurich, which has its headquarters in the Swiss city and employs 55,000 people in more than 200 countries, said it 
would achieve the target by holding fewer internal meetings that involved travel, and continue to do more customer 
and investor meetings using video conference technology. 
“The experience of the global pandemic has shown us a pathway to improving many aspects of our daily and 
working lives, and there’s no going back,” chief executive Mario Greco said in a statement.
The move by Zurich comes as airlines anxiously await the return of lucrative business travel. The pandemic has 
forced companies to overhaul how they do business, replacing face-to-face meetings with digital communication 
and cutting travel budgets.
Some airline executives such as Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary are expecting a full recovery, while others such as Shai 
Weiss, Virgin Atlantic’s chief executive, are braced for a 20 per cent reduction in the coming years.
Zurich Insurance joins corporate squeeze on air travel to cut emissions
Several large European companies have said they will reduce business travel. The UK’s Lloyds Banking Group has 
pledged to keep carbon dioxide emissions from travel to under than 50 per cent of 2019 levels, while Dutch bank 
ABN Amro is aiming to halve its air travel compared with 2017 over the next five years. Consultancies Deloitte and 
PwC, and consumer group Nestle, have also pledged to reduce travel.
A permanent reduction would be a big blow to hotel groups and airlines, given that corporate travel can generate up 
to 75 per cent of airlines’ revenues on some international flights, according to PwC.
Zurich said it hoped to go fully digital in its customer communications by 2025. By then, it said, petrol-fuelled 
company cars would also be removed from the group’s fleet. New company cars were to be either electric or hybrid, 
with immediate effect.
Other employees would continue to perform client tasks remotely, as they had been doing during the pandemic, the 
insurer said. One example is the company’s risk engineers, who perform assessments of the threats facing 
customers including hazards such as fire and floods. These engineers have been conducting site inspections 
through video-streaming technology that allows them to capture photos, mark up problems and chat with 
customers.
Together with other new energy efficiency and sustainability pledges, Zurich said the new measures would reduce 
carbon dioxide emissions from its operations by more than 40,000 metric tonnes, equivalent to 20 per cent of 2019 
levels.
Load-Date: September 8, 2021
End of Document
Belarus activists given decade-long jail terms for roles in Lukashenko protests
Belarus activists given decade-long jail terms for roles in Lukashenko 
protests
 
FT.com
September 6, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 557 words
Byline: Max Seddon in Moscow
Body
A court in Belarus sentenced two leading opposition activists to decade-long prison sentences on Monday for 
leading a protest movement against the country’s strongman president Alexander Lukashenko.
Maria Kolesnikova masterminded a campaign against Lukashenko in last year’s presidential election and then led 
protests against his dubious landslide victory. She was sentenced to 11 years in prison at a closed trial in Minsk, 
Belarus’s capital.
Maxim Znak, a lawyer who served with Kolesnikova on an opposition leadership council, was sentenced to 10 years 
in a maximum-security facility on the same charges, which included “plotting to seize state power unconstitutionally” 
and “creating an extremist group”.
The punishments indicate how Lukashenko, who has ruled Belarus with an iron fist since 1994, has used force to 
secure his hold on the nation of 9.5m after the protests rattled his rule last year.
Security forces dispersed rallies calling for Lukashenko to hand over power — the largest of which attracted about 
200,000 people — and arrested 35,000 protesters. Many said they were beaten and tortured while in custody. 
Human rights groups estimate Belarus is holding more than 650 political prisoners.
The crackdown has made Lukashenko, who accused the west of trying to engineer his downfall or assassinate him, 
an international pariah and driven him into the arms of his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin.
Belarus activists given decade-long jail terms for roles in Lukashenko protests
The US and EU refused to recognise the election result, which gave Lukashenko 80 per cent of the vote. They also 
sanctioned Belarus for the post-election violence and for forcing the landing of a Ryanair flight carrying a prominent 
dissident blogger.
The EU on Monday said it “deplores the continuous blatant disrespect by the Minsk regime of the human rights and 
fundamental freedoms of the people of Belarus” and called for the activists’ release.
“The EU will continue its efforts to promote accountability for the brutal repression by the Belarusian authorities,” the 
bloc added in a statement.
Putin and Lukashenko, whose relationship had hitherto been frosty, have met five times since the protests and held 
several phone calls to discuss strengthening ties.
The two presidents plan to sign a “road map” of secretly negotiated integration plans in Moscow on Thursday, then 
observe major joint military exercises on the countries’ borders with the EU.
A former flautist in Belarus’s philharmonic orchestra, Kolesnikova, 39, was a campaign manager for former banker 
Viktor Babariko. He is in prison after being sentenced to 14 years’ imprisonment for bribery and tax evasion. 
After Babariko and several other opposition candidates were barred from running, Kolesnikova joined forces with 
Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, the wife of another jailed presidential contender, to mount a surprising challenge to 
Lukashenko.
Tsikhanouskaya claimed to have won the vote but fled Belarus days later, saying the country’s feared KGB had 
threatened her family.
When masked men bundled Kolesnikova into a van, drove her to Belarus’s border with Ukraine and told her she 
would have to leave “alive or in pieces”, she ripped up her passport so they could not deport her.
“We demand the immediate release of Maria & Maksim, who aren’t guilty of anything,” Tskihanouskaya wrote on 
Twitter. “It’s terror against Belarusians who dare to stand up to the regime.”
Load-Date: September 7, 2021
End of Document
Why airline schemes for easing guilt over flying are dodgy
Why airline schemes for easing guilt over flying are dodgy
 
FT.com
September 6, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 774 words
Byline: Jonathan Guthrie
Body
Forget Ryanair. British Airways is the real low-cost airline, at least for carbon offsets. The UK flag carrier offers 
these to passengers at almost half the price charged by its Irish rival for some of the same trips.
Both are pricing carbon at big discounts to what industrial companies pay to cover excess emissions. The airlines 
say they are giving passengers the chance to “fully offset” flights and go “carbon neutral” via payments to 
environmental projects.
Superficially, it is a triple win. Environmental charities need the money. Airlines want passengers to share the cost 
of giving aviation a greener gloss. Many travellers yearn to avoid what is called in German “Flugscham” — the guilt 
of contributing to climate change.
The snag is that prices are unrealistically low. If  offsets were marketed as financial products, regulators would be 
asking questions about the promises made.
Carbon calculators are at the heart of the issue. You can see why an increasing number of airlines, from JetBlue in 
the US to Lufthansa in Europe and Cathay in Asia, build these into online sales systems. For customers, it feels 
nice to hit a button and generate an offset price they can add to their flight package. Particularly when prices are so 
affordable.
Why airline schemes for easing guilt over flying are dodgy
BA, for example, was last week quoting £1.72 (€2) to offset a return trip in economy class from London to 
Alicante. Ryanair’s website quoted €5.67. BA’s offsets for long-haul trips are even cheaper per mile than short-haul 
offsets — under £10 to fly to Hong Kong and back
I calculate BA is pricing carbon at about €8 to €10 a tonne. I reckon Ryanair is closer to €18 per tonne. EU and UK 
industrial companies are, meanwhile, paying about €56 per tonne via emissions trading schemes.
Defenders of carbon offsets complain I am comparing apples and pears. They say governments limit the supply of 
permits to make emissions to push up prices. Quite so — unless prices are higher, there is no chance climate 
change will be arrested.
It is questionable whether many of the carbon sequestration projects that provide cheap offset certificates have the 
financial heft to lock up as much of the stuff as claimed.
One scheme I looked at provides clean drinking water in Africa, for example. Sinking boreholes and digging wells 
are great projects that are well worth backing. But I am unconvinced by the argument that these qualify as offsets 
by reducing heavily the amount of wood burnt to sterilise drinking water. Years ago, I lived in an Indian village as a 
development volunteer. People there did not have the fuel or the time to boil drinking water.
Forestry schemes look like a clearer way to reduce carbon, by turning it into trees. But in developed nations these 
often “preserve” woodlands which might not be cut down anyway. Planting trees where they are absent looks like a 
better bet. After all, a tree supposedly sequesters upwards of 10kg of carbon a year, getting it to a running total of 
about a tonne in a century.
Logic peters out, however, when you ponder the task facing latter-day Johnny Appleseeds. Suppose they sought to 
plant enough trees to soak up all aviation’s yearly emissions. My back-of-an-envelope figuring suggests these 
gallant arboriculturists would need to cover an area roughly the size of Norway with saplings before protecting them 
from loggers, drought and  wildfires for the requisite 100 years. I doubt you can do that for €10 per tree.
Sola Zheng, of the International Council on Clean Transportation, a US non-profit organisation, argues airlines 
should focus on alternative fuels and using them efficiently.
Airlines would riposte that they are already doing that. My feeling is that voluntary carbon offset schemes could help 
build public awareness of the cost of arresting climate change — if they used credible numbers and were more 
transparent.
First, airlines need to disclose clearly the assumptions behind their online calculators. Second, these gizmos need 
to spit out a carbon price somewhere roughly in the same postcode as the figure produced by emissions trading 
schemes. Aviation bodies can help by setting tougher guidelines.
There is at present no push for carbon offsets to be regulated like financial products. That is just as well given the 
likely overheads. But it is time for the industry to be far more realistic about what it is marketing and for how much.
Letters in response to this article:
 One type of aviation offset is a flight of fancy /  From Adrian Gane, Sustainability Adviser, Etihad Airways, Abu 
Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
 Offset prices for aviation decarbonisation look puny / From Matthew Stone, Managing Director, PRIMA, London 
EC2, UK
Load-Date: September 21, 2021
End of Document
UK air services group Menzies says travel recovery is gaining pace
UK air services group Menzies says travel recovery is gaining pace
 
FT.com
September 1, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 562 words
Byline: Sylvia Pfeifer
Body
John Menzies, the aviation services group, said the recovery in international travel was gaining pace on 
Wednesday as it struck a cautiously optimistic note.
But the UK group said volumes for its ground services and fuelling business remained muted and were unlikely to 
return to pre-pandemic levels for another two years.
The cautious optimism was in contrast to the bullish predictions 24 hours earlier of Ryanair chief executive Michael 
O’Leary, who expects his low-cost carrier to return to pre-pandemic passenger numbers this winter. 
Volumes for ground services at Menzies were 62 per cent lower in the first half of the year compared with the same 
period in 2019, while fuelling services dropped 45 per cent.
However, air cargo services were more resilient, with volumes handled for the period 9 per cent above 2019 levels. 
John Geddes, corporate affairs director at the FTSE 250 group, said the company, which provides cargo handling 
services, refuelling and aircraft maintenance at more than 200 airports around the world, was generally “very 
positive” but that “you’ve got to be realistic as well”. 
“We are still looking at a business that is 60 per cent down on volumes from 2019. We see that returning and it is 
just a question when that returns.”
Geddes said volumes in the UK in particular remained “very, very low”. 
UK air services group Menzies says travel recovery is gaining pace
The company, along with other UK air services groups, is continuing to lobby ministers for further support. 
The government in January announced the launch of a new scheme for  commercial airports and ground handlers 
in England affected by the drop in travel. The scheme provides support up to the equivalent of a company’s 
business rates liabilities or Covid-19 losses, whichever is lower, for the 2020-21 financial year.
According to Geddes, however, the scheme’s design meant it was “unfortunately 99 per cent fit for airports and 1 
per cent fit for handlers” as the latter were services businesses without property. 
Geddes was speaking as the company announced it had  swung back into profit in the first six months of the year 
as it benefited from the results of a restructuring programme as well as government support during the coronavirus 
pandemic. 
It said pre-tax profit for the six months to the end of June was £4.7m compared with a pre-tax loss of £80.1m for the 
first half of 2020. 
Underlying pre-tax profits, excluding exceptional and other one-off items, were £10.9m compared with a loss of 
£48.7m the year before. However, revenues for the period fell to £415.8m, compared with £431.5m in 2020.
Shares were up 2 per cent to 329p by early afternoon on Wednesday. 
Geddes said the restructuring would deliver up to £25m of annualised cost savings on a permanent basis. As a 
result, the company would be in a “more profitable business once volumes return”. 
The company would continue to look to expand, in particular in emerging markets, and was also looking at bolt-on 
acquisitions. In May, it raised £22m in a share placing to bolster its plans. 
On Tuesday, Ryanair’s O’Leary said: “The recovery has been very strong.” He claimed “no airline has recovered as 
quickly as we have” after estimating that Ryanair carried just over 10.5m customers in August.
Between November to March, O’Leary expected Ryanair to hit pre-pandemic passenger levels on a monthly basis. 
Monthly numbers are currently running at 85 per cent of pre-Covid levels.
Load-Date: September 1, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair predicts return to pre-pandemic passenger numbers this winter
Ryanair predicts return to pre-pandemic passenger numbers this winter
 
FT.com
August 31, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 568 words
Byline: Harry Dempsey
Body
Ryanair expects to return to pre-pandemic passenger numbers this winter, as Europe’s largest airline banks on a 
“very strong recovery” in travel.
The low-cost carrier has launched 14 new routes from London for this winter and will slash the prices of its flights to 
encourage passengers to step back on board.
“The recovery has been very strong,” said Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair. He claimed that “no airline 
has recovered as quickly as we have” after estimating that Ryanair carried just over 10.5m customers in August.
He expected the airline to sustain those numbers in September and October, with the launch of new routes from 
Stansted and Luton airports to locations including Grenoble, Turin, Naples and Helsinki, which will help to create 
500 new jobs. 
Between November to March, O’Leary expected Ryanair to hit pre-pandemic passenger levels on a monthly basis. 
Monthly numbers are currently running at 85 per cent of pre-Covid levels.
The airline is then expected to exceed its annual pre-pandemic level of about 150m travellers in the year to March 
2023. 
Ryanair is planning an aggressive expansion: it will receive 55 Boeing 737 Max aircraft this winter and the same 
number each year until 2025. Its fleet will expand to 600 aircraft by the end of the 2026 financial year, up from more 
than 450.
Ryanair predicts return to pre-pandemic passenger numbers this winter
Jet2, another UK low-cost carrier, also showed increasing confidence in the recovery in air travel as it unveiled a 
deal to buy dozens of Airbus A321 NEO aircraft to meet expected growth and to refresh its fleet.
The order is for 36 planes worth $4.9bn — although the Leeds-based group said it negotiated significant discounts 
— that will be delivered between 2023 and 2028. Jet2 has the option to extend the deal to 60 aircraft.
However O’Leary predicted that it would take until the summer of next year for prices to return to normal levels. 
“There’s a lot of pent-up demand there,” he said. “The pent-up demand will take advantage of low pricing, pricing 
will then begin to work its way back up to pre-pandemic levels.” 
He added that the UK’s traffic light system was holding back more travellers from going abroad because of the 
uncertainty. “The UK is lagging behind,” he told the Financial Times. “The traffic light system serves no purpose any 
more.”
The Irish airline has emerged from the pandemic in a relatively robust position because of its lower cost base as 
well as the collapse or financial problems of rivals such as Thomas Cook and TAP Air Portugal. 
O’Leary estimated that Europe would have 20 per cent less short-haul flight capacity as a result of the pandemic 
devastation on the airline industry. He added that Ryanair was not encountering staffing problems for pilots and 
cabin crew as some of its rivals were. 
In response to reports that British Airways was considering replacing its short-haul operations with  low-cost ones at 
Gatwick, O’Leary said it was “the very definition of insanity” and that “no legacy airline has ever managed” to 
succeed in producing a successful low-cost airline.
O’Leary said Ryanair was in talks with Boeing to buy its 737 Max 10 jets for delivery after its current arrangement 
expired, but there was a “meaningful gap” between the aircraft manufacturer and the airline on price.
He said disruption on transatlantic flights as EU ministers reinstate travel restrictions on the US would benefit short-
haul travel volumes but keep prices depressed.
Load-Date: September 1, 2021
End of Document
British Airways hopes it’s third time lucky for low-cost plan
British Airways hopes it’s third time lucky for low-cost plan
 
FT.com
August 27, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 783 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger
Body
When British Airways moved its short-haul flights from Gatwick to Heathrow last year to survive the pandemic 
downturn, some wondered if the UK’s flag carrier  would ever return in full force. 
The UK’s second airport, home base of low-cost rival easyJet, had always been a tougher challenge than 
Heathrow, its main hub of operations and the link to its once lucrative transatlantic routes.
“It was always seen as a difficult business because of [BA’s] cost structure,” said Chris Tarry, aviation consultant at 
Ctaira consultancy. 
Over the past decade, easyJet’s share of flights from Gatwick increased by 25 per cent, while BA’s declined by a 
third, according to Tarry.
Now BA is aiming to return to short-haul flying from Gatwick and, according to two people close to the subject, has 
been in negotiations with unions for several months over more flexible terms and conditions to support a new, lower 
cost airline operating from the airport.
However, lower cost does not mean low cost. People with knowledge of the situation said that the group was 
looking at setting up services “in line with BA brand guidelines”. 
This suggested that the airline would not try to replicate the offers and models operated by Ryanair, easyJet and 
Wizz Air, but focus instead on leveraging advantages such as brand, reliability, flight times and loyalty, said 
analysts.
British Airways hopes it’s third time lucky for low-cost plan
Sean Doyle, BA chief executive, suggested in late July that the group would have to find a lower cost model if it was 
to operate a sustainable business out of the airport best known for its leisure traffic.
“We’re looking at what are [the] options are for summer ’22 at Gatwick,” he told analysts and investors at the results 
meeting of parent group IAG late last month. “We need to be competitive because the market will be very 
competitive coming out at the other end of the pandemic.” 
Doyle was referring not just to the inevitable price competition that will intensify as airlines seek to woo passengers 
on to their aircraft, but to the stated ambitions of the most aggressive low-cost carriers to snatch market share as 
demand comes back. 
Ryanair has some 200 737 max single aisle on order and chief executive Michael O’Leary has been bellicose about 
his plans to grow quickly while competitors are still recovering from the financial damage wrought by the pandemic. 
Wizz Air, the Hungarian upstart, has declared its own ambition to take 20 per cent of the take off and landing slots 
at Gatwick. BA has 18 per cent of the slots, while before the pandemic easyJet had about 45 per cent.
BA had a choice, said Stephen Furlong, aviation analyst at Davy, the Irish stockbroker and asset manager. “The 
choice is to cede and go back to Heathrow, or to hold their ground, keep their slots and compete,” he said. 
But competing with low-cost operators is notoriously difficult for legacy carriers. BA has twice tried and failed to run 
a low-cost operation of its own.
“Low-cost carriers drive down overheads by sweating assets more efficiently,” said Martin Chalk, acting general 
secretary of the pilots union Balpa. 
“Aircraft don’t go there and back, they tramp around Europe. Network airlines don’t have that ability because their 
routes are designed as an integrated network product . . . marrying up waves of European flights with waves of 
Atlantic flights. Network airlines will always struggle to compete on price against the low-cost carriers for that 
reason.”
Chalk, who is not involved in the discussions with BA, said the union welcomed the prospect of a new airline that 
could re-employ the pilots who have been grounded by the pandemic. It may mean different terms and conditions, 
but increased flexibility was already a feature of labour agreements at several airlines, he said. 
At easyJet, for example, some pilots work full time in peak summer periods and 50 per cent in the slower winter 
months. 
People with knowledge of the discussions said this kind of flexibility was among the topics being discussed by BA 
and unions. It is expected that there will also be a shift in balance from fixed pay to remuneration based on the 
hours flown. 
In the end, returning to Gatwick — where customers mainly expect to fly directly to their destination rather than 
connect to another flight — would pitch BA head to head with easyJet, and potentially in future with Wizz. Relying 
on brand, reliability and loyalty would not be sufficient, said Furlong. 
“The only way they can compete is to have some version of labour agreement and flexibility that their competitor set 
has,” he said. “Most short-haul flights at Gatwick are point to point . . . and those more traditional BA competitor 
sets are not sufficient. You have to be competitive on the cost side.”
Load-Date: August 27, 2021
End of Document
Lukashenko’s ever closer Russian ties raise risks for Putin
Lukashenko’s ever closer Russian ties raise risks for Putin
 
FT.com
August 23, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 947 words
Byline: Nastassia Astrasheuskaya in Moscow
Body
A range of western countries tightened economic  sanctions against Belarus this month, one year after mass 
protests first roiled the regime of President Alexander Lukashenko.
In response, Lukashenko turned again to Vladimir Putin, asking the Russian president for debt relief on a $1.5bn 
loan agreed with Moscow last year.
As the west has sought to isolate Lukashenko, the authoritarian leader has put himself ever more in Putin’s debt. 
Yet while that may have suited Putin so far, Minsk’s increasing dependence on Moscow comes with growing risks 
for the Kremlin too, analysts say.
“A weak Lukashenko is good for Moscow as it can expect greater conditionality. But not if he is so weak as to 
destabilise the situation in the streets,” said Alex Kokcharov, principal country risk analyst at IHS in London.
The Belarusian strongman’s stand-off with the west escalated after he launched a violent crackdown on popular 
protests sparked by the August 2020 presidential election that critics had described as rigged.
Since then, Lukashenko has referred to Putin as a partner, a friend and, most recently, a brother, while using every 
means available to repress dissent at home and to push back against his European opponents abroad. 
He has forced a Ryanair flight bound for Lithuania to land in Minsk, and has also  dispatched migrants to Belarus’s 
borders with Europe as part of what Brussels has called a “hybrid warfare” campaign against the EU. 
Lukashenko’s ever closer Russian ties raise risks for Putin
Last week, Poland sent 900 soldiers to stop migrants, some of them Afghans, from crossing over from Belarus.
Lukashenko’s confrontation with the west may suit Putin’s purposes in that it weakens the EU and buttresses 
Russia’s strategic position by providing Moscow with a buffer. But analysts say it comes with potential political and 
economic costs for Putin as well.
Most immediately, Baltic states have warned that Belarus’s “weaponisation” of migration to the EU and imminent 
military exercises involving Russian and Belarusian troops could lead to a  border “incident” with Nato troops. 
Lukashenko even appears to relish that prospect. 
“They [the west] should be afraid,” he declared after the western sanctions were announced. “If needed, there will 
be not just a base here [in Belarus]. All the Russian military forces will be based [here] in case of a new world war 
outbreak.” 
Then there is the risk to Putin if he continues to support Lukashenko only for the Belarusian president to  totter and 
fall. Rising Belarusian protests could also spark internal unease in Russia and poison Moscow’s reputation among 
Lukashenko’s internal opponents and any eventual successor.
“Last year it was clear that many in Russia were following the protests in Belarus with great interest and Putin and 
his circle are extremely paranoid about protests at home,” said Eleanor Bindman, an expert in eastern European 
politics at Manchester Metropolitan University.
Mindful of the risks, Russia’s foreign ministry has so far trod a careful line. It has said that “Russia will continue 
providing assistance to brotherly Belarus and its people in resisting the western pressure and asserting its 
sovereignty.” 
But it has also admitted the existence of “demand for certain political change” in Belarusian society.
“What Putin should be doing is leaving Belarus alone, because for the Belarusian people it is not the struggle 
between Russia and the west, very explicitly not so,” said Sofya Orlosky, deputy director of Europe and Eurasia 
programmes at Freedom House in New York.
As well as the political risks, Moscow faces potential economic and financial costs from the sanctions placed on 
Belarus over the past year by the US, EU, UK, Canada and Switzerland. 
Russia is Belarus’s biggest trading partner, accounting for about half of its exports and imports, and Russian 
companies have stakes in key Belarusian businesses, including the Mozyr refinery, one of the country’s two oil 
processing enterprises.
Those ties may soon be strengthened when Belarus’s balance of payments position is bolstered by a $900m 
payment from the IMF. The funds form part of the  IMF’s $650bn issuance of special drawing rights to all its 
members to help fund their response to Covid-19 and are due to become available on August 23. 
US lawmakers and opponents of Lukashenko have objected, but other countries out of favour with the west such as 
Iran and Russia will also get allocations. 
Nonetheless, the western sanctions — especially on sectors such as potash, Belarus’s biggest foreign currency 
earner — will still bite in Russia.
“Any [Russian] company working with Belarus’s state companies, banks, institutions . . . will automatically get on 
the US sanctions list,” said IHS’s Kokcharov, noting that a similar process hit European companies that traded with 
Tehran after the US imposed sanctions on Iran over its nuclear programme. 
“I can easily imagine a large number of Russian companies preferring to fully stop economic activity with state 
counterparts in Belarus,” he added.
Lukashenko’s ever closer Russian ties raise risks for Putin
The EU, UK and Swiss sanctions already include Russian oil businessman Mikhail Gutseriev, whose family holding 
has a stake in Belarusian potassium processor Slavkali. 
Russia may face more of this indirect pressure as western countries ratchet up the pressure on Minsk, especially if 
Lukashenko exploits any outflow of refugees from Afghanistan by continuing his policy of funnelling Middle Eastern 
migrants towards the EU.
“It is important to raise the stakes for Putin and his oligarchs of dealing with Lukashenko,” said Freedom House’s 
Orlosky. “If the west can collectively raise the costs . . . of supporting authoritarian regimes, it will send a very 
powerful message that this is just not worth it.”
Load-Date: August 23, 2021
End of Document
Short cuts: health resorts target long Covid and the London airport at risk of losing all passenger flights
Short cuts: health resorts target long Covid and the London airport at risk of 
losing all passenger flights
 
FT.com
August 13, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 440 words
Byline: Tom Robbins
Body
Austria Lanserhof, the health resort in the village of Lans, just outside Innsbruck, has launched a series of 
packages aimed at tackling long Covid. The resort, which opened in 1984, is known for its detoxification and 
“fasting cure” programmes but has expanded to offer a wide range of medical treatments and has launched 
outposts in Hamburg, London and Bavaria. The new long Covid programmes feature regular examinations and 
treatment sessions including breathing therapy and simulated altitude training, as well as fasting and nutritional 
analysis designed to reduce inflammation. The two-week programmes cost from €8,817 per person, including 
accommodation. Lanserhof isn’t alone in seeing a potential market in post-Covid therapy — the new Rakxa spa in 
Bangkok and the SHA Wellness Clinic in Alicante, Spain, have both also launched packages.  lanserhof.com
Greece August’s airline schedules appear to show Greece is winning the race for tourism recovery in Europe, 
despite the wildfires afflicting the area north of Athens. According to analysis by the aviation consultancy OAG, the 
total number of seats on scheduled flights within Europe this month is about 31 per cent below August 2019. In 
Greece, however, total August capacity has recovered to pre-pandemic levels, with international flights actually 2 
per cent above the same month in 2019. 
Driving Greek tourism’s success this summer is strong demand from Germany, Switzerland and France, with flight 
capacity up 25, 26 and 31 per cent respectively, compared with August 2019. Greece’s consistent messaging that it 
was open for tourism seems to have paid dividends: August flight capacity to rival summer-sun destination Spain is 
down 25 per cent on 2019, while the UK is 55 per cent down.  oag.com
Short cuts: health resorts target long Covid and the London airport at risk of losing all passenger flights
Essex London Southend, an award-winning airport which in the past decade has cut the ribbon on a new terminal, 
rail station, hotel, control tower and extended runway, could be left without a single passenger flight on its departure 
boards later this year. The airport attracted major investment as a potential solution to growing pressure on runway 
slots in the London area, and saw passenger numbers rise to 2.1m in 2019, but the pandemic-induced slump in 
demand has seen a series of airlines pull out. Easyjet stopped flying from Southend in summer 2020; Ryanair has 
now announced it will cease operations from the airport at the end of October. That leaves Southend without any 
currently scheduled flights for November, though the airport hopes Wizz Air will begin services to Bucharest.  
southendairport.com
Follow  @ftweekend on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first
Load-Date: August 13, 2021
End of Document
Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya: the Belarus dictatorship is destined to collapse
Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya: the Belarus dictatorship is destined to collapse
 
FT.com
August 13, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 863 words
Byline: Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya
Body
The writer is the leader of the democratic movement of Belarus
“I screamed, smothered by a black bag, and they laughed. They said: ‘Don’t scream. Your Tsikhanouskaya won’t 
hear you.’”
This is how Stsiapan Latypau, a political prisoner in Belarus,  recalled his arrest in his final statement in a Minsk 
“court” last Thursday. His speech was dignified and eloquent, devoid of spite and hate, even as he spoke of 
beatings and torture. 
I do hear you, Stsiapan. And I urge the democratic community of the world to hear you, too. 
Stsiapan’s story illustrates the crisis my country is going through. Since the stolen presidential election of August 
2020, more than 35,000 people have been  detained in Belarus. Alexander Lukashenko’s regime has launched 
4,691 politically motivated criminal cases. Viasna, a human rights centre,  recognises 631 people as political 
prisoners and has  received 4,644 allegations of torture. As many as 10 people have lost their lives.
This campaign of  relentless repression is the regime’s response to a non-violent uprising that has swept Belarus 
since last August. On Monday we will celebrate the anniversary of the “Freedom March”, when more than 200,000 
people in Minsk  took to the streets in an entirely peaceful action to demand new, free elections and to protest 
against regime-inspired violence. Since then, protests have taken place almost every day all over Belarus.
Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya: the Belarus dictatorship is destined to collapse
Besides their repression of innocent citizens, the authorities in Belarus have become a security problem for the rest 
of Europe. In May, the regime’s agents  hijacked a Ryanair plane en route from Athens to Vilnius to capture Roman 
Protasevich, a citizen-journalist who was on board.
 Vitaly Shishov, a Belarusian community leader, was found hanged in a park in Kyiv, capital of Ukraine, two weeks 
ago. The regime is facilitating  the passage of migrants from Iraq to Lithuania, Latvia and Poland. As a result, 
Lithuania and Latvia have declared a state of emergency. These events demonstrate that unless Belarusians are 
safe, no other European citizens are safe either.
In this situation, I urge the democratic community to stay true to our common values and to take action. As I have 
emphasised in my meetings with  US president Joe Biden at the White House and with  Boris Johnson, the British 
prime minister, in London, Belarus stands today on the frontline of a broader struggle between autocracy and 
democracy.
Democratic countries have a moral obligation to support us. Assistance programmes for civil society and 
independent media in Belarus are of crucial importance. We also welcome the sanctions announced by the  British 
government, the  EU and the Biden administration on the regime’s enterprises and its representatives that are 
funding and carrying out repressions. Sanctions deprive the regime of resources, destroy the corrupt schemes of its 
cronies and split the elites. However, for sanctions to be effective, it is vital to remove loopholes in them.
Lawlessness caused by the impunity of the regime is the main reason why the people of Belarus are experiencing 
such suffering.  Sanctions are the most effective way to stop it. To the same end, the International Criminal Court 
should initiate proceedings on the crimes that the  Belarusian dictatorship is committing. The UN could start this 
process by putting Belarus on the agendas of the General Assembly and Security Council.
The  dictatorship is destined for collapse, even though the illegitimate ruler of Belarus, who has held the country in 
his grip since 1994, is trying to buy more time for himself. State propaganda has been promoting the idea of a 
referendum on  constitutional reform as a way to “move on” from the crisis. However, no solution is possible without 
dismantling the dictatorial system. At the same time, an attempt to fake reform might be the trigger that causes a 
collapse.
We, the democratic movement of Belarus, will be prepared. We have laid the groundwork for a way out of the crisis 
through holding free elections under international observation. We propose an international high-level conference 
that can lead to negotiations. The Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe is  ready to be a platform 
for dialogue on new elections.
I have met with the heads of state of 31 countries, and I have made 22 working visits to make sure that Belarus will 
have friends to rely on during the transition to democracy. We have worked together with the European 
Commission in Brussels to develop a  comprehensive plan of economic support for a future democratic Belarus.
We have drafted policies for the conduct of free and fair elections within 60 days. We are putting in place 
mechanisms for the release of political prisoners, for the rehabilitation of victims of regime repression and for the 
national reconciliation that will be essential after the democratic transition.
Belarus can and will be a success story of Europe. In 2020, we put our country on the map as a place defined by 
dignified, daring, peaceful people struggling for democracy. We have learnt that the path to freedom is long and 
difficult. But we are closer than ever to achieving it. We will not miss our chance.
Load-Date: August 16, 2021
End of Document
Business travel will not recover any time soon, but so what?
Business travel will not recover any time soon, but so what?
 
FT.com
August 8, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 698 words
Byline: Pilita Clark
Body
He was on the shortish side, probably in his forties, with pale hair, eyes of ice and the steely voice of a 
remorselessly officious prig.
“All your liquids have to go into one plastic bag no larger than 20 by 20 centimetres,” he said flatly, as I stood in the 
security line at Stansted airport last weekend.
I had two bags, both the wrong size, and inside one was an item the man declared he would be confiscating 
forthwith: roll-on mosquito repellent.
“But I’ve flown with this stuff for years!” I whined. “And where’s the rule that says a bag has to be 20 by 20 
centimetres?” Behind me in the queue, I felt eyes starting to roll as people realised they were in the presence of the 
worst type of traveller: the idiot kind.
The security man was quite correct. The bag size rule has been around since at least 2006, a Google search later 
showed, and though the insect repellent rules are less clear, I should have known better.
Not having been inside an airport for nearly 18 months was no real excuse. Nor was the unsettling dread that 
another official was about to pounce on an error lurking in the fat binders of Covid paperwork needed to get on the 
plane. Nor the fear that, if I ever managed to board the rammed Ryanair flight to Spain, I would be lucky to exit 
uninfected.
Business travel will not recover any time soon, but so what?
The whole experience left me with one overwhelming thought: if this is the future of flying, just for a summer 
holiday, business travel is going to be in trouble for quite a while.
Airline bosses predicting a “  renaissance” in business trips, as  Delta Air Lines’ Ed Bastian did in June, may be 
comforted by the idea that vacations are optional while work journeys are essential. 
But Covid has exposed a great unspoken truth about business travel: a lot of it was done for reasons that had 
nothing to do with business.
Pre-pandemic, a business trip offered the winning combination of getting out of the office and into a new place you 
had always wanted to visit — or an old one whose haunts you missed.
Unfairly, work trips also allowed one to avoid domestic drudgery while enhancing one’s importance. Of course you 
wanted to be home for that parent-teacher night next month but alas! You had to go to a dratted business 
conference in Aspen. Or Bali. Or Barcelona and all the other destinations that once lit up a work calendar with such 
glittering promise.
If you think this sounds overly cynical, consider what 3,850 business travellers in 25 global markets told researchers 
for  a survey commissioned by SAP Concur, a business that sells work travel management software.
An impressive 96 per cent were willing to return to business travel and 65 per cent were “very willing”. But when 
asked to name the personal reasons for wanting to get back in a business lounge, the 54 per cent who cited a 
desire to make connections with customers and colleagues were almost matched by the 52 per cent who said they 
wanted to “experience new places”.
In addition, 41 per cent admitted they were keen on “taking a break from their everyday life” and 19 per cent said 
they were simply looking forward to being able to dress up and go somewhere.
I do not blame them one bit. And while Covid has comprehensively shown how much of working life can be done 
easily, and cheaply, on a screen, business travel will never disappear completely.
Clearly it is better to turn up in person to, say, inspect a factory building before your company buys it, or persuade a 
client to sign a big contract with your firm instead of a hungry new rival.
Personally, I cannot wait to interview people face-to-face in their natural environments again, rather than over a 
screen.
But I also know that, before 2020, I would have thought it impossible to go through anything like an IPO from home 
on Zoom. Then I met the founder of a British company who has just done precisely that — very successfully.
The pandemic has a habit of turning predictions to dust, but if business travel recovers to anything like what it was 
any time soon, I will be seriously surprised.
Twitter:  @pilitaclark
Letter in response to this article:
 Business travel remains fundamental to economic growth /  From James Petter, Vice-President International, Pure 
Storage, Staines, Surrey, UK
Load-Date: May 11, 2022
End of Document
Virgin Atlantic plans London stock market listing
Virgin Atlantic plans London stock market listing
 
FT.com
August 8, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 497 words
Byline: Harry Dempsey
Body
Sir Richard Branson’s Virgin Atlantic Airways is planning to list in London in a bid to take advantage of investor 
expectations of a rapid recovery in international travel.
The UK-based airline has been presenting to fund managers about a listing on the London Stock Exchange as early 
as autumn, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The potential listing would mark the first time that Virgin Atlantic offers its shares to the public since its launch in 
1984 and it would align the British airline with its publicly traded competitors such as British Airways owner IAG, 
American Airlines and Cathay Pacific.
The company is aiming to bolster its balance sheet in case of any further unforeseen events that bring operations to 
a halt, after raising more than £1.5bn of financial support since last September to withstand the pandemic. It comes 
as a recovery in both business and holiday travel gathers momentum.
Bankers from Citi and Barclays have been appointed to lead the IPO, which was first reported by Sky News. Virgin 
Atlantic said “we’re not commenting on speculation”.
Branson would likely lose his status as majority shareholder, held through the British billionaire’s Virgin Group. The 
remaining 49 per cent of the company is owned by Delta Air Lines.
Border shutdowns during the Covid-19 pandemic have battered the airline industry, with Virgin Atlantic hit 
particularly hard by its reliance on transatlantic flights. 
Virgin Atlantic plans London stock market listing
Branson made pleas for state aid at the depths of the pandemic last year but unlike British Airways and easyJet, it 
did not access UK government funds after the government rebuffed an initial request for a bailout.
The airline was instead supported by shareholders, including Branson’s Virgin Group and US hedge fund Davidson 
Kempner Capital Management.
It has also been supported by a boom in its cargo business, but the group’s chief executive Shai Weiss warned in 
April of a permanent reduction in lucrative business travel.
Airlines such as Ryanair are now posturing aggressively to take market share as travellers set off on holidays and 
business trips once again. 
Virgin Atlantic has shaped itself up to list after undergoing a sweeping restructuring over the past year. It has cut 
more than £300m in annual costs by slashing its headcount by almost half to 5,700 people, exiting Gatwick to 
consolidate its operations at other major airports and retiring its Boeing 747 jumbo jets.
Bookings on its US-UK route have jumped 150 per cent since last Monday, when people travelling to England from 
the US and most European countries no longer had to quarantine if they had been fully vaccinated against 
coronavirus.
The industry is hoping for another uplift if the Biden administration loosens travel restrictions for arrivals from the UK 
and Europe. 
As well as shaping the airline up for the post-pandemic take off in air travel, access to a larger pool of capital would 
help the airline to endure future shocks that may cause travel demand to plummet.
Load-Date: August 8, 2021
End of Document
Alexander Lukashenko’s Belarus is a full-blown rogue regime
Alexander Lukashenko’s Belarus is a full-blown rogue regime
 
FT.com
August 3, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 600 words
Byline: The editorial board
Body
The “defection” of the Belarusian sprinter  Krystsina Tsimanouskaya is something that seems easier to imagine at 
the Tokyo Olympics of 1964 than at a Games being held in 2021. Hours after she took refuge in the Polish 
embassy, a Belarusian activist, Vitali Shishov, was  found hanged in a Kyiv park; his death is being investigated as 
a potential murder. If it was indeed a political hit, then this week’s events — after May’s  effective state hijacking of 
a Ryanair flight to seize another opposition activist — highlight how Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko has 
created a rogue regime at the heart of Europe.
The Tsimanouskaya case harks back to Soviet times. The 24-year-old sprinter complained on social media that 
coaches entered her for a relay she did not train for, as other Belarusian athletes had not completed enough anti-
doping tests to compete (the circumstances of which ought to be investigated). After team bosses tried to put her on 
a flight home because of what they called her “emotional, psychological state”, she was given protection by Tokyo 
police and offered a humanitarian visa by Warsaw.
There are echoes, too, of other strongman regimes: the president of the Belarus Olympic Committee is Viktor 
Lukashenko, the dictator’s son and presumptive heir — rather as Saddam Hussein’s son Uday once headed Iraq’s 
Olympic and football associations. The International Olympic Committee barred both Lukashenkos from Tokyo, 
after Belarusian athletes accused Minsk authorities of political discrimination and imprisonment. Athletes were 
prominent in the protests that erupted after Lukashenko claimed what was seen as a  fraudulent election victory, a 
year ago next week.
Alexander Lukashenko’s Belarus is a full-blown rogue regime
Up to 35,000 Belarusians have since been arrested. Allegations of torture are rife. Many young people are 
emigrating. Vitali Shishov, who went missing while running in Kyiv on Monday, headed the so-called Belarusian 
House in Ukraine, which helps émigrés fleeing persecution. Friends said Shishov had recently  been followed. So 
was the activist Roman Protasevich, before boarding the flight from Greece to his home in exile of Lithuania, which 
was diverted to Minsk by a bogus bomb scare.
The opposition clampdown betrays mounting paranoia on Lukashenko’s part. Critics say western sanctions only 
drive him into Russian president Vladimir Putin’s arms, while leaving Belarusians worse off. But Lukashenko has 
spent years playing Brussels off against Moscow, while only tightening his hold on power. Western countries can no 
longer tolerate his mistreatment of his own people and flouting of the law, at home and abroad.  Sviatlana 
Tsikhanouskaya, who many Belarusians believe was the real winner of last year’s election, has spent recent days 
urging Washington and London to  tighten sanctions.
They should pay heed. The EU is to be commended for going further than the US and the UK in imposing sanctions 
not just on  individuals, but  sectoral measures that ban imports of Belarusian oil products and potash sales — 
among the country’s most  lucrative exports. It also restricted issuance in the EU of new debt with a longer than 90-
day maturity for the Minsk government and some state-controlled groups.
But several loopholes which limit the effect of the EU potash ban need to be removed. As they did over Russia’s 
intervention in Ukraine, the US and UK should also impose sectoral measures on Belarus. Three decades after the 
Berlin Wall fell, the Belarus regime looks like a historical anomaly. Its people deserve western solidarity in pressing 
Lukashenko finally to heed the message voters sent him a year ago.
Load-Date: August 3, 2021
End of Document
Belarus opposition leader urges west to toughen sanctions
Belarus opposition leader urges west to toughen sanctions
 
FT.com
August 3, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 917 words
Byline: Katrina Manson in Washington
Body
Western nations need to tighten sanctions on Belarus to put pressure on President Alexander Lukashenko to 
restore democracy and end worsening repression, opposition leader  Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya told the Financial 
Times ahead of a visit to the UK.
That visit comes as Belarusian athlete Krystsina Tsimanouskaya  sought refuge at the Olympics in Japan after she 
said Belarusian officials tried to make her board a flight home against her will following her criticism of her coaches 
on social media. 
Tsikhanouskaya said that what happened to the Olympic runner was part of a wider crackdown against athletes in 
Belarus. Olympic authorities have banned Lukashenko from attending the Tokyo Games and frozen payments to 
the country’s Olympic Committee after Belarusian athletes accused his regime of political discrimination and 
imprisonment.
“Since August, dozens of athletes have been jailed, fired and forced to flee the country,” she said, adding that any 
criticism was seen as an attack on the government. “No athlete can feel safe — neither in Belarus nor abroad.”
Tsikhanouskaya now wants to enlist support from UK prime minister Boris Johnson to remove sanctions 
exemptions, which she says have blunted their impact, during a trip to London on Tuesday. This follows a 15-day 
tour in the US in which she met President Joe Biden.
Belarus opposition leader urges west to toughen sanctions
“We’re going to the UK to raise attention . . . to close loopholes in European sanctions,” she said. Tsikhanouskaya 
said incremental pressure would only lead to a more repressive path by the regime that “will be longer, with more 
victims”.
Downing Street declined to comment.
About 35,000 people have been arrested in Belarus, including Tsikhanouskaya’s husband Sergei Tikhanovsky, 
since the August 2020 polls, which were widely seen as flawed. Tikhanovsky was detained before the elections, 
prompting Tsikhanouskaya to run for the presidency in his place.
Ukrainian police on Tuesday said Belarusian activist Vitaly Shyshov, head of the Kyiv-based Belarus House, a 
support group for political refugees, was found hanged in a park 
Speaking on Ukrainian television, an acquaintance and fellow Belarus refugee who identified himself by the first 
name Yuriy ruled out suicide, pointing out that Shyshov had a broken nose.
“I suspect this was the action of the [Belarus] KGB . . . we knew they were hunting for us,” Yuriy said.
Western powers have threatened to escalate pressure on Belarus but have so far taken only incremental steps. 
Among recent moves, the UK, EU, US and Canada in June imposed asset freezes and travel bans on some 
Belarusians associated with the regime as punishment for the forced landing of a Ryanair plane in May. Belarusian 
authorities diverted the plane to Minsk, claiming there was a security threat, in order to arrest a dissident and his 
girlfriend.
The UK’s sanctions have also targeted a Belarusian oil product exporter, while the EU has imposed sectoral 
sanctions targeting insurance, tobacco, petroleum products and potash exports that make up a significant part of 
Belarusian revenues.
Tsikhanouskaya said she was grateful for extensive support from the international community since she fled 
Belarus last year after she was threatened with arrest following the disputed presidential election. But she argued 
that exclusions had significantly blunted the impact of the measures and is urging European powers to tighten 
existing sectoral sanctions and impose more.
“Of course our beloveds, our relatives, are in jails in awful conditions, being humiliated,” she said.
She also wants Washington to impose more extensive sanctions, arguing such measures — if co-ordinated — 
would be one of the most powerful ways of putting pressure on Lukashenko’s regime.
“Now it’s such a huge level of repression; every day, the number of political prisoners is increasing,” she said. She 
added that owing to the crackdown, she was not calling for street demonstrations on August 9, which marks a year 
since the elections.
During her visit to the US, Tsikhanouskaya also met secretary of state Antony Blinken, national security adviser 
Jake Sullivan, USAID chief Samantha Power and other senior members of the Biden administration.
“We discussed . . .[how the US] can be helpful in this fight between autocracy and democracy,” she said, adding 
that the main message she received from US officials was a willingness to “create multiple points of pressure on the 
regime”.
The Biden administration said in May that it would issue an executive order to give the US increased sanctions 
authority in Belarus, but has yet to impose sanctions under it. Sullivan indicated following his meeting with 
Tsikhanouskaya that more sanctions were forthcoming.
Biden made no mention of sanctions but endorsed Tsikhanouskaya’s mission, saying in a tweet after their meeting: 
“The United States stands with the people of Belarus in their quest for democracy and universal human rights.”
Belarus opposition leader urges west to toughen sanctions
Tsikhanouskaya said Biden had also asked after her husband during a “warm and human” meeting. “I just want to 
tell him: ‘Do not stop believing’,” she said of her husband. “I want him to know the whole world is with him.”
She also visited UN officials in New York, as well as diaspora figures, academics and corporate leaders in San 
Francisco and Los Angeles, some of whom expressed interest in investing in Belarus in the coming years.
“We are in the process of revolution but we have to think about the future,” she said.
Additional reporting by Jasmine Cameron-Chileshe in London and Roman Olearchyk in Kyiv
Load-Date: August 3, 2021
End of Document
Clouds lift as confidence returns to battered airline industry
Clouds lift as confidence returns to battered airline industry
 
FT.com
August 2, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1154 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
It has been a stream of bad news for Heathrow boss John Holland-Kaye over the past 18 months. The airport has 
lost nearly £3bn since the pandemic began and terminals have been mothballed, while Holland-Kaye has been 
engaged in frantic government lobbying to reopen UK borders.
But in the past few weeks, the black clouds hanging over aviation seem to be lifting to reveal at least chinks of blue 
sky, prompting Holland-Kaye to call a meeting of airlines and ground handlers with a new message: Make sure you 
are ready for flying to rebound in the coming months.
“I think we have come out of the phase where we just batten down the hatches,” he told the Financial Times.
This cautious optimism is slowly spreading across large parts of the ravaged airline industry, which has suffered its 
worst-ever crisis as one of the hardest-hit sectors in the pandemic, with executives betting vaccines and loosening 
travel restrictions have cleared the path to recovery.
Confidence is growing fastest in the US with carriers starting to report profits thanks to a buoyant domestic market, 
while in Europe the new upbeat mood has prompted the region’s airlines such as easyJet and Ryanair to plan a 
ramp-up in their flying schedules during the late summer. 
“We are in the midst of an unprecedented recovery,” Doug Parker, chief executive of American Airlines, told 
analysts on the latest quarterly earnings call. 
Clouds lift as confidence returns to battered airline industry
Willie Walsh, former head of British Airways owner International Airlines Group who runs global airline trade body 
Iata, said: “The recovery has definitely started in the second half, there are signs of things improving, restrictions 
being relaxed or removed, and we have to take positives from that.” 
It is a sharp change in fortunes for an industry that has been battered by the pandemic with global airlines losing a 
combined $125bn in 2020 and forecast by Iata to lose another $48bn this year. 
Although optimism is tempered by an uneven recovery that has been slow in parts of the world with limited access 
to Covid-19 vaccines and an awareness new coronavirus variants could reverse the outlook, the outbreak of 
positivity is backed by the increase in the number of planes in the sky and loosening restrictions. 
Since May, the number of planes in the air has risen steadily to its highest level globally since the coronavirus crisis 
started, according to data from Citigroup, while easing restrictions and signs governments are moving towards living 
with Covid in key markets are at the heart of newfound confidence. 
The UK has significantly loosened travel restrictions for vaccinated travellers. Even Singapore, a poster child for 
tough restrictions to contain the virus, has said it aims to introduce quarantine-free travel for vaccinated people in 
September.
In Europe, a late summer surge in bookings, prompted by an EU-wide digital travel pass brought in at the start of 
July, has boosted optimism further, confirming airline executives’ hopes that the desire to travel has been 
undimmed by the pandemic.
“What we are seeing empirically is there is nothing wrong with the consumer,” said Jozsef Varadi, chief executive of 
Hungary-based Wizz Air. “We think the desire to travel is totally intact.” 
The no-frills, low-cost airline has forecast a complete return to pre-pandemic 2019 levels of flying in August, putting 
it at the forefront of a recovery led by short-haul carriers that is taking hold across Europe this summer. 
But even some legacy airlines, hampered by the slow return of long-haul and business trips, are showing signs of 
optimism. Air France-KLM, for example, said it was confident it would return to profit this quarter.
In the US, the speed of the recovery has taken the industry by surprise, with demand for domestic flying snapping 
back so quickly that some flight crews have been left sleeping by baggage reclaims as airlines have failed to find 
enough hotels, according to unions. 
There have also been fuel supply shortages at some airports, while American Airlines had to cancel hundreds of 
flights after not having enough pilots to keep up with demand for flights this summer. 
They are problems the industry will happily face as three out of the “Big Four” US carriers reported a profit in the 
second quarter, with the outlier, United Airlines, predicting it would be back in profit too by the second half. 
Another big plus is an early sign of revival in business travel, one of the last areas to recover, and Boeing on 
Wednesday said it would cut 10,000 fewer jobs than it forecast in October as the market rebounds.
Even the rapid spread of the Delta coronavirus variant in a largely vaccinated population, and some companies 
closing their offices again, has not dimmed the enthusiasm. 
Still, with US borders closed to most people from the UK and Europe, the industry is waiting for the full reopening of 
transatlantic routes — among the busiest and most lucrative in the world. These are worth about £9bn a year in 
revenue to US and UK carriers but have been stagnating at about 25 per cent of normal flight volumes for more 
than a year. 
“We are very close to losing another peak summer season on the important transatlantic market,” said Iata’s Walsh.
Clouds lift as confidence returns to battered airline industry
The recovery is also strongly biased towards the well-vaccinated western world, with flight volumes still more than 
40 per cent lower than normal in Africa, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific. Many countries without the luxury of high 
vaccination rates to counter the Delta variant are now in the grip of their worst outbreaks of the pandemic so far. 
In Asia, the huge Chinese domestic market, which has more or less fully recovered, is skewing the region’s overall 
numbers, which are worse than headline figures suggest.
“The already dire situation has recently been compounded by new Covid-19 infections across the region due to the 
Delta variant, with ongoing border restrictions holding back any meaningful restart,” said Subhas Menon, the 
director-general of the Association of Asia Pacific Airlines. 
Hopes for recovery will be “dim” until governments accelerate the vaccine rollout, he added. 
Even while Singapore begins to look at gradually opening up, New Zealand has shut the “trans-Tasman travel 
bubble” with Australia. Prompted by an outbreak in Australia, it underlines an industry at the mercy of changing 
government policy. 
At the same time, Australia’s Qantas still expects a more than $1.5bn loss in the 2021 financial year, despite 
government support and a strong network of domestic routes. 
In particular, lingering concerns over new variants means executives everywhere are conscious optimism could 
suddenly evaporate. 
“Clearly we are on an upward trend, but I am not sure it is going to be a straight line like we all wish for,” said Wizz’s 
Varadi. 
But after 18 months of pain, many of the world’s airlines think the worst is over. “We are reaching the light at the 
end of the tunnel,” said Luis Gallego, chief executive of IAG.
Load-Date: August 3, 2021
End of Document
IAG: cautious summer schedule signals late take-off for recovery
IAG: cautious summer schedule signals late take-off for recovery
 
FT.com
July 30, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 318 words
Body
Shareholders on board International Airlines Group put up with a lot of turbulence. Shares of the British airways 
owner rose steeply on Wednesday after changes to UK travel restrictions fuelled a surge in US bookings. That 
reversed on Friday, following a cautious  interim results statement. 
IAG will fly, at most, 45 per cent of its regular schedule this summer. Though Iberia and Vueling are benefiting from 
pent-up demand, BA — normally the biggest profit generator in the group — is still hampered by tough UK travel 
restrictions. By contrast, Air France-KLM adopted a sunnier tone, laying out plans to fly up to 70 per cent of normal 
capacity this summer.
IAG shares have lost a lot of height since the start of 2020 — down 60 per cent, compared with a 56 per cent fall for 
Air France-KLM and a 10 per cent rise for Ryanair. Shares trade on a 2023 EV/ebitda ratio of 3.9. That is almost a 
tenth lower than Air France-KLM, based on UBS figures.
The airline has some strengths, though. Since the financial crisis, it has steered away from business travel, 
increasing exposure to the premium leisure market. Corporate sales account for just 13 per cent of group revenues, 
about a third of the global average. Disruption caused by carbon emission concerns and changing work practices 
affect it less than many peers.
Having shored up its capital base, IAG also has one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry. Net debt-to-
ebitda is expected to peak at 3.3 times in 2022 before falling to 1.9 times in 2023, says Citigroup’s Sathish 
Sivakumar. It should also be a beneficiary of Norwegian, Thomas Cook and Air New Zealand opting out of UK-US 
routes, which together accounted for 11 per cent of seats.
IAG: cautious summer schedule signals late take-off for recovery
Recovery will be a long haul. Passenger demand is not expected to reach pre-pandemic levels until at least 2023. 
But once the Covid-19 fog has cleared, a more encouraging view of IAG’s prospects will emerge.
Load-Date: July 30, 2021
End of Document
British Airways owner IAG outlines plans to increase flights
British Airways owner IAG outlines plans to increase flights
 
FT.com
July 30, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 561 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and George Steer
Body
The owner of British Airways has outlined cautious plans to return more of its planes to the skies after a difficult first 
half of the year in which losses spiralled to €2bn.
International Airlines Group is heavily exposed to UK and transatlantic travel, leaving its recovery lagging behind 
many of its main competitors in Europe. 
IAG plans to fly 45 per cent of its normal flight schedule in the third quarter, up from 20 per cent in the first six 
months of the year. 
Its plans are more cautious than short-haul rivals, such as easyJet and Ryanair, and reflect IAG’s reliance on parts 
of the industry that are taking longest to recover, such as the corporate and the long-haul market. 
While IAG’s two Spanish airlines will fly about 70 per cent of their normal capacity, BA and Aer Lingus will operate 
just over 30 per cent, underlining how the market in Europe is recovering more quickly than in Britain.
IAG’s plans also contrast with fellow flag carrier Air France-KLM, which also reported results on Friday and said it 
planned to fly up to 70 per cent of normal capacity this summer.
Air France-KLM expects to return to profit in the next three months, and welcomed a recovery in passenger demand 
as the EU eased travel restrictions more quickly than the UK. 
IAG shares fell more than 6 per cent on Friday, outstripping losses elsewhere in the European airline industry.
British Airways owner IAG outlines plans to increase flights
Sean Doyle, BA’s chief executive, said BA’s recovery was running two months behind its European competitors. 
“There is demand out there,” he said. 
The airline was pivoting from corporate travel to try to attract high-paying leisure customers and had fewer premium 
seats following the retirement of old planes including its 747s, said Doyle. 
“We are adjusting our business model to anticipate what will be a lagging recovery in business,” he added. 
Through BA, IAG is normally the dominant player across the highly lucrative north Atlantic, and the company is 
desperate for travel between the UK and US to resume fully. 
Luis Gallego, IAG’s chief executive, welcomed the UK’s decision to exempt fully vaccinated passengers from the 
US and EU from quarantine.
“We see this as an important first step in fully reopening the transatlantic travel corridor,” he said. “We know that 
recovery will be uneven, but we’re ready to take advantage of a surge in air travel demand in line with increasing 
vaccination rates.”
IAG reported an operating loss of €967m in the second quarter, bringing its losses for the first six months of the 
year to just over €2bn. 
The first-half loss was a considerable improvement on the nearly €4bn lost in the first six months of 2020, but total 
revenue fell 60 per cent year on year to €2.2bn.
The company is burning through €190m in cash a week, a figure that does not take incoming revenue into account. 
It is insulated by more than €10bn in liquidity but, like many airlines, has a growing debt burden, with net debt of 
€12.1bn at the end of June.
Air France-KLM reported losses before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of €248m, a €532m 
improvement on the same period last year when the pandemic grounded thousands of planes. Revenues rose 130 
per cent to €2.8bn.
“Thanks to the easing of travel restrictions in several key regions, the second quarter of 2021 saw the first signs of 
the long-awaited recovery,” said Air France-KLM chief executive Benjamin Smith.
Load-Date: August 3, 2021
End of Document
British Airways owner IAG sets out plan to increase flights
British Airways owner IAG sets out plan to increase flights
 
FT.com
July 30, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 954 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
British Airways owner IAG set out a cautious plan to increase flight numbers as travel restrictions are lifted in some 
markets. 
The airline plans to fly 45 per cent of its normal flight schedule in the third quarter to September, up from just 20 per 
cent in the first six months of the year. It warned that the schedulings “remain uncertain and subject to ongoing 
review”.
IAG’s plan is considerably more cautious than short-haul rivals such as easyJet and Ryanair, and reflect IAG’s 
reliance on business travel and long-haul flying, two parts of the industry that are taking longer to recover.
Second-quarter results from IAG showed an operating loss of €967m, bringing its losses for the first six months of 
the year to just over €2bn. The group has been burning through €190m in costs per week, a figure which does not 
take incoming revenue into account. 
I would love to hear your thoughts and feedback about this newsletter. Email me at citybulletin@ft.com
Briefly
NatWest announced plans to return more than £3bn to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks over 
the next three years. The state-backed bank posted a better than expected pre-tax profit of £1.6bn in the three 
months to June, from a £1.3bn loss the year before, as £600m of loan impairment charges were reversed. 
British Airways owner IAG sets out plan to increase flights
Glencore raised targets for its trading division to the top end of previous guidance on improved market conditions. 
The commodities dealer said to expect full-year marketing earnings to be at the top end of its annual range between 
$2.2bn and $3.2bn. A half-year production report from Glencore showed improved copper and cobalt output while 
lead, coal and nickel all fell.
Pearson, the textbook publisher, swung into profit at the half-year stage and said it remains on track to meet 
current market expectations. Adjusted operating profit for the first six months was £217m, versus a £23m loss a 
year ago, as underlying revenue rose 17 per cent to £1.6bn.
Rightmove, the classifieds site for estate agents, said it remained confident in delivering its expectations after 
posting an interim operating profit of £114.9m, up from £61.7m a year ago,
Software maker Aveva said in a brief trading update that it has had a good start to its 2022 financial year, achieving 
approximately 11 per cent revenue growth in the first quarter to June.
Testing and certification company Intertek posted an interim operating profit up 19.9 per cent to £201.7m. For the 
remainder of the year Intertek said its products division, which represents circa 85 per cent of group earnings, 
should deliver robust like-for-like revenue growth at constant currency.
Engineer IMI said that based on strong first-half trading and current market conditions it expect 2021 full year 
adjusted EPS to be in the range of 85p to 90p. Its previous EPS target set in April was 81p to 87p. IMI said interim 
operating profit rose 24 per cent to £142m.
Cineworld revealed its lenders have agreed to provide another $200m of loans maturing 2024 as well as amending 
some existing covenants. Since cinemas started reopening in April trading has continued to improve, Cineworld 
added.
ConvaTec nudged higher its 2021 revenue guidance but trimmed the top end of its margin target. The medical 
products maker reported a first-half operating profit of $136m, up 19.9 per cent. 
Babcock posted an operating loss of £1.6bn for the year ended March after booking £2bn of impairment charges 
related to a review of contracts. The defence services group said it had a turnround plan in place that did not 
require new equity but cautioned that the impact of Covid on current year performance remained uncertain. 
Essentra, the maker of filters and foam plastic products, said it remained on track to meet full-year expectations 
after posting a £35.7m half-year adjusted operating profit, up 34 per cent. 
Beyond the Square Mile
Robinhood saw lacklustre investor demand on its  trading debut. Shares in the retail brokerage opened at $38 
apiece, the bottom of a target range marketed to buyers in its initial public offering. By the end of the New York 
session they closed down 8.4 per cent at $34.82, having earlier slumped as much as 12 per cent.
Amazon’s revenue rose in the second quarter but  fell short of Wall Street’s lofty expectations, even though the 
company increased its overall profits by 50 per cent compared with the same period last year.
Nikola founder Trevor Milton has been charged by US federal prosecutors with  misleading investors about the 
electric truck start-up’s products and technology. Milton, who stepped down as chair of Nikola last year, entered a 
plea of not guilty and was released on $100m bail.
UniCredit has entered  exclusive talks to acquire parts of Monte dei Paschi di Siena, the world’s oldest bank that 
was bailed out by the Italian government in 2016. UniCredit reported results today that  comfortably beat analysts’ 
expectations.
Natural gas prices in Europe and the UK have  soared to some of the highest levels on record, threatening to raise 
costs for households and businesses as global supplies of the critical fossil fuel remain tight.
British Airways owner IAG sets out plan to increase flights
Essential comment before you go
Madison Darbyshire
Robinhood eschewed what corporate governance experts believe is  the gold standard for shareholder structures of 
one share, one vote. It’s not uncommon for tech companies to have a dual-class voting structure, but it’s odd to 
have one if a company was claiming to democratise investing.
Helen Thomas
The  successful float of private equity group Bridgepoint has been overshadowed by a governance bust-up that 
played into the worst of the industry’s stereotypes: sorry but the rules don’t apply to us. Payments to board directors 
require better explanation from all parties.
Load-Date: July 30, 2021
End of Document
Staycation boom benefits UK more than other countries
Staycation boom benefits UK more than other countries
 
FT.com
July 28, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 524 words
Byline: Delphine Strauss in London
Body
The switch to “staycations” will have boosted Britain’s tourism sector more than that of other countries, according to 
new analysis published as the industry welcomed a government decision to relax restrictions on inbound travel.
From Monday, fully vaccinated travellers from the US and EU will be able to enter England without having to 
quarantine — giving airlines, hotels and tour operators hopes of salvaging at least part of a second dismal summer 
season.
 The announcement of the change boosted shares in the airlines  easyJet and  Ryanair and the travel caterer SSP, 
while Claire Walker, co-executive director at the British Chambers of Commerce, said it would be welcome news 
“for the hundreds of thousands of people directly employed in the travel industry and the many more that are part of 
supply chains”.
From airlines to travel agencies, visitor accommodation to car rental, businesses associated with tourism have been 
among the hardest hit by the pandemic, with the number of hours worked falling far more than in the overall 
economy, and many jobs still supported by wage subsidies in May.
But the Resolution Foundation, a think-tank, said in a report published on Thursday that “while it may not feel like it 
to those struggling to fill bars and beds”, conditions were not as bad as they might be because the UK had been far 
better placed to benefit from the pandemic-related  swing towards domestic tourism.
Staycation boom benefits UK more than other countries
In a “normal” year, the UK has a “tourism trade deficit” of some £30.5bn, the Resolution Foundation said — with 
British people spending far more on overseas holidays than overseas tourists spend in the UK, in contrast with the 
huge tourism surpluses of countries such as Spain and Greece.
This means that if all tourists across the world replaced their foreign holiday with a trip in their own country, annual 
spending on tourism in the UK would rise by a sixth — implying the creation of an extra 300,000 jobs.
In reality, however, the new popularity of “staycations” — with web searches for camping trips outstripping searches 
for cheap flights — is not enough to compensate for the larger numbers who have simply chosen to stay at home.
The UK’s labour force survey suggests that employees failed to take almost a fifth of their usual leave allowance 
last year, the Resolution Foundation said — possibly because they were hoarding it until better travel options 
opened up.
Overall tourism activity has fallen sharply across the EU, with Eurostat figures for the last summer season showing 
nights spent in tourist accommodation by visitors from another country were less than half their 2019 level, while 
bookings from domestic visitors were down 12 per cent.
In the UK, the benefits are unevenly felt, with coastal and rural areas such as Devon, Cornwall and Cumbria 
inundated, while hotels in London and cities popular with overseas visitors stood empty.
Nye Cominetti, senior economist at the Resolution Foundation, said staycations would provide “some much-needed 
relief”, but there were still “huge challenges” for the industry and the two million workers employed in it as the 
summer ended and the furlough scheme wound down.
Load-Date: July 29, 2021
End of Document
Wizz Air shareholders back £100m pay plan for CEO Varadi
Wizz Air shareholders back £100m pay plan for CEO Varadi
 
FT.com
July 27, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 443 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Attracta Mooney
Body
Wizz Air’s chief executive Jozsef Varadi has won shareholder approval for a potential £100m payout in a 
controversial vote that was open only to a small proportion of investors because of Brexit.
Just under two-thirds of the votes at Wizz’s annual general meeting were cast in favour of the  bonus scheme, with 
about a third voting against. But the votes represented just 16 per cent of the company’s issued share capital, far 
below the average for a UK-listed company and much lower than the previous turnouts at the company. 
In late December Wizz significantly  watered down the voting rights of investors from outside the European 
Economic Area, in order to comply with EU rules around airline ownership following Brexit. Irish carrier Ryanair took 
similar action. 
EU regulations demand that airlines with EU operating licences are majority owned and controlled by nationals of 
the bloc, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein.
“The Brexit  component has substantially reduced the number of shareholders that can vote,” said Mark Simpson, 
an aviation analyst at Goodbody.
Wizz’s board consulted investors before drawing up the pay scheme, and received the most pushback from UK-
based institutions, according to one person familiar with the matter.
Wizz said its board had “engaged extensively with shareholders to discuss our approach to remuneration and to 
seek feedback on our proposals.
Wizz Air shareholders back £100m pay plan for CEO Varadi
“The board understands the issues raised by certain shareholders but is wholly satisfied that the adoption of the 
[bonus scheme and remuneration policy] are in the best interests of the company, its shareholders and other 
stakeholders,” it added.
Shareholders shot down a short-term remuneration plan at last year’s AGM, when investors owning about 80 per 
cent of the issued share capital voted. According to Equiniti, about 75 per cent of FTSE 100 share capital is voted 
on average, falling to 54 per cent for smaller UK-listed companies. 
The board redesigned the remuneration plan to beef up the share price target after early discussions with 
shareholders and were always confident it would pass.
Shareholder advisory groups Glass Lewis and ISS had  urged investors to reject the pay plan, while the UK 
Investment Association’s influential voting advisory service Ivis issued its highest level of warning in the run-up to 
the AGM.
Under the newly approved pay plan, Varadi will be granted up to £100m in shares if London-listed Wizz’s shares 
climb from their current £47 to £120 over the next five years.
The airline, which is based in Hungary, has laid out ambitions to rapidly grow its footprint across Europe as the 
aviation industry emerges from the pandemic. 
Load-Date: August 4, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair reports surge in late summer bookings on more signs of recovery
Ryanair reports surge in late summer bookings on more signs of recovery
 
FT.com
July 26, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 589 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Signs of a long-awaited recovery in European aviation are growing after Ryanair reported a “surge” in late summer 
bookings and raised its forecast for passenger numbers over the next year.
The low-cost carrier said the rebound was down to vaccinations, the introduction of an EU-wide digital travel pass at 
the start of this month and the rollback of isolation rules for vaccinated travellers in the UK.
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, predicted a recovery in air travel over the winter and into next summer. 
“We have seen a strong rebound in pent-up travel demand,” he said.
Shares rose 4 per cent to €16.36 by late morning on Monday and are trading above levels just before the outbreak 
of coronavirus.
The carrier’s upbeat outlook mirrors rival easyJet, which last week said it would increase the number of flights it 
operates over the late summer in response to strong bookings, particularly from continental Europe.
Heathrow airport also on Monday said the UK was “emerging from the worst effects” of the pandemic but said the 
country was lagging behind a quicker recovery in continental Europe.
Ryanair reports surge in late summer bookings on more signs of recovery
The industry has been desperate for any signs of a sustained rebound in demand for flying following 15 months of 
mounting losses. 
Ryanair produced a net loss of €273m in the three months to the end of June, with Easter largely a write-off. This 
compared with a net loss of €185m in the same quarter last year. 
The airline carried 8.1m passengers in the quarter, but outlined how flying has since rapidly rebounded, with 9m 
passengers forecast for July and 10m for August. Ryanair was taking 2m bookings per week in June, four times 
more than in March.
With passengers booking late and fares below pre-Covid levels, Ryanair warned that it was still difficult to provide 
meaningful earnings guidance, but expects to post “somewhere between” a small loss and break-even this financial 
year, which runs until the end of March. “The likely outcome of [the financial year] . . . has improved,” O’Leary said.
The airline expects to carry between 90m and 100m passengers in the year, a slight increase from its previous 
guidance, which was at the lower end of a range between 80m and 120m. Ryanair carried 149m passengers a year 
pre-Covid, and hopes to reach 200m per year in four years' time.
That bullish forecast underlines how O’Leary hopes to emerge from the Covid crisis strengthened as weaker rivals 
retrench and growth opportunities open up across Europe. 
The airline has a strong balance sheet and had €4.6bn in cash at the end of June, up from €3.2bn three months 
earlier. Net debt fell during the quarter, from €2.3bn to €1.7bn.
But the rise of Wizz Air has offered Ryanair competition in the ultra-low cost end of the industry, with the London-
listed and Hungarian-based airline also outlining plans for a rapid expansion as Covid-19 fades. 
Wizz’s shareholders will on Tuesday vote on a pay package that will reward chief executive Jozsef Varadi with a 
bonus of up to £100m if he can rapidly expand the airline following the pandemic.
Still, losses are piling up across the aviation industry.
Heathrow posted an adjusted loss of £787m in the first six months of the year and said fewer than 4m passengers 
had passed through the airport this year, a number that would have taken just 18 days to reach in 2021.
The airport, which has £4.8bn in liquidity, forecasts passenger numbers to recover to 21m for 2021 as more people 
fly, but has asked its creditors to extend a waiver on a covenant threatened by the business’s low cash flow.
Load-Date: July 26, 2021
End of Document
Let competitive forces fly in the airline recovery
Let competitive forces fly in the airline recovery
 
FT.com
July 26, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 691 words
Byline: Helen Thomas
Body
Railing against the anti-competitive tendencies of the aviation industry is part of the regular schtick if you’re a low-
cost airline. 
The pandemic has provided a wealth of new material. Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary has complained loudly about 
competing against the “crack cocaine, state-aid junkies” created by a  wave of European government bailouts, 
following up with  more than 20 court complaints.
His latest source of ire involves airport slots, the seemingly prosaic business of getting permission to use airport 
infrastructure at a certain time and date, and whether hoarding them will impede recovery. He has a point.
One of the peculiarities of this almighty crisis is that, even in the UK where aviation has had precious little in the 
way of sector-specific support, elements of the industry that seemed ripe for disruption have been  preserved in 
aspic instead. 
“Use it or lose it” rules, which require airlines to fly 80 per cent of the time to retain precious slots, were waived 
during the pandemic as part of efforts to conserve cash and stop the flying of empty aircraft.
As the recovery picks up, with  Ryanair increasing its forecast for passenger numbers this year as travel restrictions 
ease, that becomes impossible to justify. 
Let competitive forces fly in the airline recovery
The UK, where travel restrictions remain strict but also lamentably unpredictable, has proposed asking airlines to fly 
50 per cent of journeys over the winter to preserve their slots. This comes with carve-outs for countries on the 
government’s red list of travel restrictions, and the ability to hand back a full batch of slots without penalty.
The EU, where the digital Covid-19 pass has  prompted a recovery in flying, has gone further: it also wants airlines 
to fly half their slots but without any intra-EU suspensions on the rules and without an option to surrender slots for 
the season.
The fact that this has provoked an unhappy response from parties on all sides tells you it’s probably a reasonable 
compromise, as a first step. 
The angst breaks down along predictable lines. Legacy airlines, like British Airways or European flag carriers, want 
to hold on to slots as long as possible, particularly given the slow expected recovery in their most valuable long-haul 
routes and business fares. 
Low-cost airlines like Ryanair and Wizz Air want to increase their ability to get hold of slots to expand. Airports like 
Heathrow, which on Monday said it expects fewer passengers in 2021 than last year,  simply want footfall, wherever 
it comes from.
In the UK, airlines can buy slots from each other on a short-term basis, though the prospect of investing in a new 
route only to lose it when the market recovers (as well as propping up a rival) doesn’t necessarily appeal.
One mystery is how the byzantine slot system has survived this long. The Competition and Markets Authority in 
2018 suggested  moving to a market-based system arguing that the current rules were inefficient. The 
government’s  aviation strategy noted the system was not designed to “stimulate a competitive market 
environment”, and could result in poor outcomes for consumers.
There may be an opportunity to rethink the UK system, which after Brexit now falls to the Department for Transport. 
This amounts to heresy for the airlines, which treats slots as sacred assets, including using  them as collateral 
against borrowing. But others in the sector concede that there could be ways of reforming the system to increase 
competition, and align with policy objectives around connectivity or indeed decarbonisation.
In the meantime, there may need to be a mechanism to shake loose slots from weakened or nationalised 
incumbents. Ryanair said on Monday that bailed-out airlines like Portugal’s TAP and long-suffering Alitalia had cut 
their short-haul fleets by 20-30 per cent as part of restructurings and that other operators were “sitting on slots that 
they’re not using”. 
That could mean a shortage in capacity next year and the year after, given that it takes over a year for slots that 
aren’t used to be reallocated to another airline. 
Airlines with slots they can’t use shouldn’t be allowed to hold and hope for too long.
 @helentbiz
Load-Date: July 26, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair reports loss but nudges up passenger number forecasts
Ryanair reports loss but nudges up passenger number forecasts
 
FT.com
July 26, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 671 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
City Bulletin has a new email address and we’d love to hear your comments and feedback about this newsletter. 
Email us at .
Ryanair nudged its traffic target higher on strong summer bookings but cautioned that, with fares under pressure 
and tourists leaving bookings to the last minute, visibility for the rest of the year was “close to zero”.
For the quarter ended June, Ryanair posted an after-tax loss of €272.6m, which was slightly better than the €283m 
consensus forecast. Liquidity improved to €4.1bn from €3.2bn at the end of March after the airline raised €1.2bn 
through a bond issue.
The airline said it expected to fly between 90m and 100m passengers in its financial year to March, up from earlier 
guidance of 80m to 100m. Management expects passenger numbers to improve rapidly from 5m in June to 9m in 
July and 10m in August.
Ryanair reiterated to expect either break-even or small loss in the current year.
Briefly
Heathrow posted a half year pre-tax loss of £868m, taking its cumulative losses from Covid-19 to £2.9bn. The 
operator of London’s main hub airport said passenger demand was increasing from historic lows, but testing 
requirements and travel restrictions “are holding back the UK’s economic recovery”. The UK is falling further behind 
Ryanair reports loss but nudges up passenger number forecasts
European competitors on both cargo volumes and tourist income, with state support necessary for as long as the 
travel industry faces restrictions, it said
Meat producer Cranswick said it was on track to meet full-year targets after sales last quarter rose 9.6 per cent. It 
cited strong retail demand and increased sales from its poultry farm, along with gradual but sustained recovery of 
catering channels. UK pig prices increased by 12 per cent during the period, Cranswick added.
Anglo American’s Amplats subsidiary posted a more than fivefold improvement in half-year headline earnings on 
higher platinum prices and increased output. The South African platinum metals miner’s ebitda rose 385 per cent to 
a record 63.3bn rand.
Martin Sorrell’s S4 Capital announced an expansion of its data and digital media practice in the Asia Pacific region 
with the merger of its MightyHive business with Destined, “a leader in digital transformation strategy”. No terms 
were provided.
Bridgepoint, the recently floated private equity group, is holding preliminary talks with investment banks about an 
auction of Burger King’s UK operations,  Sky News reported.
The chief executive of hedge fund manager Man Group says cryptocurrencies have “  no inherent worth” but are 
creating trading opportunities for his company because of their wild price swings.
Job moves
Dignity, the funeral director, named as its new non-executive chair John Castagno, which follows the  ousting of 
Clive Whiley in 2021 by Phoenix Asset Management Partners. 
Beyond the Square Mile
Downing Street is exploring ways  to remove China General Nuclear, China’s state-owned nuclear energy 
company, from all future UK power projects including the new £20bn Sizewell nuclear power station in Suffolk, 
people close to the discussions told the FT.
Credit Suisse has settled one of the  most explosive feuds in its history, reaching an out-of-court agreement with 
its former star wealth manager Iqbal Khan as it prepares for its first quarterly results under chair António Horta-
Osório on Thursday.
US senators raced  to reach a final deal on the text of a $1tn bipartisan infrastructure package on Sunday, with 
funding for mass transit emerging as a sticking point and tensions rising over Joe Biden’s sweeping economic 
agenda.
Essential comment before you go
Martin Wolf
Collective  defined contribution plans are able to address some of the problems associated with the UK’s relatively 
ungenerous pension system. But the government would need to be active in creating trustworthy institutional 
structures.
Rana Foroohar
What social networks have done to society, trading apps have begun  doing to markets. The Securities and 
Exchange Commission should force platforms like Robinhood to spell out what “free” trading really means.
Load-Date: July 26, 2021
End of Document
EasyJet warns UK is being left behind because of Covid travel curbs
EasyJet warns UK is being left behind because of Covid travel curbs
 
FT.com
July 20, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 630 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
EasyJet has warned UK customers are being left behind because of travel restrictions as it increased the number of 
flights it operates over the late summer in response to a surge in bookings from continental Europe. 
The low-cost carrier on Tuesday said it expected to operate 60 per cent of its 2019 schedule between July and 
September, up from just 17 per cent in the previous quarter.
EasyJet chief executive Johan Lundgren told the Financial Times: “You can definitely see Europe is leading the way 
out of this, and the UK unfortunately is falling behind.” 
While easyJet’s business is normally split evenly between the UK and Europe, at present two-thirds of its bookings 
come from  continental Europe.
From the start of this month, passengers from the EU can use a digital Covid-19 pass to cross borders, while the 
UK government has complex and sometimes rapidly changing rules on foreign travel.
Lundgren questioned UK travel restrictions, which are based on a traffic-light system that classifies countries by 
Covid-19 risk. 
“You have to suspect there is a different approach and different risk willingness when it comes to travel compared 
to reopening the domestic economy,” Lundgren said. 
EasyJet warns UK is being left behind because of Covid travel curbs
“You can go into a nightclub with no restrictions whatsoever, but you can’t travel to a low-risk destination to go to 
the beach without having to take expensive testing, it just doesn’t make any sense.” 
Lundgren’s criticism came as the industry lost a High Court ruling against the UK government in a judicial review. 
The industry argued ministers had breached their duties of transparency in making public the criteria that 
determined where countries were placed on travel lists under the traffic light system.
However, the easyJet boss still expects a resurgence in travel from Britain as soon as the rules ease, and 
welcomed the government’s decision to drop quarantine for fully vaccinated passengers returning from countries on 
the “amber” travel list. 
Shares rose 1 per cent to 777.20p by the close of trade on Tuesday, but have fallen about a fifth over the past 
month as rising case numbers across the UK and Europe prompt concerns over travel for the rest of this year.
EasyJet is the first big European airline to report earnings this summer, and its plan to increase flights is particularly 
encouraging given that it has been more cautious in restoring capacity than some of its rivals including Ryanair and 
Wizz Air, analysts at Bernstein said. 
“This should be taken as highly encouraging for the sector, and a key sign that the travel recovery is upon us,” 
Bernstein said. 
Chris Tarry, a London-based aviation consultant, said the cautious approach meant easyJet had been late in 
moving capacity to continental Europe to take advantage of changing passenger demand. 
EasyJet posted a pre-tax loss of £318m during the three months to the end of June, only marginally less than the 
£349m it lost a year earlier when there was virtually no flying due to coronavirus curbs. 
The airline has now passed more than £1bn in losses for the first three quarters of its current financial year.
However, it has managed to cut its cash burn during its third quarter to £55m, and has access to £2.9bn of liquidity, 
having raised more than £5.5bn since the start of the crisis. 
The company will “continue to review its liquidity position on a regular basis”, but did not outline any 
immediate plans to raise more cash.
A growing debt burden is expected to hang over the airline sector for years, and easyJet had about £2bn in net debt 
by the end of June, roughly flat on the previous quarter.
The company will repay a £300m Bank of England emergency Covid-19 loan in November, but will then have no 
other debt maturities outstanding until the 2023 financial year.
Additional reporting by Jane Croft
Load-Date: July 20, 2021
End of Document
The case for taxing European flights
The case for taxing European flights
 
FT.com
July 16, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 600 words
Byline: The editorial board
Body
If you fancied flying from London to Tuscany this weekend, a one-way ticket to Pisa cost  just £4.99 on Ryanair, 
before any “optional” extras, and a still  reasonable £70.99 on easyJet. This might not last. Of all the measures set 
out in this week’s  sweeping EU climate action blueprint, the ones ordinary Europeans may notice first are  those 
aimed at the bloc’s airlines.
Aviation has only accounted for about  4 per cent of EU carbon emissions in recent years and obviously fell during 
the pandemic, but past trends suggest curbs will be needed to make sure flying does not endanger the bloc’s goal 
of cutting emissions to net zero by 2050. Brussels aims to tax conventional kerosene jet fuel for intra-European 
flights and require greener fuel to be gradually blended in with kerosene. Airlines would also have to eventually pay 
for their planes’ pollution, as free allowances under the EU’s emissions trading system are phased out.
The aviation industry’s  response to these plans has been strident. Trade bodies say the measures would 
eventually raise ticket prices and could be counterproductive if aircraft fly longer routes to skirt new levies. The 
International Air Transport Association says taxes “siphon money from the industry” that could support investments 
in greener aircraft and technologies.
The association has a point. Governments should have done more earlier to promote sustainable aviation fuels, the 
main solution to the industry’s emissions in the absence of planes powered by electricity or other green alternatives. 
Likewise, more could have been done to help cleaner train journeys compete against dirtier short-haul flights.
The case for taxing European flights
Yet the airlines’ arguments would have more force if the industry had shown a greater willingness to effectively 
tackle its emissions in the past. Instead, some of its members repeatedly resisted earlier EU efforts to rein in 
pollution. Since then, public demands for action have grown, along with a new campaign of “flight-shaming” 
frequent flyers.
Even so, policymakers must ensure that the burden of climate measures does not fall too heavily on those  least 
able to carry it and, perhaps, most in need of a holiday. The EU’s climate plans include a €72bn “  social climate 
fund” to ease the impact on poorer countries. Others have come up with innovative ideas to specifically spur fair 
green aviation policies. 
Existing air passenger duties would be scrapped and replaced by a frequent flyer levy on the 15 per cent of people 
who take 70 per cent of flights under  one proposal this month from a UK think-tank. The plan would raise £5bn a 
year, says the New Economics Foundation, while limiting emissions and offering poorer people a better chance of 
travelling after the pandemic.  
There will be much haggling to come over the final shape of the policies in the European Commission’s “Fit for 55” 
climate blueprint, which is named for the bloc’s aim to slash its greenhouse gas emissions by 55 per cent from 1990 
levels by 2030.
This is a profoundly ambitious target. It took nearly 30 years for the emissions of the EU’s 27 current members to 
fall  24 per cent from what they were in 1990. Brussels now aims to more than double the size of that reduction in 
just nine years.
The scale of the climate crisis demands such action. This week’s  deadly floods in western Europe, and the searing 
heatwaves in North America before that, underline the need for policies that should have been enacted decades 
ago. All industries must play their part in the far-reaching changes needed to bring emissions down to safer levels. 
That includes airlines too.
Load-Date: July 16, 2021
End of Document
How Wizz Air’s bumper pay package is a sign of the times
How Wizz Air’s bumper pay package is a sign of the times
 
FT.com
July 15, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 699 words
Byline: Helen Thomas
Body
Is the UK’s latest pay bust-up ready for take off?
Proxy adviser ISS this week joined Glass Lewis in recommending shareholders reject a  new play plan for Wizz 
Air’s Jozsef Varadi that could hand the founder and chief executive up to £100m over eight years.
Both called the potential windfall “excessive”, raising concerns about the plan’s structure and the focus on share 
price performance. 
To earn top whack, Varadi will need to more than double the low-cost airline’s share price over five years, a 
compound annual growth rate of 20 per cent. To get anything at all, the shares must pass a 10 per cent growth rate, 
at which point the payouts start at £20m. 
This has the makings of a classic pay stink: uncomfortably big numbers for a head who is already a 6 per cent 
shareholder, against the  backdrop of a doubling in pay revolts at big UK-listed companies this year. 
The notable absence, so far, of vocal investor dissent may be down to a couple of factors. First, the Hungary-
based, Jersey-registered company has a rather international shareholder register, including a sizeable US following 
where private equity backer Indigo Partner is based. 
Second, the UK institutions that tend to police pay most assiduously do not hold the sway they once did. The rise of 
tracker funds is not the issue so much as Brexit: Wizz Air, like rival Ryanair, has  partially “disenfranchised” UK and 
US investors to meet EU ownership rules for airlines, including for the vote this month. 
How Wizz Air’s bumper pay package is a sign of the times
The £100m  on offer may jar against a low-cost ethos and comparatively low-paid crew. But Varadi’s performance is 
not in doubt: the shares have more than tripled since its 2015 listing. And the airline has a better claim than most to 
be creating a high-risk, high-reward package to retain an entrepreneurial boss who is in demand — not least from 
the improbably high numbers who think a global pandemic is a great time to start an airline.
The plan is also longer-term than your bog-standard package. The targets are stretching, requiring adding about 
£7bn in market value at the top end. Unlike  Cineworld’s controversial bonus scheme, the shares do not start from a 
bombed-out level but close to an all-time high. There are new reward plans for all employees. 
The broader context, too, is the growing angst about the dearth of founder-led, high growth businesses on the 
London market — as well as concerns that the  appeal of private equity ownership for executives (more money, 
fewer annoying questions) is leaching talent from the public markets. The boss of SSP, owner of travel-orientated 
baguette chain Upper Crust, this week turned in his apron after only two years for a job in private equity; the shares 
sank.
Perhaps to soften the impression of unpalatably ruthless capitalist tendencies, Varadi’s package contains ESG 
metrics, worth 10 per cent of the payout, an increasingly popular option that generally deserves more scrutiny. 
The emissions target, in particular, falls squarely into the category of stuff they were going to do anyway. On an 
emissions per revenue passenger kilometre basis, it goes hand in hand with ambitious growth plans that will involve 
flying and emitting more, albeit using a newer, more efficient fleet of aircraft than the competitors it hopes to 
squeeze in the process.
In fact, given that Wizz’s emissions per RPK jumped last year as the pandemic emptied planes, pretty much the 
entirety of the promised 36 per cent reduction over the five years to March 2026 can be accounted for by a post-
pandemic recovery in flying and larger aircraft already on order. If cramming more people on to lower-cost aircraft 
sounds part and parcel of the Wizz strategy, that’s because it is. No wonder the ESG portion of Varadi’s plan only 
pays out if the share price targets are hit.
Does his proposed payout look toppy, given the chances he would abandon a company he calls his “baby”? Yes. 
Would cutting the windfall by 20 per cent or 30 per cent have won over proxy firms? Unlikely. Would shareholders 
contest that he is worth retaining or begrudge him his millions if he actually hits the big target? Probably not. 
Just do not kid yourself that he is saving the planet in the meantime.
 @helentbiz
Load-Date: July 15, 2021
End of Document
ESG investing: funds weigh sovereign debt profits against human rights
ESG investing: funds weigh sovereign debt profits against human rights
 
FT.com
July 13, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 2501 words
Byline: Laurence Fletcher and Tommy Stubbington in London
Body
Late one evening last November Nickolai Prakofyeu answered the phone to some troubling news: he had 24 hours 
to leave  Belarus or face at least 12 years in prison. Prakofyeu’s father had been tipped off by a sympathetic source 
within the Belarusian KGB that the security forces of Alexander Lukashenko’s regime were no longer willing to 
tolerate the family’s pro-democracy activities since last August’s disputed election.
Officials were about to shut down his family’s hotels and restaurant in the south-eastern city of Gomel, which had 
been giving free food to anti-government protesters. After the warning, Prakofyeu and his wife had time to gather 
just a few belongings — along with Jason, their Yorkshire Terrier — before fleeing in the early hours. 
“We packed what we could into our car and drove to Ukraine,” says the 28-year-old, who has since linked up with 
the Belarus opposition  in exile in Poland. From that bolt-hole he now spends his time pressuring western 
companies into ditching their investments in his home country. They include an array of asset managers who have 
funded Lukashenko’s authoritarian regime by buying Belarusian government debt.
Such  divestment campaigns are not new in the world of  emerging markets investing, where European and North 
American fund groups frequently use their clients’ money to bankroll unsavoury regimes. But they have been given 
fresh impetus by the phenomenon of  ESG investing sweeping  the asset management industry — which evaluates 
investments on environmental, social and governance criteria. And by the public attention  Belarus has attracted.
ESG investing: funds weigh sovereign debt profits against human rights
Prakofyeu has tried to hold the industry to its promises, writing to asset managers such as BlackRock and UBS to 
ask if owning Belarus’ bonds is consistent with their policies, “given that the proceeds support the terroristic regime 
which is involved in gross human rights violations”. UBS says it only holds small positions of these bonds.
“All of these companies say ‘we’re all about ESG and sustainable practices’,” Prakofyeu says. “But when it comes 
to their investments, it seems like no one really cares.”
Such campaigns have enjoyed isolated success. Even before Belarus’ forced  grounding of a Ryanair flight in May 
placed the regime back in the spotlight and sparked a  tightening of US and EU sanctions, a group of Danish asset 
managers sold all their Belarus government debt. Germany’s Union Investment has also sold out, while investors 
such as BlueBay Asset Management avoided last year’s bond sale over human rights concerns. EU sanctions, 
imposed in June, prevent European investors from buying or trading any new Belarusian bonds that the regime tries 
to sell, but do not affect holdings of existing bonds.
Many emerging market investors point to a dilemma for the industry: if they steer clear of Belarusian bonds, what 
about other countries with dubious human rights records? Many worry privately it would be hard to make money if 
the likes of Russia, Saudi Arabia or China were off-limits.
“All of the countries in the emerging markets index will have some issue of some kind — there’s no perfect way to 
do it,” says Richard House, chief investment officer for emerging market debt at Allianz Global Investors. “It’s a bit 
of a pandora’s box.”
Profit vs rights
The dilemma over human rights exposes an uncomfortable tension at the heart of  the ESG boom. Is all the effort 
spent measuring and evaluating “ESG factors” simply a way to improve returns by avoiding some hitherto under-
appreciated risks? Or is investing more “sustainably” an end in itself? 
Asset managers love to pretend both these goals are in perfect harmony. Logically, that won’t always be the case. 
And up to now a poor human rights record has been little barrier to borrowing money from western investors.
Saudi Arabia has successfully sold $32bn of international bonds since the start of 2019, according to data from 
Bond Radar, despite the worldwide condemnation of the 2018 murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi linked to 
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and Riyadh’s military campaign against Houthi rebels in neighbouring 
Yemen. Over the same period Russia, under international pressure over events such as its 2014 annexation of 
Crimea and its role in Syria’s civil war, has raised more than $10bn on international bond markets.
Egypt is a very popular holding among emerging market bond managers, even though president  Abdel Fattah al-
Sisi’s government holds tens of thousands of government critics in prison on politically-motivated charges, 
according to Human Rights Watch. 
Prominent holders of its bonds include BlackRock, AllianceBernstein and Crédit Agricole. ESG and human rights 
are important issues for all three, according to their websites. BlackRock and Crédit Agricole declined to comment. 
AllianceBernstein said no country it does business in “demonstrates policies, strategies and actions that are 100 per 
cent ideal or responsible”.
Foreign investors have also grown active in China’s massive bond market, despite the imposition of a  security law 
in Hong Kong and its treatment of the Muslim Uyghur population in Xinjiang province, which the  US state 
department has described as “genocide and crimes against humanity”. 
Criticised by human rights activists, many fund managers insist that deciding what to do about bonds issued by 
unsavoury regimes is not straightforward. Their mandate is to make money. In a performance-based industry, 
excluding countries over human rights concerns could deny them access to profitable trades. 
ESG investing: funds weigh sovereign debt profits against human rights
“We have a core responsibility to generate a return for investors, and a lot of the challenging ESG stories [countries 
ranking poorly on environmental or social measures] have the [highest] yields, which obviously creates a bias to 
invest,” says Timothy Ash, senior emerging market sovereign strategist at BlueBay.
And while a country may score badly in one area, it could fare better elsewhere. Ash highlights Saudi Arabia: while 
Prince Mohammed approved a  “capture or kill” operation on Khashoggi, according to US intelligence, he has also 
led an  ambitious reform programme giving women greater freedom. 
Some feel it is unfair that the growing focus on human rights has increased the pressure on them to make ethical 
decisions about acceptable and unacceptable regimes.
“We’re not here to measure the extent of human rights violations,” says the head of emerging market debt at a big 
global asset manager that holds Belarusian government bonds. “We’re not going to go to Saudi Arabia and ask 
them to become a democracy.” 
Nor would their investors wish them to, he argues: the firm manages money for western pensioners, Middle Eastern 
sovereign wealth funds and wealthy Chinese individuals — to automatically assume a preference for democracies 
would be perverse. “Some investors don’t want to invest in countries that have a problem with racism. Does that 
mean we shouldn’t invest in the US?” he asks.
‘Turning a blind eye to abuses’ 
Many fund managers say they are simply deferring to widely-used bond benchmarks against which their 
performance is judged when explaining why they invest in countries with poor human rights records.
Belarus remains part of the benchmark JPMorgan emerging market bond index, a broad index of countries 
accessible to investors. Such indices aim to provide a snapshot of investable assets, rather than make moral 
judgments about inclusion. JPMorgan said in April it was considering ejecting Russian bonds because US sanctions 
might render it impractical or illegal to purchase them. Most fund managers take a similar view, preferring to wait 
until sanctions are threatened or in place before selling.
ESG bond indices, which are often based on ratings from specialist firms and which are designed to provide clarity 
on ethical investing, can add to the confusion.
The widely used JPMorgan ESG EMBI Global Diversified index uses ESG scoring and screening “to tilt toward 
issuers ranked higher on ESG criteria and green bond issues, and to underweight and remove issuers that rank 
lower”. Its biggest exposure is to the United Arab Emirates at 5.2 per cent. Yet, hundreds of activists, academics 
and lawyers are  in prison in the UAE, “in many cases following unfair trials on vague and broad charges”, 
according to HRW.
Saudi Arabia is the index’s third-biggest weighting, while China is also included. As well as being followed by many 
active managers, the index is also tracked — replicated in an investable fund — for instance by a $1.3bn exchange-
traded fund run by BlackRock.
More than 37 per cent of the bonds in the JPMorgan EMBI index are issued by countries labelled “not free” by 
human rights campaign group Freedom House. Even in the ESG version of the index, that figure is 34 per cent — a 
larger proportion than bonds issued by “free” countries.
Some managers have begun to take action themselves. AkademikerPension, a Danish pension fund for academics, 
sold out of Belarus bonds in April on human rights grounds, and now excludes 45 countries, including China, Saudi 
Arabia and Venezuela. 
The fund has taken a harder line because its members have made it clear human rights are a priority when 
choosing investments, chief executive Jens Munch Holst says. Even so, working out where to draw the line is 
difficult.
ESG investing: funds weigh sovereign debt profits against human rights
“It’s a dilemma. Whenever we exclude a country, we always get asked ‘why not these other countries too?’” he 
says. “At some point too many exclusions might start to hurt our returns — it hasn’t yet.”
Holst says the fund has excluded Belarus while continuing to buy Russian assets “because we think the repression 
in Belarus is worse”. 
Such a swingeing approach is rare, but there are increasing signs that other investors are taking notice of human 
rights. Germany’s Union Investment decided not to buy Tajikistan’s bonds because of human rights abuses. The 
firm also raised the Khashoggi killing with Saudi representatives in 2019 and the  dominant role of the military with 
the Egyptian government, says Christian Kopf, head of fixed income and currencies.
But often appeals made to fund managers either by activists or those directly affected by human rights violations 
have little impact.
“Certain investors are [turning] a blind eye to human rights abuses in some countries,” says Vytis Jurkonis of 
Freedom House. “They are contributing to the survival of [those] regimes.”
A detained diplomat’s case
A poor human rights record also appears to be little barrier to countries building a new presence in bond markets.
Since the death of authoritarian dictator Islam Karimov in 2016, Uzbekistan, which used to rank alongside North 
Korea for its political rights and civil liberties, has been vocal in trying to open up to the outside world.  President 
Shavkat Mirziyoyev has released political prisoners, lifted exchange controls and encouraged political debate. This 
year the central Asian country published its first report on its ESG progress, which said it had introduced laws to 
enhance civil and economic rights and was working to eradicate forced labour in its cotton industry.
Yield-hungry investors have flooded in. A debut eurobond in 2019 and a subsequent issue late last year were 
heavily oversubscribed, raising more than $1.5bn. Blue-chip investors such as T Rowe Price, M&G, Candriam and 
Neuberger Berman bought in.
But concerns are growing over the pace of reform and the state of human rights in the country. HRW notes on its 
website that “grave rights violations, including impunity for torture and abuse of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and trans 
(LGBT) people, persist” while “journalists and bloggers are harassed and arbitrarily prosecuted”.
Kadyr Yusupov, 69, a former high-ranking Uzbek diplomat convicted of treason by a closed court last year, is one of 
those said to have been mistreated.
In April last year Yusupov, who is being held at a prison colony, raised concerns about prisoner welfare. According 
to a December 2020 submission to a UN working party by Yusupov’s son Babur — who says his father was wrongly 
convicted — the former diplomat was threatened and put in a punishment cell.
After two days of hunger strike, Yusupov was transferred to a cell measuring 1.5 metres by 2 metres, containing a 
metal chair and a bed, as well as a torn mattress that was taken away during the day. The toilet was a hole in the 
ground, and the cell was, according to the submission, infested with small scorpions and snakes. The filing also 
details alleged psychological torture by Uzbek security services, including threats of sexual violence against him, 
his wife and daughter, and threats to arrest his sons.
In May this year the UN working group on arbitrary detention found that Yusupov’s imprisonment contravened five 
articles of its Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and called for his immediate release. Uzbekistan’s ministries 
of justice and foreign affairs did not respond to requests for comment.
“It’s been remarkable how people have just said ‘we don’t really care too much about what’s going on politically and 
locally, because the credit is so healthy’,” says Max Hess, central Asian fellow at the Foreign Policy Research 
Institute. He points to Uzbekistan’s large gold reserves and good record on investor relations as being attractive to 
fund managers.
ESG investing: funds weigh sovereign debt profits against human rights
Investors including Neuberger Berman, Candriam and M&G point to signs of ESG progress in Uzbekistan. 
Neuberger says it is monitoring the situation, “including the case of Mr Yusupov, and should we get more evidence 
that Uzbekistan is regressing on the reform momentum, we would look to reduce our exposure”. 
Since March 2021,  EU rules have required fund managers to disclose how they account for the ESG impacts of 
their investments. And from 2023 they will be asked to provide further information on the human rights records of 
the countries they lend to, giving investors greater transparency.
And, says Sebastiaan Greeven, manager in ESG and sustainability at consultancy MJ Hudson, investors will use 
the information to decide where to put their money. “This is going to become really big.”
For some, such pressure cannot come soon enough.
Prakofyeu and his colleagues have written to more than 25 bondholders and banks about Belarus, and only a 
handful have replied. 
Yusupov’s son, Babur, has also had little success. He contacted JPMorgan, which underwrote Uzbekistan’s bonds, 
in 2019 shortly after his father’s arrest and again on June 23 this year. JPMorgan acknowledged him at the start of 
July — around 90 minutes after the Financial Times contacted the company to ask about its involvement in 
Uzbekistan. JPMorgan declined to comment.
Following the UN ruling, Babur emailed Aberdeen Standard Investments, an investor in the bonds, to request help 
in highlighting the case. In a statement on its website in May the firm said that “as active investors, fulfilling our 
human rights responsibilities requires ongoing engagement and effort to drive positive change”. 
Babur Yusupov is still waiting to receive a reply from the fund manager.
Load-Date: July 14, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair aims to hire 2,000 pilots over next three years
Ryanair aims to hire 2,000 pilots over next three years
 
FT.com
July 12, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 294 words
Byline: Harry Dempsey
Body
Ryanair is planning to hire 2,000 pilots over the next three years in one of the aviation industry’s biggest recruitment 
drives since the start of the pandemic. 
The hiring spree will add to the current roster of 5,000 pilots at Europe’s largest airline. It is also aiming to increase 
annual passenger numbers by more than a third within three years over pre-pandemic levels.
“We are delighted to start planning for a return to growth over the coming years as we recover from the Covid-19 
crisis and grow to 200m guests by financial year 2024,” said Darrell Hughes, people director at Ryanair.
In May last year, the company had warned that it would need to cut 3,000 jobs but said it escaped without making 
any of its pilots redundant during the pandemic. Some cabin crew have lost their jobs.
However, its pilots did agree to take a 20 per cent cut to their pay, which will be restored to its original levels over 
four years.
Ryanair said it needed more pilots to operate its new Boeing 737 Max jets — the first delivery of its order of more 
than 210 arrived last month. The new aircraft should help the company to reduce fuel use, carbon emissions and 
costs. 
Ryanair will start training pilots this year, aiming to have them ready to fly by next summer.
Ryanair aims to hire 2,000 pilots over next three years
Its investments in planes and staff contrast with difficulties elsewhere in the industry. As of April, more than 18,000 
pilot jobs are threatened or have been permanently lost during the pandemic, according to the European Cockpit 
Association.
Ryanair is betting on pent-up demand for when curbs on overseas travel ease. Chief executive Michael O’Leary 
reckons that rivals will be unable to meet that demand, forecasting a 20 per cent fall in the number of short-haul 
seats available in Europe over the next few years.
Load-Date: July 12, 2021
End of Document
Can Wizz challenge Ryanair as king of Europe’s skies?
Can Wizz challenge Ryanair as king of Europe’s skies?
 
FT.com
July 9, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1008 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
For years Michael O’Leary has been the undisputed king of the European skies.
The Irish executive has grown Ryanair from a low-cost upstart into the region’s dominant airline by offering cheap 
fares through an ultra-efficient business model that rivals have been unable to match. 
But when the aviation industry emerges from the rubble of the pandemic, O’Leary will have competition. 
Hungarian carrier Wizz Air has an equally low-cost business and is set on continuing a period of breakneck 
expansion and moving further into western Europe. 
Even while the rest of their industry crumbles, O’Leary and Wizz Air chief executive József Váradi have spent the 
past year touting the opportunities emerging. 
Both airlines are taking on new aircraft, scooping up take off and landing slots and opening new bases, while rivals 
with weaker balance sheets such as Alitalia and Norwegian Air Shuttle retrench or collapse.
Neither is immune to the immediate impact of the pandemic, and both companies have bled hundreds of millions of 
euros over the past year. 
But their shares have recovered from heavy losses and are close to all-time highs, a sign that investors agree that 
low-cost is the future of European aviation.
Can Wizz challenge Ryanair as king of Europe’s skies?
For the confident O’Leary this is nothing less than “the greatest growth opportunity” in Ryanair’s 35-year history, 
particularly as he expects there to be a 20 per cent fall in the number of short-haul seats available from rivals in 
Europe over the next few years as they shrink.
Varadi, a fast-talking Hungarian, is less dramatic but equally confident. “We think we are going to be a 
much . . . more competitive airline and more formidable competing force post pandemic,” he said. 
The scale of FTSE 250 listed Wizz’s ambition was revealed last week when shareholders were asked to back a 
blockbuster pay plan, which will hand Varadi a £100m bonus if he increases the airline’s share price from £48 to 
£120 over the next five years. That would give it a market capitalisation of nearly £12bn, about a third smaller than 
Ryanair’s now.
The company listed in London at £11.50 in 2015, but its shares have rocketed as investors have welcomed the first 
serious low-cost competition to Ryanair to emerge and “the last great growth story in European aviation”, according 
to Bernstein aviation analyst Daniel Roeska. 
Varadi has masterminded Wizz’s growth from the beginning. With a background as an economist and a career at 
Procter & Gamble and Hungarian carrier Malev behind him, he approached American investor Bill Franke in 2004 
with a plan for a regional airline. 
Franke, one of history’s most successful aviation investors and an early backer of Ryanair too, persuaded him to 
adopt the low-cost model and within six weeks Varadi had presented him with a new business plan. 
“I liked József, he is a smart guy, a direct guy and we ended up making an investment,” Franke remembered. 
“It has been a very successful model, and we have for a private equity fund been unusually long tenured . . . We are 
now at 17 years and it has been a significantly favourable investment for us.”
Wizz’s corporate structure, with a London listing, Hungarian base for cheap labour and Swiss tax registration has 
left it the only airline to be able to match, and in some places beat Ryanair’s ultra low cost operating model. 
London-listed easyJet competes with legacy carriers at expensive airports and is not considered ultra-low-cost, 
while airlines such as British Airways are more reliant on long-haul and business travel.
Both Ryanair and Wizz claim to have the lowest unit cost in the industry, but analysts at Bernstein believe Wizz just 
has the edge, although O’Leary in his typical forthright manner dismisses this as “bullshit” based on theoretical 
future fleets. 
Wizz’s growth has been fuelled by stimulating demand for flying and connecting cities in central and eastern 
Europe, where analysts believe there are still opportunities as economies grow. 
The Hungarian airline has also moved into parts of western Europe, and has opened several bases in the UK. But 
to hit his target Varadi will inevitably have to move further into Ryanair’s turf. 
“The jury is still out. Wizz is being more aggressive in bringing capacity back in this year, but they are not filling it to 
the extent Ryanair is,” said aviation consultant Edmond Rose. 
O’Leary concedes Wizz has a “reasonably compelling growth story”, has respect for the way Varadi runs the 
business, and sees “niches” for Wizz. But he rejects the idea that it could challenge his dominant position.
“To be fair, they are good on this schlock about oh, you know, we’ve got lower costs than Ryanair, and therefore 
ultimately we’re going to replicate Ryanair returns over the last 20 years . . . the real difficulty for the Wizz model is 
that they can’t explain how the hell you can expand dramatically in western Europe when Ryanair is already there.”
Can Wizz challenge Ryanair as king of Europe’s skies?
While Wizz plans to take on new aircraft in the coming years to grow its fleet from about 140 to 270 planes, O’Leary 
has an order for more than 200 new aircraft from Boeing, which he notes is “the same size as Wizz’s whole bloody 
fleet” and will leave Ryanair with 600 planes by 2026. 
Varadi is more diplomatic and has been briefing investors that there is space for both to grow. 
“I think the real question is what is going to happen to the others who don’t have the cost base and the capacity to 
grow,” he said. “I am sure Ryanair will do great coming out of the pandemic, but I think we will be doing even 
better.”
Arguably, the key question facing Wizz is whether it can preserve its low-costs as it moves into western European 
airports, with pressure over unionisation and wages, challenges that Ryanair had to face as it matured.
For Franke, competition is inevitable. He counts O’Leary as a friend, but added: “We are not intimidated or afraid of 
Ryanair.” 
Even O’Leary believes Wizz is a better proposition for an investor than any other airline in Europe. Except one, of 
course. “I would say to anybody investing in Wizz, why are you not investing in Ryanair?”
Load-Date: July 9, 2021
End of Document
Air travel surges back to life
Air travel surges back to life
 
FT.com
July 2, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 821 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Airline traffic surged last month as passengers resumed travelling to ahead of the rollout of the European Union’s  
Digital Covid Certificate.
Ryanair said it carried 5.3m passengers in June, up from just 400,000 a year earlier. Its load factor — the 
percentage of available seating capacity occupied — was 72 per cent. 
For the fiscal first quarter ended June Ryanair reported carrying 8.1m passengers in total and a load factor of 73 
per cent. Speaking on Bloomberg Television, chief executive Michael O’Leary said the company is seeing a “very 
strong recovery in bookings” for inter-European travel. 
Wizz Air said it carried just under 1.6m passengers in June, from around 500,000 a year before, at a load factor of 
64 per cent.
Briefly
Rishi Sunak has unveiled a  series of reforms designed to boost the City of London’s global pull for share trading 
and listings, following the loss of business after Brexit. The chancellor on Thursday set out details of proposed 
changes to rules governing stock market listings, stock, bond and commodity trading and insurance, underscoring 
the UK’s willingness to split from the EU rule book it had once helped write.
Air travel surges back to life
Video games developer Team17 agreed to buy StoryToys, a maker of apps aimed at children under the age of 
eight for partners including Lego, Disney, Pixar and Nickelodeon. Team17 agreed to pay $26.5m cash for 
StoryToys with a further maximum $22.5m payable based on three-year performance targets.  
The Gym Group raised £31.2m with a share placing to accelerate rollout plans with a target of 40 new openings in 
the next 18 months, with scope in the longer term to double the size of its current estate of 187 gyms. The company 
said it had sold new shares at 275p apiece versus Thursday’s closing level of 285p.
Aim-quoted Omega Diagnostics said its technology partner Mologic has filed a submission to the US Food and 
Drug Administration requesting emergency use authorisation for the companies’ rapid point-of-care Covid-19 
antigen test.
CMO Group, an online-only retailer of building materials, will join Aim with a market value of £95m after completing 
an initial share sale. The company raised approximately £45m at 132p apiece to provide long-term funding, reduce 
debt and restructure its balance sheet.
More than twice as many FTSE 100 companies have faced a shareholder pay revolt this year than last, as 
investors  attacked managements seen to be profiting during a tough 12 months for many in the pandemic. So-
called low votes — of less than 80 per cent of shareholders — in favour of annual remuneration reports have risen 
to 12 per cent in 2021 so far, from 5 per cent in 2020, according to an analysis by Deloitte.
UK pension schemes are  wasting billions of pounds each year paying fees to underperforming asset managers, 
according to a Financial Conduct Authority study that highlights the weak value for money delivered to retirement 
savers.
The secretive process to elect the lord mayor of London was  thrown into disarray after senior officials in the City 
raised questions over whether one of the leading candidates was eligible for the role. Nick Lyons, chair of the 
insurer Phoenix, is one of the final two candidates seeking to become lord mayor in 2022 but his application has led 
to objections from some City leaders after they discovered that he holds an Irish passport. They believe the rules 
require the lord mayor to be a British subject.
Job moves
Qinetiq chief financial officer David Smith will retire at the end of November, the defence technology group said. 
His successor will be Carol Borg, currently chief financial officer of solar developer Lightsource BP.
Beyond the Square Mile
The world’s leading economies have signed up  to a plan to force multinational companies to pay a global 
minimum corporate tax rate of at least 15 per cent following negotiations at the OECD in Paris. The rules should 
be put in place next year and implemented in 2023.
Robinhood is targeting a  valuation of $40bn or more in its initial public offering, people familiar with the plans told 
the FT after the online brokerage published its fundraising prospectus. 
The US stock market rose to  further highs overnight as investors awaited the Federal Reserve’s next move ahead 
of crucial jobs data on Friday.
Essential comment before you go
Bryce Elder Elliott Advisors’  list of demands for GlaxoSmithKline contained very little that the company has not 
proposed already. The activist hedge fund is skilled at reputation leverage but without substantive objections to the 
turnround plan, its lobbying to strengthen management is a sideshow.
Merryn Somerset Webb
Air travel surges back to life
Any fund managers interested in value  have a problem. Buying what look like cheap stocks and waiting for them to 
go up without correctly calculating the odds of the arrival of a private equity bid or similar catalyst can present a 
material career risk. To survive you have to deliver performance year in year out.
Load-Date: July 2, 2021
End of Document
Russian crime but little punishment
Russian crime but little punishment
 
FT.com
July 2, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1690 words
Byline: Peter Spiegel
Body
I’m Peter Spiegel, the FT’s US managing editor, filling in for Edward Luce, who is on a much-deserved vacation. 
Much-deserved and well-timed, since the two of us have been engaged in a weeks-long private spat over his take 
on  Joe Biden’s Russia policy and Ed’s departure means I can finally hit back in public — and he’ll be unable to 
respond.
Let me start with an anecdote. A few weeks ago, I travelled to Greece to participate in one of the first big 
conferences on the European circuit to hold sessions in person. It soon became clear that I wasn’t the only 
vaccinated person who made that choice: the event’s main dinner — held under the stars on the roof of Athens’ city 
hall — was also attended by a handful of European commissioners and regional prime ministers, all of whom sat at 
the table of honour with their host, the Greek capital’s charismatic mayor.
More tellingly, however, was the slightly-less-glamorous table nearby. That one included Athens’ vice-mayor, a 
respected but less-than-famous FT journalist, and Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, the Belarusian opposition leader who 
had been living in exile in Vilnius for almost a year.
None of those attending that night could have known the significance of Tsikhanouskaya’s decision to travel to 
Athens with a small retinue of aides. A week later one of them, flying back to Vilnius, would find his Ryanair  flight 
diverted to Minsk — and then detained and paraded on Belarusian TV with what appeared to be bruises on his 
head and face. 
Still, Tsikhanouskaya’s relegation to the also-ran table was, to me, symbolic of the west’s approach to Russia. 
Vladimir Putin has invaded his neighbours (Georgia, Ukraine); poisoned his political enemies (Sergei Skripal, Alexei 
Navalny); hacked western election campaigns (Hillary Clinton, Emmanuel Macron); and propped up authoritarian 
Russian crime but little punishment
despots (Bashar al-Assad, Alexander Lukashenko). And yet the west always seems ready to quickly normalise 
relations with the Kremlin, relegating those bad acts to a sort of collective amnesia. Those who stand up to him and 
his thuggish allies are seated at the second-tier table with the likes of me. 
Joe Biden campaigned as someone different. He and his top foreign policy adviser Antony Blinken — now secretary 
of state — vowed to return human rights and democratic values to the heart of American foreign policy after four 
years of amoral Trumpism and eight years of Kissingerian realpolitik under Barack Obama. But when I asked one of 
Tsikhanouskaya’s aides what the Biden administration had told them since taking office, he had to sheepishly admit 
nobody had been in contact. Can you really be putting democratic values back at the heart of American foreign 
policy and not even reach out to one of the world’s most important fighters for democracy, one whose husband is 
still in prison for her temerity?
Instead, Biden offered Putin that which he most covets: a place back on the international stage, with all the pomp 
and circumstance that comes with a summit with an American president. And the timing could not have been worse, 
coming as it did when Putin’s standing at home was under real strain for perhaps the first time because of the 
Kremlin’s persecution of anti-Putin activist Navalny.
Biden sought to argue, counter-intuitively, that Putin’s misbehaviour was the very reason to hold a summit: he 
would tell the Russian president to his face just how opposed the US was to his treatment of Navalny, and his 
hacking of US elections, and his stifling of a free press (his support for Lukashenko’s brutal crackdown against 
Tsikhanouskaya and her supporters appears to have not made the agenda).
But what more does a foreign leader have to do to get on Biden’s democracy and human rights blacklist? Time and 
again, American presidents have sought to find accommodation with Putin in order to “manage” the relationship. 
But time and again, that policy has failed. He has not stopped invading his neighbours. He has not stopped 
poisoning opposition figures. He has not stopped interfering in the elections of the US and its European allies. 
Perhaps it is time to change the policy. 
Ed rightfully argued that at least Biden did not repeat the rhetorical mistakes of his predecessors, who sought a 
“reset” with the Kremlin despite the presence of Russian troops on Georgian soil (Obama) or claimed to look into 
Putin’s eyes and get a sense of his soul (George W Bush). 
But Biden’s decision to reward Putin with a summit so early in his presidency appears to have opened the 
floodgates to the worst instincts of America’s allies. Already, Germany’s Angela Merkel and France’s Macron have 
begun agitating for  an EU summit with Putin, only to have it rightfully blocked by Poland and the Baltics, who have 
to live with Putin’s misconduct in their backyards. 
In foreign policy circles, it seems widely accepted that Biden’s restraint towards Putin is a direct product of his 
decision to more aggressively confront China. But General Mark Milley, chair of the joint chiefs of staff, once called 
Russia the single biggest threat to American security because of its still-significant military capabilities and its clear 
intent to destabilise the US and its allies. Russia, not China. 
Rana, I hate to drag you into a spat between two of your dearest colleagues, but I’m going to ask you to make a 
call. Who’s right, me or Ed? Can Blinken and Biden, who as a candidate wrote so eloquently about the  need to 
strengthen our democracies at home and abroad, credibly claim to be advocates for democracy and human rights 
while failing to aggressively confront Putinism in all its guises?
A note to readers: Swamp Notes will be off on Monday due to the holiday weekend. We’ll be back in your inbox next 
Friday. Edward Luce is on leave and will return in mid-July.
Recommended reading
•
I spent eight years covering the Pentagon after the September 11 attacks, so I have spent much of the last 
few days reading obituaries written by several former colleagues about a man I spent quite a lot of time 
with back then: Donald Rumsfeld. By far the toughest is by the Atlantic’s highly respected war chronicler 
George Packer, who deems Rumsfeld  “the worst secretary of defence in American history”. There are 
Russian crime but little punishment
some judgments I disagree with in Packer’s take, but the one thing that rings most true to me is his 
description of Rumsfeld as a man so devoid of self-doubt that he refused to listen to experienced hands in 
the uniformed military or at the State Department who repeatedly warned him of the errors of his war plans 
— even as they went horribly awry. 
•
For anyone trying to get up to speed on Thursday’s criminal charges against longtime Trump consigliere 
Allen Weisselberg, I highly recommend my colleague Joshua Chaffin’s recent deep dive into  
Weisselberg’s (and his family’s) role in the Trump empire. Josh also did a great take on the man bringing 
the charges against the Trump Organization,  outgoing Manhattan district attorney Cyrus Vance.
•
Like most of political New York, I’ve been obsessing about the complete mess the city’s board of elections 
has made of the mayoral vote count this week. How do you  accidentally count 100,000 “test” votes and 
not notice until you release totals to the public? I know Rana has been enthusiastic about  Eric Adams’ 
candidacy, but I’ve become a sceptic ever since reading this recent  profile in New York magazine, which 
makes Adams out to be an all-talk-no-action machine pol who mainly does favours for his political donors. 
The latest tally has hyper-competent  Kathryn Garcia, a former city sanitation commissioner, nipping at 
Adams’ heels. That gives me some hope.
Rana Foroohar responds
Peter, first, let me say that no table with you could possibly be second rate (and I’m not just saying that because 
you are the boss). Secondly, the good news for me is that I can hedge and say, you are both right — at least in 
terms of your political reading. 
Peter, I absolutely agree with you that today’s Russia really can’t be part of any “alliance of democracies” that Biden 
is trying to create. To say otherwise is to make a farce of the entire concept. I understand that Europeans 
(particularly Germans) feel in a vice between the US and the Russia-China alliance; as I wrote this past week, they 
don’t want to make any diplomatic choices yet because they aren’t sure whether the Biden administration is just a 
way station on the route to  more toxic America populism.
However, as I wrote in two columns from a few weeks ago, I have very little patience for the hypocrisy of Macron 
cozying up to Putin, the  EU cutting preferential trade deals with China, or Germans complaining about “Buy 
America” while they cut the  Nord Stream pipeline deal with Russia. All of it reflects a core truth, which is that we 
are at a geopolitical turning point the likes of which we haven’t seen since the Nixon administration — but I won’t 
say more about that here, since it’s the topic of my own Monday column! How’s that for a diplomatic pivot? 
Your feedback
And now a word from our Swampians . . . 
In response to  ‘America (finally) gets an industrial strategy’:
“I appreciate that Peter has moved beyond thinking that industrial policy should only be used in wartime but the 
Operation Warp Speed was a form of warfare, just not in the traditional sense and as such it was entirely reactive. 
Industrial policy should be an integral part of national security. It is not to create national champions but rather to 
ensure that there is a nation. It should not be intended to ensure the lowest cost. The drive to the lowest cost is the 
doorway to exploitation and the destruction of competition. The sooner we recognise that the better.” — Mark 
Goldman, London, England
In response to  ‘The well-earned demise of UBI’:“Is it not at least possible the UBI would, like free school meals, 
be a kind of marker, rising out of which to earn serious money might be quite difficult? Though a country in which 
just shy of a fifth of school children are eligible for free school meals certainly needs to act rather than fiddle.” — 
Marian Hobson, Cambridge, England
Catch up on previous Swamp Notes on  FT.com.
Russian crime but little punishment
Load-Date: November 30, 2021
End of Document
Wizz Air offers chief Varadi £100m bonus in return for rapid growth
Wizz Air offers chief Varadi £100m bonus in return for rapid growth
 
FT.com
July 2, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 732 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Attracta Mooney
Body
Wizz Air will hand its chief executive Jozsef Varadi a £100m bonus if he can rapidly grow the low-cost airline as it 
emerges from the pandemic, setting up one of the biggest ever payouts from a London-listed company. 
Varadi will need to more than double Wizz’s share price from £48 to £120 over the next five years to hit the one-off 
award, which would be paid in shares over a four-year period, according to documents sent to shareholders ahead 
of the company’s annual meeting and seen by the Financial Times.
The potential windfall underlines Wizz’s aggressive expansion plans across Europe, as well as its reliance on 
Varadi to execute them. 
It would also leave the Hungarian better paid than almost all his peers in the European airline industry, including 
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary, who signed a contract in 2019, which included a €99m payout from stock options, 
dependent on the airline’s share price or profitability over five years. 
Other big payouts in the UK include Bet365’s £421m package for Denise Coates for the year to the end of March 
2020, which made the founder of the private gambling company the best-paid executive in the country.
Tim Steiner, chief executive of Ocado, ranked as the highest paid chief executive of a FTSE 100 company in 2019, 
taking home £58.7m. 
He is expected to receive up to £100m over five years if shares continue to rise, despite a shareholder backlash 
when the scheme was introduced in 2019. 
Wizz Air offers chief Varadi £100m bonus in return for rapid growth
And earlier this year, Cineworld was hit with a revolt by shareholders over a proposed bonus scheme that would 
pay out up to £65m to its chief executive Mooky Greidinger. 
Varadi, who was one of the airline’s founders in 2003, has grown it into one of the most significant players in 
European aviation thanks to cheap fares made possible by an ultra-low cost business model. 
The board was aware of at least three other job offers Varadi has received, a person familiar with the matter said, 
underlining their desire to hang on to him at almost any cost. 
The £100m is the maximum Varadi can be paid if the share price increases at a compound annual growth rate of 20 
per cent over the five years. Anything between a 10 and 20 per cent growth rate will lead to him being paid between 
£20m and £100m, depending on share price performance. Varadi will also need to hit an emissions and gender 
diversity target. 
In a letter to shareholders ahead of the annual meeting, the chair of Wizz’s remuneration committee Barry 
Eccleston said the payout was needed to ensure Varadi committed his future to the Hungarian-based airline. 
Varadi’s contract ran out at the end of last year, and was extended while a new offer was drawn up. He has taken a 
pay cut during the pandemic, with a €1.97m salary this year.
Wizz’s board met investors representing about half of the company’s shares to discuss the bonus, and 
subsequently beefed up the performance target.
Shareholders will need to back the package at the annual meeting on July 27, which also includes a £50m bonus 
pool for other senior leadership, and smaller bonuses for all staff including cabin crew, whose comparatively low 
wages have helped make Wizz Air so competitive. 
During discussions, “a few shareholders” felt Varadi’s offer was too high “relative to the UK market at this point in 
time,” but the majority backed the focus on retaining him, Eccleston wrote. 
The starting point for the bonus period comes as Wizz’s shares are close to an all-time high even as the pandemic 
caused disruption across the industry. 
Wizz is confident it can emerge as a long-term winner, and has pledged to move into new markets as rivals 
retrench. Analysts are also bullish on the company’s prospects.
In recent years, UK shareholders and politicians have become increasingly outspoken about chief executives’ pay. 
In 2018, the bonus for Jeff Fairburn, then chief executive of housebuilder Persimmon, was slashed from £110m to 
£75m after an outcry. 
In 2019, MPs called for the introduction of a cap on total remuneration to avoid huge payouts, warning that soaring 
packages were a symbol of “corporate greed”. 
Some shareholders have begun taking a tougher stance on big pay packages, underlined by this year’s pay revolt 
at Cineworld.
They argue they are often out of kilter with the experience of the wider workforce and other stakeholders, although 
other big investors say large bonuses can be justified by strong performance.
Load-Date: July 2, 2021
End of Document
United places its biggest plane order in bet on return of premium travel
United places its biggest plane order in bet on return of premium travel
 
FT.com
June 29, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 477 words
Byline: Claire Bushey in Newark and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
United Airlines has placed an order for 270 jets, the biggest in the airline’s history, in a bet on a resurgence of 
premium travel after the pandemic.
The Chicago-based company said on Tuesday it was ordering 200 Boeing 737 Maxes and 70 Airbus A321neos and 
expected to create 25,000 jobs by 2026 linked to the order.
At the same time, United is reconfiguring its existing fleet with more first-class and premium economy seats and 
improved in-seat entertainment and overhead storage.
United’s plans are the latest signs of divergence between American and European airlines’ strategies.
As the pandemic ebbs in the US, more American carriers are placing orders. Southwest said in March it would take 
100 Boeing 737 Maxes, while Delta ordered another 25 Airbus A321neos in April. American Airlines had largely 
completed updating its fleet before the pandemic hit, leaving the airline with a higher debt load than peers. 
On the other side of the Atlantic, few carriers committed to significant new aircraft orders during the pandemic as 
they instead looked to conserve cash during the disruption. 
However, low-cost carrier Ryanair bucked the European trend in December with an order for 75 Boeing 737 Max 
jets with a list price of $22bn. Analysts at the time suggested the airline would have got a  “really screaming good 
deal”, underlining the benefits of having the cash to commit to aircraft purchases in the current climate. 
United places its biggest plane order in bet on return of premium travel
Combined with its current orders, United will add more than 500 new narrow-body jets to its fleet between 2022 and 
2024, as it retires about 300 planes, the bulk of them regional jets.
The number of United seats on US domestic flights will rise 30 per cent over the next five years, while the number 
of premium seats will rise 75 per cent compared with 2019 levels.
United’s shares fell 2.6 per cent on Monday on concerns about how the order would affect the company’s financial 
position. The list price of the planes is more than $30bn, but typically airlines pay about half the list price.
“It will be up to the company to articulate . . . how new orders change the investment trajectory while also providing 
room for debt reduction,” said Evercore ISI analyst Duane Pfennigwerth. “What is the path back to meaningful free 
cash flow, which will enable balance sheet repair for United?” 
Scott Kirby, chief executive, said the fleet changes would “revolutionise the experience of flying United as we 
accelerate our business to meet a resurgence in air travel”.
The airline has about $33bn in long-term debt. Like competitors, United raised cash from investors and the US 
government to survive the Covid-19 crisis, when travel curbs and passenger fears led to a collapse in air travel.
United continues to suffer from the decline in business travel. However, Andrew Nocella, chief commercial officer, 
said the situation had improved in recent weeks.
Load-Date: June 29, 2021
End of Document
Belarus moves dissident blogger and girlfriend from jail to house arrest
Belarus moves dissident blogger and girlfriend from jail to house arrest
 
FT.com
June 25, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 717 words
Byline: Max Seddon in Moscow, James Shotter in Warsaw and Michael Peel in Brussels
Body
Belarus has moved dissident blogger Roman Protasevich and his girlfriend Sofia Sapega to house arrest a month 
after President Alexander Lukashenko’s regime sparked international outrage when it captured them after forcing 
down a Ryanair flight.
Officials in Minsk said Protasevich and Sapega had struck a plea bargain under which the couple had agreed to co-
operate with investigators, “expose co-conspirators” and confess to protest-related charges under which they face 
up to 15 years in prison.
The office of Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, Belarus’s exiled opposition leader, said that the duo were still  “hostages”.
“We are in touch with Roman’s parents — they are not told anything about their son, they are not allowed to 
communicate with him,” Tsikhanouskaya’s office said in a statement.
Franak Viacorka, an aide to Tsikhanouskaya, said Belarus was attempting to engineer an easing of  new sanctions 
announced by the EU, US, UK and Canada this week. The restrictions target 86 individuals and organisations as 
well as the country’s potash and petroleum sectors, a crucial source of hard currency.
“We expect that under this sanction pressure the regime will be trying to exchange batches of prisoners for lifting 
sanctions. They are playing the same game as after the elections in 2006 and 2010, exchanging people for 
benefits,” he told the Financial Times.
“[The EU should] not trust a single word that Lukashenko says. Everyone has to be released unconditionally.” 
Belarus moves dissident blogger and girlfriend from jail to house arrest
EU leaders this week called for the “immediate release of all political prisoners and arbitrarily detained persons” in 
Belarus, including Protasevich and Sapega.
One senior EU diplomat said the offer from Minsk was dismissed by foreign ministers this week because they did 
not see it as a serious proposition. “The move by Lukashenko’s regime was ignored,” the official said. “The only 
thing the EU will consider discussing is an immediate release of all 500 political prisoners and fair elections.”
Protasevich’s arrest is part of Belarus’s brutal crackdown on dissent since huge protests against Lukashenko’s 
dubious election win last year. About 35,000 Belarusians have been arrested, several of whom claim they were 
tortured in custody. 
As the former editor of Nexta, the most prominent opposition channel on messaging app Telegram, Protasevich is 
accused of organising mass riots, and faces up to 15 years in jail if convicted. Sapega has been accused of causing 
unrest. 
Belarus has paraded the dissident blogger, clearly under duress, at a series of interviews and press conferences 
where he has praised Lukashenko. On Friday, state media published what it said was footage of Protasevich and 
Sapega going for a walk in downtown Minsk.
Sapega’s lawyer Anton Gashinsky told Russian newswires she had been allowed to meet her parents for lunch in a 
Minsk café on Thursday, but was trailed by security services and not allowed to use the phone or internet.
Gashinsky added that Sapega, a Russian citizen, owed her release to  Lukashenko’s meeting with Russian 
president Vladimir Putin after the Ryanair incident, and described her house arrest as a “very positive moment that 
will help find a positive solution to her fate in the near future”, according to Interfax. 
The Kremlin said it would “continue to protect [Sapega’s] lawful interests”.
The unexpected move from jail came a day after the EU formalised sanctions against Belarus over the downing of 
the flight, which Ryanair called a “state-sponsored hijacking”. 
A western diplomat said that moving Protasevich and Sapega to house arrest seemed to be part of an attempt to try 
to start negotiations with the west.
“It suggests there is a possible opening. It might be related to Russia, rather than the west, if Russia has told 
Belarus that it will have to bear the consequences [of the western sanctions] itself,” the diplomat said. “But to do this 
so late is quite stupid because once sanctions have been imposed, it is very difficult to get them revised — if that 
was the objective.”
Lukashenko, who has ruled Belarus with an iron fist for 27 years, claimed he deployed a fighter jet to escort down 
the Athens-Vilnius Ryanair flight in response to a fake bomb warning. He has also claimed the west is waging a 
“hybrid war” against Belarus.
Additional reporting by Michael Peel in Brussels
Load-Date: June 25, 2021
End of Document
Estonian PM warns west of damage from Covid-induced authoritarianism
Estonian PM warns west of damage from Covid-induced authoritarianism
 
FT.com
June 23, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 718 words
Byline: Richard Milne, Nordic and Baltic Correspondent
Body
The Covid-19 crisis could cause lasting damage to western liberal democracies that adopted authoritarian 
measures during the pandemic, Estonia’s prime minister has warned.
Kaja Kallas told the Financial Times she was afraid that some countries had been slow to relax restrictions on free 
movement of people and goods, even as vaccination rates increased.
“What we have seen in this Covid crisis, this urge for a strong hand or an authoritarian way of governing is deep in 
our societies, even in some countries you would never believe.” 
The prime minister of the smallest Baltic state said some governments had moved to vastly limit people’s rights. 
“Even if you don’t have the epidemiological reasons now, we are not giving people the freedoms back because it’s 
more convenient this way,” she said.
Estonia has been particularly exercised by travel restrictions in neighbouring Finland, which stopped numerous 
Estonians who work in the Nordic country from using ferries to return home. Finland relaxed those restrictions from 
Monday, after the interview with Kallas.
But the Estonian prime minister also criticised moves by bigger EU member states — including Germany and 
France — to impose export bans on protective equipment earlier in the pandemic. “These restrictions came quickly, 
out of nowhere. I’m worried that it’s too easily rising up in times of crisis,” she added.
Estonian PM warns west of damage from Covid-induced authoritarianism
Her comments carry weight as, since regaining its independence from the Soviet Union more than 30 years ago, 
Estonia has become one of the flag-bearers for liberal democracy as a staunch member of Nato and the EU.
Estonia — like its fellow Baltic states Latvia and Lithuania, which were also illegally annexed by the Soviet Union — 
has consistently warned the EU about the dangers from neighbouring Russia and Belarus.
Kallas said she was “glad” that last month’s  forced landing by Belarus of a Ryanair flight en route from Athens to 
Vilnius and the seizing of the dissident, Roman Protasevich, had “opened up some eyes” in the EU to the country’s 
authoritarian president Alexander Lukashenko.
Speaking ahead of Monday’s decision by the EU to impose wide-ranging new sanctions on Belarus, she said 
Europe needed to target how Lukashenko financed his regime.
“Sanctions must be targeted so that they hit  Lukashenko the most. The power structures in Belarus are behind 
Lukashenko so he feels quite secure. When he doesn’t have the money to finance the power structures, then there 
would be growing dissatisfaction and then there might be change,” she said in the interview which was conducted 
last week.
Kallas, Estonia’s  prime minister since January, said the Ryanair incident had clearly been a message to all 
dissidents. “You’re not safe anywhere, we’re going to get you.” 
She said the second message was: “We can do this. I don’t think they — meaning Belarus and Russia — expected 
any reaction. They only go as far as we let them.”
Before Kallas came to power, Estonia’s international image had taken a battering due to the presence in 
government of the far-right Ekre party, whose leaders have insulted everybody from gay people and immigrants to 
US president Joe Biden and Finland’s prime minister Sanna Marin.
The government coalition — including Ekre and led by the Centre party —  resigned in January over a sprawling 
property corruption scandal, paving the way for Kallas. 
But the 44-year-old has endured a difficult start as prime minister. Estonia was hit hard by the third Covid wave as 
soon as she took office, becoming in March the European nation with the highest infection rate.
She claimed she had “inherited” the Covid situation from the previous government. Talking about taking power 
during a pandemic, she added: “I don’t know any other government that has started in a more difficult time. But I’m 
not complaining. There is an Estonian saying: ‘A peaceful sea doesn’t make a good sailor.’ The sea has definitely 
been quite stormy.”
Still, Kallas has faced domestic criticism for her handling of the pandemic, although the situation is now improving. 
Meanwhile, Ekre, back in opposition, has reached record support levels in opinion polls.
Kallas said Ekre were more suited to opposition as they were “always against something”. But she also criticised 
her coalition partners Centre for trying to “outspeak the opposition”.
Load-Date: June 23, 2021
End of Document
Foul called on plan to let Euro 2020 VIPs into UK for Wembley games
Foul called on plan to let Euro 2020 VIPs into UK for Wembley games
 
FT.com
June 23, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 726 words
Byline: Murad Ahmed, Philip Georgiadis, Jim Pickard and Samuel Agini
Body
Plans to ease  quarantine requirements for thousands of VIP football delegates seeking to enter the UK for games 
in the  Euro 2020 football tournament have sparked outrage among politicians and travel industry figures.
Senior officials are holding talks with Uefa, European football’s governing body, to allow around 2,000 foreign fans 
and 2,000 VIPs to attend the July 6 and 7 semi-finals and July 11 final on of the competition at  London’s Wembley 
Stadium, according to people close to ongoing discussions.
The UK government said on Tuesday that it had agreed a deal with Uefa to keep the final and semi-final of the 
continent-wide competition in the British capital as planned after days of negotiation over the issue. 
The exact number of people allowed to escape  the more stringent quarantine rules will depend on the teams that 
qualify for the matches and whether their countries are on the UK’s amber or red lists for travel. Only those arriving 
from a small number of green-listed countries are currently allowed to avoid a quarantine period of up to 10 days on 
entry.
Instead, overseas attendees of the Euro 2020 matches will be told to stay in a “bubble” — allowed only to travel 
between airports, hotels and the stadium. Those attending for just one match would leave the UK within 24 hours of 
entry.
Foul called on plan to let Euro 2020 VIPs into UK for Wembley games
“If we hadn’t [eased quarantine requirements] we would have lost the semi-final and the final [of the Euros], people 
would have been furious,” said a senior government figure. “They’ve promised to stay in their bubbles and just 
watch the matches and not go to any restaurants. We just have to hope that they stick to that agreement.”
The government’s willingness to relax its restrictions for the sake of a football tournament drew anger from 
politicians, travel officials and supporters themselves. 
“No elite of any kind should be allowed or enabled to circumvent laws which suppress the rights of others, however 
necessary,” said Steve Baker, a Tory former minister. “It is a fundamental breach of the rule of law.” 
John Healey, Labour’s shadow defence minister, said the plan meant “one rule for important people . . . and one 
rule for the rest”.
A spokesperson for Ryanair said: “The fact that the UK government is even considering allowing these so-called 
‘Uefa VIPs’ dodge quarantine rules is laughable. What scientific data and facts are they working from . . . and how 
will it be enforced?”
Paul Corkrey, from Fans Embassy Wales, a supporters’ group, complained that plans were in stark contrast to the 
European travel restrictions preventing Welsh fans going to Amsterdam for their side’s knockout tie against 
Denmark on Saturday. 
“Uefa officials from all round the world, they let them in, and from red countries,” he said of the quarantine plan for 
the finals at Wembley. “This is where money comes into it in football and that’s the difference.” 
Nadine Houghton, an officer at the GMB union, said the quarantine rules should be applied equally to anyone 
entering the country, rather than waived for sponsors and officials “who have no reason to be there other than for a 
jolly”.
UK prime minister Boris Johnson has faced fierce criticism for not enforcing tougher border measures in recent 
weeks due to  the rise of the Delta variant, which first originated in India. 
Growing coronavirus cases in the UK led German chancellor Angela Merkel and Italian prime minister Mario Draghi  
this week to call for the Euro 2020 matches to be moved away from London. 
Major European football matches at the start of the pandemic were described as “super-spreader” events, leading 
politicians to be wary of allowing mass gatherings.
UK culture secretary Oliver Dowden said on Tuesday that the public health measures put in place for the Euro 2020 
tournament were “rigorous and tight”. 
Ministers have agreed to allow 60,000 spectators to watch the final matches at Wembley, up from 22,500 for the 
games that have taken place so far. Most ticket holders will be UK residents, but will need to show evidence of 
being double-vaccinated or having passed a coronavirus test.
The relaxed immigration rules around Euro 2020 came as the travel industry staged a day of protest to demand 
ministers open up borders and offer support to struggling companies. Ministers are set to announce the results of a 
regular review of restrictions on trips overseas on Thursday. 
Load-Date: June 28, 2021
End of Document
Belarus bonds tumble as investors brace for ‘ Venezuela -style’ sanctions
Belarus bonds tumble as investors brace for ‘Venezuela-style’ sanctions
 
FT.com
June 21, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 379 words
Byline: Tommy Stubbington in London
Body
Belarus’s government bond prices tumbled on Monday as the EU prepared to tighten sanctions against President  
Alexander Lukashenko’s regime for its  interception of a Ryanair flight to arrest a dissident.
The country’s dollar debt sank by about 5 per cent as investors reacted to reports that the new curbs could include 
a “Venezuela-style” ban on the trading of Belarusian securities that could leave bondholders unable to exit their 
positions.
“Sanctions that mean you can’t trade the bonds in the secondary market would go beyond anything we’ve seen 
imposed on Russia,” said Viktor Szabo, a portfolio manager at Aberdeen Standard Investments. “That would 
basically make them untouchable.”
The US has barred trading of Venezuelan debt since 2017, in effect shutting the market off to many foreign 
investors.
A Belarusian bond maturing in 2031, sold in June last year ahead of a contested election that triggered a brutal 
crackdown by Lukashenko on widespread protests, fell by nearly 5 cents to 87.7 cents on the dollar. 
Investors said little actual trading was taking place, with brokers quoting indicative prices at even steeper declines 
of 5-6 per cent. 
Belarus’s $3.6bn of dollar bonds, which traded higher than par value as recently as February, have slid in price after 
Belarusian authorities forced the aircraft to land last month, prompting international outrage. 
Belarus bonds tumble as investors brace for ‘ Venezuela -style’ sanctions
EU countries last week provisionally agreed to wide-ranging sanctions targeting Belarus’s financial, oil, and potash 
sectors in a significant escalation of the pressure on Lukashenko’s authoritarian government.
The package is due to be finalised by finance ministers on Monday ahead of endorsement by EU leaders at a 
summit on Thursday.
“The assumption is they will sanction primary issuance following the Russia example,” said Timothy Ash of BlueBay 
Asset Management, referring to an April move by the US to bar American investors from buying new Russian 
government debt. “What’s unusual is the possibility of a ban on trading securities. Then it’s Venezuela-style. People 
won’t want to be locked into holding these bonds.” 
Ash added that measures taken against Belarusian industries such as its large potash sector could be “crippling to 
the economy” and therefore undermine the government’s creditworthiness.
Load-Date: June 21, 2021
End of Document
Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya: Belarusian political prisoners used by regime as ‘hostages’
Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya: Belarusian political prisoners used by regime as 
‘hostages’
 
FT.com
June 21, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 703 words
Byline: James Shotter in Warsaw
Body
Belarusian opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya has accused the country’s president Alexander Lukashenko 
of using political prisoners as “hostages”, as the EU prepares to increase sanctions on his regime.
Lukashenko has been battling to reassert his control over Belarus since his claim of a landslide victory in a flawed 
election last August triggered the  biggest protests in Belarus’s independent history.
About 35,000 Belarusians have been arrested in the ensuing crackdown, with many claiming they have been 
tortured. Lukashenko has also targeted the media, forcing Belarus’s main  independent news portal offline. Last 
month, he deployed a fighter jet to  intercept a Ryanair flight and arrested Roman Protasevich, a dissident who was 
on board.
In an interview with the Financial Times Tsikhanouskaya described the repression as “Stalin-like”, and the worst 
that Belarusians had endured since  Lukashenko came to power in 1994, three years after the country declared 
independence from the USSR.
“We could never imagine that the regime could be so cruel. Of course, in the past we had oppression of 
demonstrations, but we never had so many people [being arrested]. People are really scared. They are frightened 
to go outside, to live,” the exiled leader said.
“The regime is now collecting as many hostages as possible to trade in exchange for lifting sanctions.” 
Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya: Belarusian political prisoners used by regime as ‘hostages’
EU foreign ministers are due to meet on Monday to finalise the latest in a series of sanctions they have imposed on 
Lukashenko’s regime since last year’s election and the brutal crackdown on dissent that followed. 
Diplomats told the FT on Friday that member states had  provisionally agreed to target Belarus’s financial, oil, 
potash and tobacco sectors, which are seen as key sources of foreign currency for the regime.
Tsikhanouskaya said it was important that the measures were rolled out in force. “If the sanctions are imposed step 
by step, it’s easier for the regime to find ways out,” she said. “But if they are imposed in one go, it’s much more 
difficult to evade them.”
The latest round of sanctions was triggered by the detention of Protasevich, who infuriated Lukashenko by playing  
a key role in reporting on and co-ordinating last year’s protests.
Since his arrest, Protasevich — who was seen with apparent bruises on his face and livid marks on his wrists — 
has been paraded by the regime at a series of recordings and press conferences in which he praised Lukashenko.
 Tsikhanouskaya condemned Lukashenko’s actions, saying he was acting out of “hatred” and fear of change in 
Belarus. She said it was clear Protasevich had been speaking under duress. 
“Roman is in danger,” she added. “His task is to survive there. No one can understand — especially people in 
democratic countries — how people are threatened [in Belarusian prisons]. It’s immoral even to discuss the content 
of these press conferences or these interviews. We have to discuss how to release him, and that is it.”
Human rights groups say there are now more than 500 political prisoners in Belarus as a result of Lukashenko’s 
crackdown. Among them is Tsikhanouskaya’s husband Siarhei, who was detained last year, thwarting his plans to 
run against Lukashenko for the presidency. He is due to face a closed hearing later this week along with several 
other dissidents, including the blogger, Ihar Losik.
Tsikhanouskaya said it was unclear what would happen at the hearing given the captured nature of Belarus’s 
judicial system. She renewed her call for the release of all political prisoners, adding that the EU should not relax 
sanctions before this had been achieved.
“In all my meetings I have urged EU leaders: don’t let the regime trade with political prisoners. Everybody has to be 
released,” she said. “House arrest is not freedom. Forcing people out of the country is not freedom.”
Tsikhanouskaya said the only way out of Belarus’s political crisis was for a fresh, free and fair vote to be held.
“When everyone is released, it doesn’t mean that our crisis is over. Absolutely not. It is a precondition of getting out 
of this crisis. But that’s all,” she said. “Then the next stage is dialogue with the regime and new elections . . . New 
elections — this is the only way out.”
Load-Date: June 21, 2021
End of Document
EU agrees new sanctions to ‘tighten thumbscrews’ on Belarus
EU agrees new sanctions to ‘tighten thumbscrews’ on Belarus
 
FT.com
June 21, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 793 words
Byline: Michael Peel in Brussels, James Shotter in Warsaw and Max Seddon in Moscow
Body
EU countries have agreed to impose wide-ranging new sanctions on economic sectors and government officials in  
Belarus as President Alexander Lukashenko’s regime ratchets up its pressure on high-profile dissidents. 
Foreign ministers from the European bloc on Monday took action against a further 86 individuals and organisations 
and set their sights on industries including finance, potash and petroleum products. The US, UK and Canada also 
announced additional sanctions against Belarus officials and entities in a move co-ordinated with Brussels in an 
attempt to force the regime to “end its repressive practices against its own people”. 
The planned EU economic sanctions, which still await finalisation and legal sign-off, mark a step up in the targeting 
of Lukashenko’s 27-year-old authoritarian rule. They are a response to Minsk’s interception last month of a Ryanair 
flight to arrest the blogger Roman Protasevich, part of a crackdown against the opposition since presidential 
elections last year. Protasevich’s girlfriend Sofia Sapega, a student, was also detained. 
“We have to tighten the thumbscrews after this callous action of state air piracy,” Alexander Schallenberg, Austria’s 
foreign minister, told reporters ahead of the meeting in Luxembourg where ministers agreed the sanctions. “We 
want to hit the state-affiliated economic sector, those responsible, not the people in Belarus, who are suffering 
anyway.”
The EU slapped asset freezes and travel bans on eight entities and 78 individuals in Belarus, including the defence 
minister and transport minister. The bloc has already imposed similar measures against scores of other officials, 
including Lukashenko.
EU agrees new sanctions to ‘tighten thumbscrews’ on Belarus
The economic measures are designed to hit some of the eastern European country’s main export sectors. The EU 
wants to choke off funds to the Lukashenko regime, including via the state companies that dominate the Belarus 
economy. 
Josep Borrell, EU foreign policy chief, said the sanctions would “hurt the economy of Belarus heavily”. Heiko Maas, 
Germany’s foreign minister said the areas targeted were “of particular significance for Belarus and for the regime’s 
income.”
Belarus exported about €4bn of goods to the EU, its second largest trading partner after Russia, last year and 
imported slightly more than €6bn, according to EU data. Its petrochemicals and potash exports are a crucial source 
of hard currency for Lukashenko’s regime, bringing in at least $6.6bn in revenues in 2020.
The financial sanctions will curb the country’s state institution access to EU capital markets, as well as lending by 
the EU’s European Investment Bank to Belarus official ventures, diplomats said. There is a proposed exemption for 
private bank deposits, humanitarian transactions and some local projects. 
The proposed package of EU restrictions also covers the tobacco industry, officials added. It would ban exports of 
surveillance technology to Belarus and further extend an existing arms embargo, including a halt to shipments of 
precision rifles used by biathletes.
EU diplomats insist the package has been composed to maximise damage to the regime and minimise harm to the 
population. But many European officials acknowledge privately that the consequences will only become clear when 
the sanctions are put into practice.
The EU package is in line with sanctions sought by the opposition movement in Belarus. Ministers held a breakfast 
on Monday with  Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, the main opposition candidate to challenge Lukashenko in last year’s 
election.
Tsikhanouskaya showed the ministers a bullet she said had been taken from the lung of a young man shot during 
the protests last August and thanked them for being “united in their position on the situation in Belarus”.
Minsk remains unrepentant under EU pressure. Last week, officials hauled Protasevich from the Belarusian KGB’s 
jail to a press conference where the blogger, clearly under duress, spoke of his “unconditional” respect for 
Lukashenko. 
On Monday, Belarus’ supreme court heard oral arguments in the trial of Viktor Babariko, a Russia-linked banker 
who was arrested on corruption charges after declaring his candidacy against Lukashenko last year. 
Another high-profile opponent, Tsikhanouskaya’s husband Siarhei Tsikhanousky, faces a closed hearing later this 
week along with several other dissidents, including the prominent blogger Ihar Losik.
Tsikhanouskaya said she suspected the regime had decided to hold the hearing behind closed doors to prevent her 
husband and the other participants from rallying Belarusians against Lukashenko.
“[The regime] don’t want people to see that these people are not broken, that they are as strong as they are, and 
they don’t want them to inspire people,” she told the Financial Times last week.
Load-Date: June 21, 2021
End of Document
Lists of top bosses are fine but what about the 50 worst?
Lists of top bosses are fine but what about the 50 worst?
 
FT.com
June 20, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 702 words
Byline: Pilita Clark
Body
Earlier this month, a British chief executive had an email run-in with one of his customers that left the woman 
gobsmacked.
This man is not a famous grouch, like Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary, who  once said the idea the customer was 
always right was “horseshit”.
Nor does he make news like  James Watt, co-founder of the craft beer group, BrewDog, who last week  vowed to 
listen and learn after dozens of ex-staff wrote an  open letter claiming the company was rife with “toxic attitudes” 
and had a “rotten culture”.
His name is James Price and he  runs an outfit he founded called  Everything Genetic, which is one of the Covid 
test providers the UK  government lists for arriving travellers who need to prove they can safely leave quarantine. 
The email dust-up began when a friend of mine who had flown into London from abroad wrote to ask him for a 
refund because the test results she had ordered from his firm had failed to turn up at the expected time.
Mr Price wrote back to say that as far as he could tell, his company had stuck to its advertised turnaround times and 
if he paid a refund there would be no test result.
My friend, fearing this meant she would be trapped at home even longer, protested vigorously. She said she 
needed the result and a refund would encourage customer loyalty, to which Mr Price told her bluntly: “We’d rather 
have return customers that understand what they purchase.”
Lists of top bosses are fine but what about the 50 worst?
He eventually relented when shown what one of his staff had told her about when her results would be ready. 
Conceding she had been given incorrect customer service information, he offered both the refund and her test 
results, but it was too late. 
My friend, a former senior manager, said she found his attitude so belittling she would never use his firm again.
Mr Price told me later he was sorry for any poor service, including his responses to customer complaints, which 
would now be handled by others in the company.
But he came to mind last week when an annual  list of “top CEOs” came out, this time from  Glassdoor, the career 
site where employees can post anonymous reviews of their companies.
The list ranked bosses in the US, UK, Canada, France and Germany over the 12 troubled months up to May this 
year, using an internal rating system that measures the quality, quantity and consistency of reviews. 
Among its more notable findings: Microsoft’s Satya Nadella made it on to every country’s list except France, which 
takes some doing, according to Glassdoor.
Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg failed to make it to the list of top 100 US chief executives for the first time since the 
rankings started in 2013, when he was rated number one, which is also quite a feat.
Other CEOs who made it on to three countries’ lists were  Salesforce’s Marc Benioff;  Morgan Stanley’s James 
Gorman and  Airbus’ Guillaume Faury.
This is all interesting, as were the reasons employees gave for rating these bosses so highly. They didn’t just 
provide decent pay, good benefits and career progression, many also got points for offering flexible or remote 
working.
This is all good to know. Yet the experience of my friend was a reminder that it might also be good to have a 
reliable list of the worst CEOs. Wouldn’t that offer a more useful guide for potential employees, customers and 
investors, especially when it comes to smaller, less scrutinised companies? I know a few people have attempted 
such things over the years, but no one with the heft of Glassdoor. When I asked the site if it had ever considered 
such a list, a spokesman said it had not. “We prefer to look at best practice and those that are doing well.”
He pointed out CEOs get a Glassdoor rating based on cumulative reviews — as opposed to one for the most recent 
year — and these can be instructive.
Ryanair’s O’Leary scores just 43 per cent, well below the site’s average CEO rating of 73 per cent. BrewDog’s Watt 
comes in at just 52 per cent.
That is all very well, but if the site ever comes up with an annual ranking of the worst CEOs, I know I won’t be the 
only one eager to read it.
 pilita.clark@ft.com
Twitter:  @pilitaclark
Letter in response to this column:
 League tables will not create better leaders /  From Paul Berry, Human Performance Science, London SW15, UK
Load-Date: June 28, 2021
Lists of top bosses are fine but what about the 50 worst?
End of Document
EU agrees to step up sanctions on Belarus over forced plane landing
EU agrees to step up sanctions on Belarus over forced plane landing
 
FT.com
June 18, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 544 words
Byline: Michael Peel in Brussels and James Shotter in Warsaw
Body
EU countries have provisionally agreed sanctions on Belarus’s financial, oil and potash sectors in a bid to punish 
President  Alexander Lukashenko’s regime for its  interception of a Ryanair flight to arrest a dissident.
The wide-ranging measures are expected to win formal political agreement from the European bloc’s foreign 
ministers on Monday after a compromise to end Austria’s opposition to some proposed curbs on bank transactions, 
diplomats said.
It marks a significant escalation in the EU’s pressure on Lukashenko’s authoritarian government, reflecting outrage 
over the forced landing and detention of  Roman Protasevich and his partner Sofia Sapega last month. The 
sanctions will test both the durability of Lukashenko’s 27-year rule and the EU’s ability to push for political change 
while minimising harm to Belarusians. 
The package still needs to be legally finalised and details of precise measures remain confidential until publication. 
Its aim, diplomats said, is to target state companies and other big sources of revenue for the regime.
Belarus is one of the world’s biggest exporters of potash, a crucial ingredient in fertilisers, and also generates 
significant revenues from refining oil. Belaruskali, the state-controlled group that accounts for about 20 per cent of 
the global potash market, sold $2.4bn abroad last year, while state oil group Belneftekhim made $4.2bn from export 
revenues from January to the end of November. 
EU agrees to step up sanctions on Belarus over forced plane landing
The financial sanctions will target activities including securities trading, money market instruments and export 
credits, diplomats said. There is a proposed carve-out for private bank deposits, humanitarian transactions and 
some local projects. 
Austria’s initial opposition to the planned finance measures had angered some fellow member states, especially 
given the large role of Austrian banks in international financial transactions involving Belarus.
But Vienna insisted that it just wanted to craft the package to cause as little damage as possible to the Belarusian 
people — and to avoid pushing Minsk deeper into the Kremlin’s orbit.
“It is of high importance for Austria that financial sanctions do not target the population of Belarus,” the foreign 
ministry said in a statement before the compromise was agreed. “It is in our common interest that Belarus is not 
pushed even further into the sphere of influence of Russia.”
The proposed EU package also includes the tobacco industry and closes what one diplomat described as “last 
loopholes” in an existing arms embargo, including a halt to the export of precision rifles used by biathletes. 
The measures have some overlaps with proposals set out by the  Belarusian opposition last month.
Speaking earlier on Friday, Belarus’s exiled opposition leader, Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, said sanctions needed to 
be strong enough to “send a message” that the EU would continue to put pressure on Lukashenko’s regime until “all 
political prisoners have been freed”.
“A joint position [from the EU] is of great importance now. The regime is not just trying to create divisions in Belarus, 
it is also trying to divide European society and leaders as well,” she told the Financial Times. 
“The EU cannot allow itself to be divided. The regime is trying to see how far they can go.”
Load-Date: June 18, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair to sue UK government over border policy
Ryanair to sue UK government over border policy
 
FT.com
June 16, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 556 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Ryanair and the owner of three major airports are preparing to sue the government over the UK’s border policy.
The low-cost airline and Manchester Airports Group say they will lodge High Court papers on Thursday to seek a 
judicial review over the transparency of the traffic-light system for international travel.
The current framework allows only passengers returning from fewer than a dozen countries to avoid quarantine, 
and was recently tightened to  remove Portugal, the only main tourist hub.
The court papers will argue that the government should clearly explain how it makes decisions when categorising 
countries, given the “dramatic” impact these decisions have on the aviation industry. MAG owns Manchester, 
London Stansted and East Midlands airports.
“The current opaque way that decisions are being made is undermining consumer confidence in the traffic-light 
system and makes it impossible for airports, airlines and other travel companies to plan for the recovery of 
international travel or work with the government on future reviews,” the two companies said.
The aviation industry broadly welcomed the traffic-light system but was disappointed that only a small number of 
countries were put on the “green list” last month.
That disappointment turned to anger when Portugal was taken off the list this month, leaving holidaymakers’ plans 
in chaos and airlines ripping up their schedules. Passengers returning from countries on the green list do not have 
to quarantine when they arrive back in the UK.
Ryanair to sue UK government over border policy
The travel industry also questioned why several countries and territories with low infection rates were not added to 
the green list.
Ministers have argued that they are taking a cautious approach that prioritises unwinding domestic restrictions in 
the UK. They have said that the decision to remove Portugal from the green list was made amid worries over the 
spread of Covid-19 variants.
The Department for Transport did not comment on the legal proceedings but said it was trying to “balance the timely 
reopening of international travel while safeguarding public health and protecting the vaccine rollout”.
It added: “Our traffic-light system cautiously manages the risk of new variants, and we have provided £7bn to help 
support the industry during the pandemic.”
But Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary said the traffic-light system was a “shambles” that was “causing untold damage 
to the aviation industry and frustrating and upsetting millions of British families”.
While UK holidaymakers are advised by the government to stay at home, airlines have reported stronger demand 
from continental Europe, where travel restrictions are  set to loosen within the EU from July 1 with the introduction 
of digital health passes. 
Charlie Cornish, chief executive of MAG, said recent developments suggested that the UK government was “now 
unwilling to open up international travel by putting low-risk countries on the green list”.
“The government is not being open and we simply cannot understand how it is making decisions that are 
fundamental to our ability to plan and to giving customers the confidence to book travel ahead,” he said.
The legal challenge, first reported by The Telegraph, is not the first Ryanair has launched during the crisis. The 
carrier has also used the EU courts to challenge state-aid handed out to national flag-carriers.
Load-Date: June 17, 2021
End of Document
Belarus ‘weaponising’ illegal migration, Lithuania says
Belarus ‘weaponising’ illegal migration, Lithuania says
 
FT.com
June 15, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 550 words
Byline: Richard Milne in Oslo and James Shotter in Warsaw
Body
Belarus is “weaponising” migration by sending illegal immigrants from Iraq and Syria across the border to Lithuania, 
according to the Baltic country’s foreign minister.
Gabrielius Landsbergis told the Financial Times that Belarus was engaged in a “hybrid attack against Europe” by 
enticing the migrants with package deals from a state-owned tourist agency that included flights from Baghdad or 
Istanbul, as well as travel to the Lithuanian border.
So far this year, Lithuania has detained almost double the migrants who crossed the frontier from Belarus than the 
combined total for the three previous years.
“This is weaponised migration that is directly aimed at Lithuania. The reason? It’s quite easy to guess. We are 
outspoken, we shelter the main opposition leaders [from Belarus],” Landsbergis said on Monday.
Lithuania has been on  high alert since Belarus last month forced the landing of a Ryanair plane from Athens to 
Vilnius and then seized prominent dissident Roman Protasevich, who had been living in exile in the Baltic country.
Belarusian president  Alexander Lukashenko threatened last month that his country could relax some controls on its 
borders, as tensions with the west mounted. “We stopped drugs and migrants — now you will eat and catch them 
yourselves,” he warned during an address in the Belarusian parliament.
Landsbergis said that Tsentrkurort, a Belarusian state-owned tourist agency, was using Boeing 777 planes to bring 
in migrants and claimed there were currently 1,000 Iraqis and Syrians in Minsk. 
Belarus ‘weaponising’ illegal migration, Lithuania says
Lithuania has stopped 387 migrants at the Belarusian border up until June 14, up from 74 last year. “This is the 
direction it might be going — to test the country, to test Europe,” he added. 
Belarus’s foreign ministry did not respond to requests for comment; nor did Tsentrkurort.
Franak Viacorka, an adviser to Belarusian opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, who is also in Lithuania, 
said the approach taken by Lukashenko was unsurprising.
“Lukashenko’s job right now is to take revenge,” he told the FT. “But he has such limited opportunities to take 
revenge, that he is trying to create some problems on the border because that is the only leverage he has.”
Landsbergis called Lithuania “the country of freedom fighters” and said it would soon need help from the rest of 
Europe to deal with the migrants. Vilnius is already in discussions with Turkey, a fellow member of Nato, about 
stepping up border and identity checks.
He added that, after the “hijacking” of the Ryanair plane, Lithuania was not ruling out any action from Belarus, 
including the targeting of Belarusian dissidents inside the Baltic country. 
“Now we are in a position where we have to consider everything. [Lukashenko] crossed a red line a long time ago. 
We have to be really vigilant,” Landsbergis said. But he added that Lithuania would not change its outspoken policy 
against the Lukashenko regime.
There had been previous allegations of countries “  weaponising” migration, such as in 2015-16 when thousands of 
migrants — mostly from Syria — crossed the Arctic Circle borders from Russia and travelled on to Norway or 
Finland by  bicycle or in decrepit cars.
“They’ve been testing the means, and they’ve been testing the methods, and now they’re weaponising it,” 
Lithuania’s foreign minister said.
Load-Date: June 15, 2021
End of Document
The plutocrats’ guide to space tourism
The plutocrats’ guide to space tourism
 
FT.com
June 10, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 689 words
Byline: Robert Shrimsley
Body
Houston, we need a mortgage. Space tourism is back on track after some early snags (crashes). Richard Branson’s 
Virgin Galactic and Elon Musk’s SpaceX are planning more launches, and Jeff Bezos has just announced he will be 
heading skyward next month on his Blue Origin programme’s New Shepard rocket. The Amazon founder is due to 
go up on July 20 — or tomorrow if he subscribes to Prime. The heavens may soon be rich with plutocrats.
The opening of the space market could not be more timely because, frankly, it’s getting very hard to plan a holiday 
at the moment, and sub-orbital flight looks likely to be on the green list. Of course, it is expensive. A ride on Virgin 
Galactic is expected to cost about $200,000-$250,000 a flight. And that’s without the cost of the PCR tests you 
have to take after you land.
Two-hundred grand is very much at the Ryanair end of the market, although you may not have to pay extra to get 
an allocated seat. The top bid for a seat with Bezos on New Shepard is about $2.8m. Presumably, the in-flight food 
is a lot better and the airport lounge has complimentary peanuts. Last year, SpaceX teamed up with another 
company to offer a several‑day stay on a space station for the bargain price of $55m. Quite a lot considering it is 
only a three-star space station and doesn’t even have a pool.
On the Covid-19 point, space tourism also offers some protection against the kind of sudden travel restrictions that 
sent thousands of holidaymakers into a panic after Portugal’s unexpected switch from green to amber status. Given 
that most space jaunts won’t last more than a couple of hours, there is little chance of being reclassified while out of 
orbit, even if there are fears about a Neptune variant. In fact, the time you spend in zero gravity on one of these 
flights lasts a matter of minutes, which is surely not long enough even for Matt Hancock to ruin your holiday.
The plutocrats’ guide to space tourism
Perhaps this is the future of tourism. Yes, we’ve booked five hours in the Algarve this summer. How about you? Oh, 
a morning in Dubrovnik, how lovely.
Once we expected to be famous for 15 minutes. Now, we may dream of being somewhere else for half an hour. 
Apparently, the space trips throw in a couple of days’ “training”, which presumably involves swanking around an air 
base in a flying suit with the word “astronaut” sewn on to the pocket and feasting on freeze‑dried breakfasts.
The eagle-eyed will have spotted that space tourism may be some way from the mass market, though. There is 
also some argument as to whether suborbital flights really count as “space” trips. But don’t worry, at 90km up you 
can definitely see the curvature of your spine. Officially, it’s space if you cross the Kármán line and spend at least 
10 minutes in the duty-free store at the end of the atmosphere. (At current prices, that’s likely to offer some quality 
merch: watches engraved with “Mum and Dad crossed the Kármán line, and all I got was this lousy Patek 
Philippe.”)
Personally, I’m quite happy for space tourism to remain a rich person’s sport. Brits in Magaluf are bad enough. Do 
we really want them in space, banging on the rocket door and singing “Two world wars and one World Cup” to all 
the passing meteors? Also, at that price, the last thing you want is to get into orbit and find other people have put 
their towels on all the loungers.
There are concerns about the environmental impact — although Branson insists the emissions are now no worse 
than a return flight from Singapore and, obviously, less frequent. Perhaps that’s a small price to pay to give wealthy 
celebs the chance to tell us about the deeper feeling they gained for the planet after the ride.
While space tourism may struggle to go mass market, it might be possible to secure a simulator ride complete with 
a selfie in front of a photo of Earth from space for your social media feeds, which is obviously the primary purpose 
of the trip anyway. Many say that you see the earth differently once you’ve posted it on Instagram.
Follow Robert on Twitter  @robertshrimsley and email him at  robert.shrimsley@ft.com
Follow  @FTMag on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first. 
Load-Date: June 18, 2021
End of Document
Lithuania urges muscular EU security policy in face of Belarus threat
Lithuania urges muscular EU security policy in face of Belarus threat
 
FT.com
June 10, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1943 words
Byline: Valentina Pop, Europe Express editor
Body
Good morning and welcome to Europe Express. It is Thursday, so in keeping with tradition, we bring you the profile 
of a politician worth watching. This week, it is Ingrida Simonyte, Lithuania’s prime minister, who is seeking to lead 
the way among EU leaders on Belarus sanctions and calling for a tough stance on Russia and China.
Today is also the moment for the European Central Bank’s governing council to come together (complete with a 
Christine Lagarde press conference later on). We will explore the odds of the bank slowing its bond purchasing 
programme — or at least indicating that they will do so further down the road.
We will also get an update on what the EU’s inquiry into voice assistants — “Siri, meet Alexa” — has yielded so 
far and what it may mean for future antitrust probes and regulation.
Hawk-in-chief
When a Ryanair flight  diverted to Belarus finally reached its intended destination of Vilnius last month, one of the 
first people to greet the remaining passengers was Lithuania’s prime minister, Ingrida Simonyte, who came on 
board to address them. 
It was a very public gesture of solidarity. But it was characteristic of a politician who has taken a notably hawkish 
and outspoken approach both to EU security and the need to stand up for democracy in the region, writes Sam 
Fleming in Brussels.
Simonyte’s centre-right government assumed office late last year in the middle of the Covid-19 crisis, which was 
hitting the country hard. The self-declared Metallica fan had made an unsuccessful bid for the presidency the 
Lithuania urges muscular EU security policy in face of Belarus threat
previous year, losing out to Gitanas Nauseda. She cut her teeth in politics as finance minister a decade earlier 
during the debt crisis, when she was forced to impose harsh reforms to shore up the embattled economy. 
Today, Simonyte’s biggest concern alongside the pandemic is the  chaos across the border in Belarus, a country 
whose history is closely interlinked with that of Lithuania. On a trip to Brussels last week, she flagged concerns 
about rising irregular migration across the border while dismissing any notion that the EU should tread softly for fear 
of doing excessive damage to the country via economic sanctions. 
“The situation is already very bad for people in Belarus,” she told the Financial Times. “Anyone in Belarus is actually 
in danger now.” 
Lithuania has willingly placed itself at the forefront of the EU’s political response to the regime of Alexander 
Lukashenko, drawing in dissidents such as Belarus opposition leader  Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya as well as  Roman 
Protasevich, the journalist-activist who was arrested in Minsk. 
Vilnius has been outspoken in other, equally febrile areas of foreign policy. Lithuania was the first country to publicly 
withdraw from the  17+1 group of central and eastern European countries that was set up to engage China. It has 
been vocal about the risks of cosying up to Moscow and joined the other Baltic states in April in  expelling several 
Russian diplomats in solidarity with the Czech Republic. 
Simonyte was blunt about the decision over the 17+1, saying her country saw little benefit from its membership. 
The group did not wield anything akin to the kind of clout the EU possesses when it faces Beijing, she argued. 
“It would be better to voice your concerns via Brussels,” she said. 
Ahead of Joe Biden’s arrival in Europe for G7, Nato and EU-US summits, she extended her calls for unity to 
broader transatlantic relations, predicting greater harmony over policies towards Russia and China than under 
Donald Trump. 
“For my country, it is of the utmost importance that there are very limited or no situations where we have to judge 
whose arguments are better — the European Union’s or [those of] the United States,” she said.  
Edward Lucas of the Center for European Policy Analysis, a think-tank, praised the clear direction Lithuania had 
sought to provide on subjects such as Belarus, where it was offering the population the idea that “there is another 
future”. 
But the fact remains that the EU has notoriously failed to muster the kind of muscular and unified foreign policy 
stances that smaller member state capitals such as Vilnius so urgently seek. The bloc’s policies towards both China 
and Russia have been hamstrung by internal divisions. 
Lithuania also remains particularly vulnerable to a situation across the border in Belarus for which there is no easy 
resolution. If sanctions on Belarus bite too deep, the country could sink into an even deeper mire under 
Lukashenko’s remorseless grip — or be driven further into the arms of Vladimir Putin. 
Chart du jour: Europe’s spying cities
It is not just repressive regimes or low-income countries that buy China’s surveillance technology. According to data 
seen by the FT, several of Europe’s liberal democracies including Germany, Spain, the Netherlands and the UK 
have imported “smart city” and “safe city” equipment sold by companies such as Huawei, ZTE Corporation and 
Alibaba. ( Read the full story here) 
Bond-buying plans
Can a central bank achieve a “dovish taper” of its asset purchases? We may find out today when Christine Lagarde 
presents the results of the European Central Bank’s latest monetary policy decision, writes Martin Arnold in 
Frankfurt. 
Lithuania urges muscular EU security policy in face of Belarus threat
A dovish taper means indicating plans to slow the pace of bond-buying while committing to maintaining its ultra-
loose monetary policy. BNP Paribas and Capital Economics are among those predicting the ECB will attempt what 
sounds very much like an oxymoron. 
Analysts at Pictet Wealth Management forecast the ECB will “strike a compromise between the hawks and the 
doves by maintaining a ‘higher’ pace of bond purchases in the third quarter but hinting at a modest slowdown from 
the second quarter”.
Goldman Sachs analysts said the central bank was likely to cite the seasonal slowdown in bond markets over the 
summer for an expected dip in monthly net bond purchases from €80bn in the second quarter to €75bn in the third 
quarter.
Having  twice expanded the size of its pandemic emergency purchase programme last year, the ECB has just over 
€700bn of the overall €1.85tn left to spend under its flagship crisis-fighting policy, which is due to last until at least 
March 2022.
Given the brightening outlook for the eurozone, which is expected to be reflected in higher growth and inflation 
forecasts by the ECB today, some of the more conservative “hawks” on its governing council have called for a 
slowdown in bond buying. 
But when this triggered a sell-off in bond markets a month ago, a string of council members  pushed back against 
this idea, soothing investors’ nerves and bringing borrowing costs back down for eurozone governments.
Some analysts still believe the ECB will dismiss any suggestion it is talking about tapering. “Even a slight reduction 
of the pace of purchases could be interpreted by the market as tapering and jeopardise the result of the recent 
more dovish communication,” said Silvia Ardagna at Barclays.
Whatever the outcome of today’s meeting, most ECB watchers are confident that Lagarde will  brush off concerns 
about inflation rising above its target in May and offer reassurances that strong monetary stimulus will continue until 
the economy has fully recovered from the impact of the pandemic.
That means, at least for now, that the ECB is aligned with the Federal Reserve. It will get harder for the ECB once 
the Fed starts a genuine tapering of its bond purchases — expected early next year — which is likely to send bond 
yields higher on both sides of the Atlantic. 
Investors will watch for clues of whether the ECB will expand its traditional asset purchase programme — currently 
running at €20bn a month — to at least partially replace the PEPP when it runs out next spring. “If the ECB stops 
PEPP and doesn’t replace it with anything, that will create a cliff-edge effect and push up interest rates further,” said 
Ardagna.
Alexa, are you anti-competitive?
Regulators in Brussels are looking into whether voice assistant technologies such as Apple’s Siri and Amazon’s 
Alexa are undermining competitors, writes Javier Espinoza in Brussels.
After almost a year investigating alleged anti-competitive aspects of the Internet of Things, the European 
Commission said yesterday that more than 200 companies had raised concerns about the market and its rapid 
growth. 
Here are the main issues identified in regards to the voice-activated services of Apple, Amazon and Google:
•
Companies are worried about makers of one voice assistant preventing others from installing an alternative 
on a device, which would undermine consumer choice.
•
They are also concerned about voice assistant providers promoting their own services, which would also 
undermine rivals.
Lithuania urges muscular EU security policy in face of Belarus threat
•
Others see potential issues in the large amount of data that voice assistants collect and the huge 
advantage this could give them in relation to competitors.
•
Companies worry that the absence of common standards has led to a lack of interoperability between 
services.
Margrethe Vestager, the EU’s executive vice-president in charge of competition and digital policy, said the inquiry 
could lead to antitrust investigations (and left little doubt as to which companies would be targeted).
“In the EU, Google Assistant, Amazon’s Alexa and Apple’s Siri are the leading voice assistants,” she said. “In 
addition, Google, Amazon and Apple provide the main operating systems for smart home and wearable devices, 
they offer digital services and they manufacture smart devices.”
Within this position of power, the three companies could determine how different devices and services 
communicate and interoperate, she said.
Mission creep is another concern, according to Vestager: “Voice assistants learn a lot about their users. Smart 
devices and Internet of Things services generate a huge amount of data about what we do in our homes.”
Amazon disputed the commission’s claims and said it was working with other companies to give customers the 
choice to access multiple voice services on a single device.
The preliminary report will be subject to public consultation until September 1, and the final report is expected in the 
first half of next year. Beyond investigations, the inquiry could also lead to changes to existing regulations or new 
legislative proposals — the way the previous sector inquiry into ecommerce led to rules on geoblocking.
Two things to watch today 
•
UK prime minister Boris Johnson meets US president Joe Biden ahead of the G7 summit
•
EU environment ministers gather in Luxembourg
Notable, Quotable 
•
The European Commission has launched  unprecedented legal action against Germany, saying a verdict 
by the country’s constitutional court on the legality of the European Central Bank’s bond purchase scheme 
undermined “  fundamental principles of EU law”. 
•
EU Brexit commissioner Maros Sefcovic has warned that patience with the UK is “  wearing very, very thin” 
after the two sides failed to resolve differences over the Northern Ireland protocol. 
•
The pandemic has barely affected  Europe’s illegal drug market, with traffickers quickly adapting shipping 
routes, moving commerce online and relying less on human couriers, according to the EU drugs agency. (  
Read the full report here)
•
Poland and Hungary have refused to back a plan to introduce a  global minimum corporate tax agreed by 
G7 finance ministers as long as there is no carve-out to protect substantive business activities in their 
countries.
FT Event: Future of News 
Join us today to hear from leading editors, executives and innovators on both sides of the Atlantic about how the 
top brands are future-proofing their businesses, funding the newsroom and reaching new audiences.
Register  here.
Load-Date: June 14, 2021
Lithuania urges muscular EU security policy in face of Belarus threat
End of Document
Competition regulator probes Ryanair and BA over refund refusals
Competition regulator probes Ryanair and BA over refund refusals
 
FT.com
June 9, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 437 words
Byline: Kate Beioley and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
The UK competition regulator has launched enforcement cases into Ryanair and British Airways after the airlines 
refused to offer customers refunds for flights they were unable to take during the pandemic. 
The announcement on Wednesday by the Competition and Markets Authority brought a furious response from BA, 
which said the investigation was “incredible” and any punishment could put jobs at risk.
The CMA said it was investigating whether BA and Ryanair had broken consumer protection law* and had written to 
both companies detailing its concerns. The regulator opened the probe in December. 
During the pandemic, when customers were unable to fly because of lockdowns in the UK, BA offered customers 
vouchers or the chance to rebook their flights and Ryanair only provided the option to rebook. 
Andrea Coscelli, chief executive of the CMA, said: “While we understand that airlines have had a tough time during 
the pandemic, people should not be left unfairly out of pocket for following the law.  
“Customers booked these flights in good faith and were legally unable to take them due to circumstances entirely 
outside of their control. We believe these people should have been offered their money back.”
The investigation is a new headache for BA and Ryanair as the airline industry faces the growing prospect of a 
second lost summer of travel. 
Competition regulator probes Ryanair and BA over refund refusals
BA, which has offered more than 3m refunds to customers during the crisis, said: “It is incredible that the 
government is seeking to punish further an industry that is on its knees.” 
“Any action taken against our industry will only serve to destabilise it, with potential consequences for jobs, 
business, connectivity and the UK economy,” the airline said.
Ryanair said it welcomed the review and had paid customers whose flights operated during periods of lockdown “in 
justified cases”. Since June, all customers have been able to rebook flights without paying a fee, the carrier said. 
Airlines were faced with a huge backlog of refunds that built up when nearly all their planes were grounded during 
the first wave of Covid-19 last spring. More than £3bn has since been repaid to customers, according to the Civil 
Aviation Authority, stretching the industry’s finances as the crisis drags into its second year. 
But airlines have also been under growing scrutiny for their policies when they continued to operate flights during 
lockdowns in the UK, when non-essential travel was banned. Airlines argue that many passengers still needed to fly 
because of work, and many did not offer refunds.  
*This article has been updated to remove an incorrect reference to competition law
Load-Date: June 14, 2021
End of Document
Talks on loosening restrictions offer glimmer of hope for travel industry
Talks on loosening restrictions offer glimmer of hope for travel industry
 
FT.com
June 9, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1136 words
Byline: Darren Dodd
Body
This article is an on-site version of our Coronavirus Business Update newsletter. Please share this with friends and 
colleagues who might find it valuable and let them know that, even if they are not subscribers to the Financial 
Times, they can read the newsletter — and all of the FT — free for 30 days. Welcome and  please sign up here.
Get the latest worldwide picture with our  vaccine tracker
Latest news
•
More than 100,000  fake online pharmacies profiting from Covid-related business have been shut down by 
Interpol (BBC)
•
Germany’s finance minister Olaf Scholz played down a  surge in inflation in May as a ‘temporary 
phenomenon’
•
Campbell’s Soup has become the latest US company to warn of shortages and price pressure because of 
pandemic-related supply chain problems
For up-to-the-minute coronavirus updates, visit our  live blog
News that the US is ready to discuss  relaxing restrictions on international travel cannot come too soon for a global 
industry hammered by the pandemic.
First steps from the White House involve setting up working groups to examine how to restart travel from the UK, 
EU, Mexico and Canada. The subject is also on the agenda at this weekend’s  G7 summit in Cornwall. 
Talks on loosening restrictions offer glimmer of hope for travel industry
The move follows yesterday’s rare joint plea from US and UK airline chiefs to  reopen transatlantic routes — one of 
the most profitable parts of the air travel market, normally worth $9bn to British and American carriers. They argue 
that high vaccination rates in the two countries mean it is now safe to open an air corridor between them.
Airlines are also feeling the heat from regulators. The UK’s Competition and Markets Authority today launched 
enforcement cases against Ryanair and British Airways for their  refusal to offer customer refunds for flights that 
were cancelled during lockdowns. 
Airlines are far from the only sector hit by flight restrictions.  Airport retail outlets have been badly affected, while UK  
travel agents are losing their homes and facing “absolute hardship and desperation”, according to trade body Abta. 
The sector’s problems worsened last week when the government  cut the number of countries on its “green” safe 
travel list. The “traffic light” system for classifying risk is due to be updated in three weeks.
One group, however, has had remarkable success in navigating around international flight curbs:  drug traffickers. 
The business has remained “remarkably resilient” by swapping human couriers for shipping containers.
Global economy
Global worries about a new era of inflation were fuelled today by a 9 per cent  surge in Chinese producer prices, 
the fastest monthly rise in 13 years. Export prices could also increase after an outbreak of Covid-19 at a  container 
port in Shenzhen disrupted trade. Read our series:  Inflation — a new era?
Brussels launched formal procedures against Germany’s constitutional court in a row over the European Central 
Bank’s quantitative easing programme. The EU fears the German court’s challenge to the ECB’s mandate could 
lead to other member states  questioning the bank’s supremacy. 
The World Bank said moves to  help poorer countries with debt relief and vaccination must be stepped up lest they 
become overwhelmed by rising prices and interest rates and are sunk by increasing levels of pandemic-related 
debt. The bank estimates that about 100m people will have fallen back into extreme poverty by the end of the year 
since the pandemic began. 
Business
An outbreak of coronavirus in Taiwan has reached semiconductor companies, threatening to  exacerbate the 
global chip shortage. As Greater China correspondent Kathrin Hille reported last week, the country is experiencing 
its  first virus crisis after successfully containing initial outbreaks. 
First-quarter sales at Inditex, the world’s biggest clothing retailer and best known for its Zara chain,  rose 50 per 
cent compared with last year as its online shift accelerated. The company has benefited from offering fresh product 
lines reflecting new hybrid going out/casual styles.
San Francisco correspondent Dave Lee looks at the supercharged  rise of robot checkouts during the pandemic. 
Losing jobs to automation is nothing new, he writes, but what distinguishes this revolution from others is its sheer 
speed: McKinsey estimates 17m US workers will have to transition to new jobs by 2030. Read our series:  Future of 
retail. 
Markets
Global equities remained close to all-time highs and government bonds rallied before  tomorrow’s crucial US 
inflation reading and ahead of next week’s Federal Reserve meeting. “Markets are very much in wait-and-see 
mode,” said one strategist, “but the reaction to Thursday’s inflation figures may be driven not so much by the data 
itself but by what the Fed signals it will do about it”.
A successful protest campaign means the  140-year-old tradition of open-outcry trading at the London Metal 
Exchange will return after fears the pandemic had dealt it a mortal blow. The origins of the LME’s Ring trading floor 
Talks on loosening restrictions offer glimmer of hope for travel industry
began with 19th-century merchants drawing a circle on the sawdust floor of a City of London coffee house as a 
signal to begin trading. The current version dates back to 1877.
The EU is getting ready to  dive into the bond markets to fund the first part of its €800bn NextGenerationEU 
recovery fund, its landmark pandemic response. The deal, to be priced next week, is the first step in the bloc’s 
transformation into one of Europe’s biggest debt issuers. 
The essentials
The rise of the Delta variant of coronavirus could yet scupper plans for the UK economy’s planned reopening on 
June 21. Read our  explainer on the dangers of the now-dominant strain in England and the effectiveness of 
vaccines in combating it.
Have your say
AdamC comments on  Why robot checkouts are on the rise in the age of Covid:
We have been improving our living standards by replacing human labour since we yoked oxen to till the fields. I 
have never seen any evidence that this process decreases jobs overall in the economy. Yes, it creates 
disruption in the short term, but our species seems to manage.Indeed, the effect on jobs of new technologies 
can be complicated, something noted in the article only partially. Take the supermarket example. Self 
checkouts have been around for a decade, but has supermarket employment really decreased materially? Or 
are staff members just doing different, more value-added tasks?
FT event
The Future of News conference returns tomorrow, June 10. Hear from leading editors, executives and innovators 
from both sides of the Atlantic on how top brands are future-proofing their businesses, funding the newsroom, and 
reaching new audiences.  Register now.
Final thought
From marijuana moisturiser to the cultivation of heirloom artisanal strands,  cannabis use is on a new high. Browse 
How to Spend It magazine’s new themed collection.
Load-Date: June 14, 2021
End of Document
US technology stocks lead Wall Street lower
US technology stocks lead Wall Street lower
 
FT.com
June 3, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 657 words
Byline: Colby Smith in New York and Siddharth Venkataramakrishnan in London
Body
US stocks came under pressure on Thursday, as investors digested a new investment ban from the Biden 
administration, fresh economic data pointing to a strengthening labour market and the prospects the Federal 
Reserve may begin considering scaling back its policy support as inflationary pressures build.
The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite led the day in terms of losses, closing lower by 1 per cent. The blue-chip 
S&P 500, meanwhile, dropped 0.4 per cent.
Big tech stocks including Facebook and Apple fell roughly 1 per cent by the end of trading in New York, while 
Google parent company Alphabet slid 0.7 per cent. Such growth stocks, which do not pay generous dividends and 
rely instead on rising valuations, appear less attractive to investors as prices climb.
The weakness on Wall Street came as global food prices  surged by the biggest margin in a decade in May, 
according to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization’s monthly food price index. Data out on Thursday also 
showed  initial jobless claims fell to a cycle low last week in the US, indicating the labour market continues to mend.
Investors were also forced to grapple with an  announcement from the Biden administration that it is banning US 
entities from investing in dozens of Chinese defence and surveillance technology companies.
“The wall of worry is just continuing to grow,” said Garrett Melson, a portfolio strategist at Natixis Investment 
Managers.
US technology stocks lead Wall Street lower
Across the Atlantic, the region-wide Stoxx Europe 600 benchmark closed down 0.1 per cent, ending two days of 
back-to-back record highs. The CAC 40 in Paris fell 0.2 per cent while Frankfurt’s Xetra Dax rose 0.2 per cent to 
close the session at another all-time high. 
London’s FTSE 100 dipped 0.6 per cent, led by National Grid, BT and Kingfisher. Both National Grid and Kingfisher 
were trading ex-dividend, meaning investors who purchase the shares today were not entitled to the next round of 
shareholder payouts. 
Airline stocks also fell as the UK announced that Portugal was no longer on its quarantine-free travel “green list”. 
Both International Airlines Group and easyJet sank more than 5 per cent, while Ryanair fell 4.5 per cent.
Investors were also attuned to recent commentary from Fed officials about their views on monetary policy. Some 
policymakers at the central bank have recently endorsed beginning discussions about eventually winding down the 
$120bn monthly asset purchase programme. Friday’s monthly US employment report may provide insight into the 
timeline, market participants said.
“At the moment we’ve got emergency fiscal policies in place as the medical emergency is passing,” said Roger Lee, 
head of UK equity strategy at Investec. “I think what the market is grappling with is how the Federal Reserve will 
deal with that.”
On Tuesday James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis, said the US jobs market was  
tighter than it looked. The stronger labour market, coupled with rising signs of inflation, could mean the central bank 
will ultimately need to accelerate the timeframe for slowly pulling back on its bond-buying programme, investors 
have said. 
Lee added he would pay close attention to the wage growth data on Friday to see whether this current bout of 
inflation was structural or not. “If you start to see that creeping up, then it becomes more difficult to argue that 
inflation is transitory,” he said. 
US president Joe Biden  said last week that rising wages “aren’t a bug, they are a feature”, addressing corporate 
America during a visit to Cleveland, Ohio.
Thursday’s initial jobless claims data was also encouraging, said Scott Ruesterholz, a portfolio manager at Insight 
Investment. “While we do not see action as imminent, we expect the economy to improve enough for the Fed to 
announce a taper before year-end,” he added. 
In currencies, the US dollar climbed 0.6 per cent against a basket of peers, taking the greenback close to its 
strongest level since mid-May.
Load-Date: June 3, 2021
End of Document
Belarus incident threatens aviation’s culture of safety
Belarus incident threatens aviation’s culture of safety
 
FT.com
June 2, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 751 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger
Body
The diversion of Ryanair flight 4978 by Belarusian air traffic control on the apparently spurious grounds of a bomb 
threat last month prompted an  unusually rapid response from the international community. 
Airlines have been advised not to fly over Belarus, the national carrier has been banned from EU airspace and 
sanctions on the Belarusian elite are being drawn up.
Belarus is widely believed to have fabricated a bomb threat in order to arrest a political dissident. This may not be 
the first time that a state has forced the landing of a jet for political purposes. But it is first time that many in the 
industry can recall civil air traffic control being weaponised — used by a state to pass a false message to a 
commercial airliner to force it to land.
Now that the way has been shown, others may follow. So what can be done? 
It might be assumed that Belarus has broken international aviation law. But, in fact, the first article of the  
Convention on International Civil Aviation, which sets the global framework for safe and effective civil flight, states 
that: “every State has complete and exclusive sovereignty over the airspace above its territory”. That opening 
clause is the sine qua non that enables an international system of civil aviation to exist. 
Yet it is also the greatest weakness in ensuring the integrity of global aviation, as the incident with Ryanair showed. 
“If the state decides there is good cause to ask an aircraft to land, it can do so with impunity,” says Jim Bell, co-
head of aviation at law firm Watson Farley & Williams.
Belarus incident threatens aviation’s culture of safety
Belarus’s actions clearly contradict the spirit of the convention, and the precedent could have serious repercussions 
for the aviation industry. These go well beyond the need to avoid flying over Belarus, which will add cost in terms of 
fuel and emissions. 
Pilots have to be able to trust what they are being told by controllers. If they have to second-guess the motives 
behind what they are being asked to do — and, in particular, in a stressful situation such as a bomb threat — this 
will only add to already complex procedures and will jeopardise safety. 
“This unprecedented act of unlawful interference will potentially upend all the assumptions about the safest 
response to bomb threats on flights and interceptions,” said the International Federation of Air Line Pilots’ 
Associations. 
The difficulty is that there is no obvious remedy to the problem. The ideal solution would be to create an 
independently managed international system for air navigation service provision. 
That might not have stopped Belarus from falsifying a bomb threat and passing it on to flight 4978. But normal 
procedure in the event of a bomb threat is to land at the nearest airport. An independent air navigation service 
provider would have directed the aircraft to Vilnius, just 72km away when the pilot made his decision to land, 
instead of Minsk, 183km distant. At the very least, the young dissident and his partner would still be free. 
Yet after decades of trying, the EU struggles to get member states to implement measures that fall short of that 
independent ideal. The  Single European Sky initiative was launched about two decades ago to reduce 
fragmentation of European airspace and to improve the performance of air traffic management. A few weeks ago, 
Willie Walsh, head of the aviation industry trade body, Iata,  warned that the initiative was on the brink of collapse 
due to “the intransigence and selfishness of key EU states and their air navigation service providers”.  
Most countries are not willing to cede their sovereign right to manage their own airspace, even with substantial 
caveats to ensure the military’s freedom of action in cases of threat or conflict.
The EU acted with alacrity in cracking down on Belarus’s actions. But flight restrictions and possible sanctions may 
not be enough to stop others from following suit. It would be far better if the system itself were designed to make 
such actions more difficult. 
Brussels has been developing an EU-wide  external aviation policy, replacing member states’ bilateral agreements 
with other countries. These EU agreements deal with safety, security and competition. Perhaps they could also be 
used as leverage in an attempt to start reforming the way air navigation services are operated globally. 
But first the EU will have to get its own hangar in order. As long as member states procrastinate over the Single 
European Sky, it will be difficult to argue that others should go even further.
Load-Date: June 3, 2021
End of Document
Wizz Air warns of full-year losses as pandemic bites
Wizz Air warns of full-year losses as pandemic bites
 
FT.com
June 2, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 661 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Sylvia Pfeifer
Body
Wizz Air has warned it expects to lose money over the next year unless travel restrictions disappear rapidly in a 
sign of the threat to the aviation industry from the lingering effects of the pandemic. 
The low-cost carrier on Wednesday said restrictions had stayed in place “longer than anticipated”. It expects to fly 
30 per cent of its normal schedule between April and June. 
Unless there is “an accelerated and permanent lifting of restrictions”, Wizz forecasts a net loss for the 12 months to 
the end of March next year. After that, chief executive Jozsef Varadi expects to return to profit and operate a full 
schedule.
“We are cautiously optimistic about the recovery of the business, which has started later than what we would have 
liked,” he said.
“The outcome [of this financial year] could be in a wide range depending on restrictions,” and it could even end up 
“a great” year if flying restarts quickly, he added.
Separately, Willie Walsh, director-general of the global airline body the International Air Transport Association, 
stepped up pressure on governments to ease travel restrictions, saying the industry will experience a “much better 
second half” of the year than the first six months. 
He said he was confident international travel would return in the second half. There was plenty of scientific evidence 
now that “borders can be opened in a sensible way”, he added. 
Wizz Air warns of full-year losses as pandemic bites
Walsh pointed to data from Britain’s NHS regarding international travellers arriving in the UK, which showed that 
just 2.2 per cent tested positive for Covid-19 among 365,895 tests carried out in February to May.
“These universal restrictions on people are no longer needed,” he said.
Excluding passengers arriving from countries on Britain’s higher-risk red list, the positive rate fell to 1.46 per cent, 
according to the data.
Iata, which teamed up with Airbus and Boeing to demonstrate potential methodologies to manage the risks of 
Covid-19, hopes members of the G7 will discuss the issue when they meet later this month.
Wizz’s forecasts are marginally gloomier than those of Ryanair, its fierce competitor in European low-cost travel, 
which expects to break even over the next 12 months. 
Still, Varadi said there was clear pent-up demand for travel when restrictions are lifted.
“Consumers are very willing to come back and are coming back; the moment they can fly they are going to,” Varadi 
said. But he added that Europe’s “uncoordinated” reopening of its borders had left it very hard to predict how much 
flying would be possible over the coming months. 
The Hungarian carrier reported a net loss of €482m in the 12 months to the end of March, after passenger numbers 
fell 75 per cent to 10m. 
European airlines are hoping for restrictions to be lifted in time for a strong European summer, when they 
traditionally do most of their flying and earn the bulk of their revenue. 
Wizz is better placed than most, with €1.6bn in cash at the end of March and a cash burn averaging €61m a month 
over the past year. The airline has one of the strongest balance sheets in the European industry.
The airline is expected to emerge as a long-term winner from the crisis, thanks to its low cost base and expansion 
into new regions over the past year as rivals have retreated.
Like Ryanair, Wizz has taken delivery of new aircraft during the pandemic, and both carriers hope that the more 
fuel-efficient aircraft will cement their cost advantage over other airlines. 
“We have prepared the company to be an even more formidable player and to take advantage of the next phase of 
market opportunities that await post-pandemic. The investments we have made in our fleet and in our network over 
the past 12 months will soon yield results,” Varadi said. 
Investors agree, with Wizz’s shares hitting all-time highs earlier this year even as the pandemic caused sweeping 
disruption across the industry.
Shares closed marginally lower at £48.73 on Wednesday, but have risen almost 40 per cent over the past year. 
Load-Date: June 3, 2021
End of Document
Bloomsbury raises earnings forecasts after annual results beat expectations
Bloomsbury raises earnings forecasts after annual results beat expectations
 
FT.com
June 2, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 722 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Bloomsbury Publishing set a special dividend and raised guidance again after delivering forecast beating full-year 
results. 
For the year ended February pre-tax profit grew 31 per cent to £17.3m on revenues up 14 per cent to £185.1m. The 
publisher declared a special dividend of 9.78p per share in addition to the final dividend of 7.58p, up 10 per cent 
year on year. 
“Considering the ongoing momentum and strength of our business, Bloomsbury expects revenue to be ahead and 
profit to be comfortably ahead of market expectations” for the current fiscal year, said Nigel Newton, chief 
executive.
Bloomsbury shares closed at 309p on Tuesday for a 41 per cent gain over the past year, which gives the London-
based company a market value of nearly £260m.
Briefly
Construction materials distributor Brickability said it had agreed to buy Taylor Maxwell, a timber and cladding 
supplier, for up to £63m. It said the deal will be “significantly earnings accretive” and should help diversify its 
product offering. To help fund the deal Brickability raised £55m with a share placing to institutional investors. The 
new shares were placed at 95p, an 8.2 per cent discount to Tuesday’s close, and were accompanied by £38m of 
sales by existing investors “in order to meet market demand”. 
Bloomsbury raises earnings forecasts after annual results beat expectations
Wizz Air posted a €576m loss for the year ended March as revenue slumped 73 per cent to €739m. The budget 
airline reported total cash at the end of March of €1.6bn and a quarterly cash burn of €84m during the last quarter. 
Wizz said it expects to fly around 30 per cent of its capacity in the first quarter and flagged that it will remain 
lossmaking in the current year unless pandemic restrictions are permanently lifted, with normality returning in the 
fiscal year ending 2023. 
Traffic figures from Ryanair showed the airline carrying 1.8m passengers in May, up from 1m the month before. 
Ryanair said it had operated over 12,000 flights in May with a 79 per cent load factor, the percentage of available 
seating capacity that is occupied.
Hargreaves Services, the outsourcer for the industrial and property sectors, said results for the year ended May 
will be in line with expectations. It cited a “very strong performance” of its German joint venture and the early 
completion of a  land sale in Doncaster.
Beyond the Square Mile
Credit Suisse is  preparing for litigation against SoftBank after the collapse of Greensill Capital soured the 
relationship between the Swiss bank and one of the world’s largest tech investors, according to people briefed on 
the plans. The threat of a lawsuit comes as Credit Suisse clients press the bank to  compensate them for losses. 
Several class action lawsuits bringing together dozens of wealthy investors in the funds are gathering pace.
Leon Black, the former chief executive of Apollo Global Management, has been  hit with a lawsuit claiming that he 
raped and harassed a young Russian model before manipulating her with promises of money and sham job 
interviews at Goldman Sachs. The claims, which come weeks after Black stepped down from Apollo following 
scrutiny of his ties to the late paedophile Jeffrey Epstein, contradict Black’s account of what he has characterised as 
a “consensual affair” with a woman who he claims later extorted him.
The US Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday said it will not enforce Trump-era rules for 
shareholder advisory firms,  dealing a blow to companies such as ExxonMobil that have argued proxy advisers 
wield too much power. In a statement, commission chair Gary Gensler said he has asked the agency’s staff to 
revisit restrictions for proxy advisers that the commission adopted in July 2020. The staff should also reconsider 
guidance aimed at defanging proxy advisers that the agency published in 2019, he said.
Essential comment before you go
Lex
Made.com has confirmed plans to raise at least £100m in a premium listing on the London stock exchange. 
Bankers pin a valuation of about £1bn on the company. With household cash levels reasonably high there is no 
reason why Made.com cannot  carve out a comfortable domain. 
Helen Thomas
Most pay debates boil down to board judgment. Where investors believe that the pay is unacceptable but the 
judgment of those in charge was fine, they should explain why. Where they really think pay is a problem,  it’s time to 
get more personal.
Load-Date: June 2, 2021
End of Document
UK ministers plan limited expansion of ‘green list’ nations
UK ministers plan limited expansion of ‘green list’ nations
 
FT.com
June 1, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 580 words
Byline: George Parker and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
UK ministers are preparing to add a handful of countries to the government’s “green list” of travel destinations this 
week, but will stop short of the major expansion the leisure industry has called for.
Territories under consideration include Spain’s Balearic and Canary Islands, plus Malta, although UK government 
officials said no final decisions have been taken.
Grant Shapps, transport secretary, on Thursday will unveil the revised green list of countries from which people 
originally travelling from England do not need to quarantine on their return, with changes to the arrangements due 
to take effect next week. 
UK officials are not expecting Shapps to announce a “big bang” expansion of the list.
He will be guided by work from the government’s Joint Biosecurity Centre, part of the health department, which 
takes into account data including coronavirus case numbers, the prevalence of new variants, Covid-19 vaccination 
rates, and whether local statistics are reliable.
Only a dozen territories — including Portugal, Israel and Iceland — were put on the green list when it was first 
unveiled last month as part of England’s so-called traffic light system for overseas travel.
The leisure industry has been stepping up calls for popular tourist destinations to be added to the list in time for the 
summer holiday season.
UK ministers plan limited expansion of ‘green list’ nations
Several European countries including Malta, Finland and Poland that are on the government’s “amber list” currently 
have lower average daily rates of cases and a higher proportion of the population vaccinated with at least one jab 
than Portugal did when it was added to the green list, according to FT analysis.
Spain does not, but ministers have indicated they will consider island holiday destinations separately. 
Passengers coming to England from amber-list countries must quarantine at home for 10 days and take at least two 
costly PCR tests.
Last month Shapps held out the prospect of British holiday makers going to France and other European 
destinations this summer by moving the countries from the amber to the green list, as he urged people to be “a little 
patient”.
He has warned people not to take holidays in countries on the amber list, but said: “I don’t think people have a very 
long time to wait before other countries are able to join the green list.”
Passengers going to England from countries on the green list must take a pre-departure test. They also have to do 
a PCR test on the second day after their return.
Ryanair on Monday said hundreds of thousands of British holidaymakers had booked flights to Spain, Italy and the 
Greek islands this summer, even though all three countries are on the amber list.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, said: “The highly successful UK vaccine rollout has already enabled 
hundreds and thousands of British families to book their flights to Portugal this summer, and today we call on Grant 
Shapps to include all EU countries in the next revision of the UK’s green list.” 
But with UK case numbers rising, there is concern within the travel industry that more countries could follow France, 
Germany and Austria and introduce restrictions on British tourists. 
UK airports will also face a major test this week as a significant number of British holidaymakers return from 
Portugal after half-term school holidays.
There have been warnings of big queues as Border Force officials manually check people’s coronavirus paperwork.
Additional reporting by Chelsea Bruce-Lockhart, Martin Stabe and Oli Elliott
Load-Date: June 5, 2021
End of Document
European airlines face big hit as cost of polluting soars
European airlines face big hit as cost of polluting soars
 
FT.com
May 31, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 615 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Camilla Hodgson
Body
A sharp rise in the cost of polluting in Europe risks undermining airlines’ efforts to repair their balance sheets 
following the damage caused by Covid-19.
The cost of purchasing carbon allowances under the EU’s emissions trading system, ETS, has been on a record 
breaking rally, with prices more than doubling to above €50 a tonne compared with pre-pandemic levels.
That presents a problem for airlines in the region, which like other carbon intensive sectors must buy the tradable 
credits to cover the amount they pollute under parallel emissions systems in both the UK and the EU. 
The nascent UK system, which launched this month, started trading at higher prices, of above £50 a tonne.
Low-cost carriers including Ryanair, easyJet and Wizz Air have been hit particularly hard as the schemes only 
cover emissions on flights in Europe and the UK where they do nearly all their flying.
“There’s no getting away from the fact that the carbon price is going through the roof and these guys are exposed to 
that,” said Deutsche Bank analyst Jaime Rowbotham.  
Disclosure around emissions trading and hedging strategies are patchy, but Rowbotham estimates Ryanair, 
easyJet and Wizz will between them pay more than €600m in carbon costs in their 2023 financial years, up from 
about €330m before the crisis hit. 
European airlines face big hit as cost of polluting soars
Airlines are given an annual set of free credits, and must purchase the remainder to cover the rest of their 
emissions. Airlines have carried so few passengers during the pandemic that some free credits remain unused. 
They receive free credits to cover around half of their emissions at pre-pandemic levels.
But traders and market participants expect the price of carbon to keep rising as the net zero emission pledges of 
governments and corporates become more demanding. 
It has prompted several airlines to begin hedging credits in the same way as they do jet fuel in an effort to lock in 
lower prices. 
Ryanair has disclosed it has locked in credits at €25 a tonne, which it will use through to its 2023 financial year, 
although it expects costs to rise after that date. 
The carrier’s director of sustainability Thomas Fowler said the cost is a “tax on EU traffic”, adding that flights 
operating outside of Europe should also be included.
“Our view on it is that aviation as a whole has to do its job to reduce its carbon footprint, not intra-EU traffic,” he 
said.  
Proceeds should also be reinvested into the industry to fund sustainable fuels to help airlines cut their 
environmental footprint, he said. 
Both the EU and UK are planning to reduce the total number of allowances in their trading schemes as well as the 
number given out for free over the next decade, which is expected to push up the price of the credits further.
“On carbon prices, it’s clear that ETS compliance is making its way into the top three categories of airline costs, 
depending on how operators hedge,” said Laurent Donceel, senior policy director at lobby group Airlines for Europe.
Airlines will eventually want to pass these rising costs on to passengers, but this will be hard as they aim to 
stimulate demand by lowering prices as they emerge from the pandemic, said Alexander Paterson, an analyst at 
Peel Hunt. 
“They are selling ahead at prices that may not reflect the actual costs they incur if they use the credits they have 
and need to buy more at €50 plus. This is a problem really for faster growing airlines,” he said. 
Until recently, the cost of EU credits “never really got high enough to change behaviour,” said Matt Finch, UK policy 
manager at campaign group Transport & Environment.
But some airlines will now consider whether the more recent €50 threshold “is the bottom of the future price,” he 
said.
Load-Date: June 2, 2021
End of Document
Dissident’s arrest chills Belarusian opposition
Dissident’s arrest chills Belarusian opposition
 
FT.com
May 30, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 972 words
Byline: Max Seddon in Moscow and James Shotter in Warsaw
Body
It was two years ago, after Belarusian authorities arrested a friend on apparently fabricated drug charges, that 
Roman Protasevich first noticed suspicious men following him in Minsk and fled to Poland, where he sought political 
asylum.
Since then, the dissident blogger and other opposition figures have fought strongman president Alexander 
Lukashenko from European capitals like Vilnius and Warsaw. Home to large communities of expatriates at odds 
with the regime, they thought they were beyond his reach and protected by EU law.
Last Sunday, though, that calculation changed dramatically. Lukashenko scrambled a fighter jet to  force down a 
Ryanair plane and arrested Protasevich as he flew home to Vilnius with his girlfriend from a Greek holiday. 
“He thought he was safe. He had no way of knowing what was going to happen — he was on EU territory on an EU 
flight,” Protasevich’s father Dmitry told the Financial Times. “I think the fear only sunk in when he realised they were 
turning the plane around.”
Lukashenko’s move prompted immediate western opprobrium and  the promise of EU sanctions. While that 
heartened Belarus’s opposition leaders, it also injected a new layer of fear into their lives. Most of them are already 
in prison or in exile, where they fear for the safety of relatives back home.
Dissident’s arrest chills Belarusian opposition
“Right now no one is safe any more. Neither in Belarus, nor in the EU,” said Franak Viacorka, an aide to  Sviatlana 
Tsikhanouskaya, the opposition presidential candidate who fled to Vilnius last year after threats from Belarus’s 
security agency, still known as the KGB as in its Soviet days.
It was last August that Lukashenko, a mustachioed former collective farm boss who has ruled with an iron fist for 27 
years,  escalated his crack down on dissent, after hundreds of thousands protested his highly dubious re-election. 
Police have since arrested over 34,000 on protest-related charges, allegedly torturing many in custody. Yet even by 
those standards, Protasevich’s arrest was an escalation of repression and a worrying sign of worse potentially to 
come. 
“All the fugitives and protest-utes” would “answer for their crimes,” Lukashenko threatened this week, making it 
clear that Belarus would pursue exiled activists wherever they may be.
Protasevich’s arrest was a particular jolt for Tsikhanouskaya and Viacorka, as they had taken the same flight from 
Athens only a week earlier. “The entire KGB is working right now to destroy Tsikhanouskaya. We need to be aware 
of it and we need to take care of ourselves,” Viacorka said. 
It was in 2010 that Belarus’s exile community began to grow after Lukashenko last cracked down on major protests 
after he claimed a landslide election victory.
In response, western countries increased support to opposition-leaning media including US-funded Radio Free 
Europe and Polish-funded Belsat. Even so, for several years, dissidents continued to visit Belarus.
But then Nexta, a Poland-based opposition channel on messaging app Telegram, began publishing leaks from 
Belarusian authorities and films implicating Lukashenko in corruption.
Then, last summer, Nexta played a leading role in publishing on-the-ground accounts of the protests, even 
sometimes appearing to direct them. Edited then by Protasevich, its audience at one point topped 2m — an 
enormous number in a country of just 9.5m.
Nexta’s success broadcast the depth of Belarusians’ frustration with Lukashenko. But it also seems to have 
convinced Lukashenko that exiled dissidents posed an existential threat to his rule. 
“The journalists and their channels didn’t mince their words. They really insulted [Lukashenko and his regime],” said 
Igor Trushkevich, a Belarusian dissident living in Ukraine. “It’s entirely possible that Lukashenko was personally 
offended . . . he doesn’t forgive slights.”
To tighten the noose around Protasevich, his family said a KGB agent tried to convince his father, a retired 
lieutenant colonel, to trick his son into going to Prague, where security forces would kidnap him. When his parents 
moved to Poland, Lukashenko personally stripped Protasevich’s father of his military rank.
Nexta’s sources also became targets. Belarus’ supreme court this month sentenced an army officer to 18 years in 
prison for sending Nexta a document showing the interior ministry had requested thousands of troops to put down 
“mass disturbances”.
Stsiapan Putsila, Nexta’s founder, says he and colleagues have been receiving threats since Protasevich’s arrest 
that they would be killed, or handed over to the Belarusian authorities, or their Warsaw office blown up.
“Of course we will be have to be a bit more careful . . . all the comments suggest that we are next,” after 
Protasevich, he told the FT. “But we have to continue, we have to keep on fighting, we have to continue to speak 
out against the regime and we will do that.”
Be that as it may, Trushkevich believes the Ryanair flight’s forced landing was also designed to frighten Nexta’s 
readers.
Dissident’s arrest chills Belarusian opposition
“The first signal is just to scare people by making them think this can happen to them,” he said. “The second is to 
show their supporters how powerful they are and how stable the government is. Anyone who crosses a line that 
they’ve drawn is going to have problems — permanently.”
After a turbulent week, the opposition inside Belarus has mixed emotions. There is horror at the arrest of 
Protasevich and his girlfriend. But there is also hope it will prompt the international community to take tougher 
action against Lukashenko, including  swingeing sanctions.
“That day when we were trying to figure out what was going on, I couldn’t sleep, I couldn’t eat. It was terrible,” said 
Aksana, a Minsk businesswoman. “On the other hand, I hope the situation helped remind the world to pay attention 
to us, because we can’t do it on our own. We are not going to fight with guns.” 
Load-Date: June 3, 2021
End of Document
Lithuania confident of security despite tension with Belarus
Lithuania confident of security despite tension with Belarus
 
FT.com
May 30, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 735 words
Byline: Richard Milne, Nordic and Baltic Correspondent
Body
Lithuania has never been safer despite sharply rising tensions with neighbouring Belarus and Russia, according to 
the country’s prime minister.
Ingrida Simonyte told the Financial Times that the forced landing of a Ryanair flight between Athens and Vilnius by 
Belarus last weekend and the seizure of a dissident onboard showed that “you cannot exclude anything,” and “must 
be prepared for anything,” with the regime of president  Alexander Lukashenko.
Nato has  bolstered security in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Poland since Russia’s 2014 annexation of Crimea. 
Multinational battalions have been stationed in each country, led by the likes of the US and Germany, and air 
policing has been increased. 
“In a paradoxical way, Lithuania has never been safer than it is now. Unfortunately the region is becoming more 
unstable than it was 10 years ago. 
“Some things one could only have imagined, such as the redrawing of countries’ borders, has actually happened,” 
Simonyte said.
Lithuania has become one of the most outspoken defenders of liberal democracy, drawing dissidents such as 
Belarus opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya and Roman Protasevich, the journalist-activist arrested last 
Sunday. 
Lithuania confident of security despite tension with Belarus
It has repeatedly warned western countries about the dangers of being soft on Russia and has in recent months 
stood up to China, calling its repression of the Uyghur minority a genocide and withdrawing from the 17+1 group of 
central and eastern European countries and Beijing.
Lithuania’s prime minister said it had been essential for the EU to react quickly to the forced landing of the plane by 
Belarus as Minsk’s strategy was “a full oppression of all the freedoms we in the EU cherish”.
Simonyte added that the EU should consider “all sorts of  sanctions” against Lukashenko’s regime including 
different sectors of its economy, its ability to raise money in financial markets, and participation in the Ostrovets 
nuclear plant close to Vilnius that Lithuania has long objected to.
Simonyte would not discuss countermeasures being taken to protect Belarusian dissidents and a key ally of 
Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny who is also in Lithuania.
“We all know the story of  novichok in the United Kingdom. I’m afraid these are regimes where nothing is excluded. 
We remain alert, we remain cautious,” she added.
The Baltic states have been reassured by security commitments from Nato and the US in recent years as well as 
their own record of meeting the military alliance’s target of spending more than 2 per cent on defence. 
But their Nordic neighbours of Sweden, Norway and Denmark have  sounded the alarm over Russia’s activity in the 
Baltic Sea area as they  scramble to  increase their own spending.
Simonyte said that still more needed to be done in the Baltics, particularly with regard to beefing up air security. 
“We are so much safer and better prepared, as never before. But this is not the end of the story. This world, based 
on treaties, values, and rules, is being a little rearranged. It means we still have the case before our Nato partners 
that it needs to be strengthened further,” she said.
On the recent US  waiving of sanctions on the Nord Stream 2 pipeline that will bring Russian gas across the Baltic 
Sea, and which enjoys strong support from Germany, Simonyte warned of economic interests that caused allies to 
“turn a blind eye to some unpleasant things”. 
She said that the US and Germany might think they were strong enough to settle any disputes with Russia in a 
bilateral manner. 
“Maybe this is [justified] but it is important not to step away from basic values. You are increasing your dependence 
on countries that are not like you,” she said.
Lithuania has also come under financial scrutiny in recent weeks after the FT  reported that German prosecutors 
suspect a Lithuanian fintech was used to steal more than €100m from  Wirecard before it collapsed last year. 
Simonyte said Lithuania was “not a country that would turn a  blind eye over some dubious activities in exchange 
for having more players in the market”. 
She said there was no need for more regulation, but perhaps more resources were necessary, especially for the 
financial police. 
She said Lithuania’s central bank paid close attention to the security risk of countries such as Russia and Belarus 
trying to exploit the financial system by closely checking owners, the source of money, and “any links with regimes”.
Load-Date: June 4, 2021
End of Document
US moves to punish Belarus over forced landing of passenger jet
US moves to punish Belarus over forced landing of passenger jet
 
FT.com
May 29, 2021 Saturday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 447 words
Byline: James Politi in Washington
Body
The US has moved to punish Belarus for the  forced landing of a Ryanair flight last weekend by announcing that it 
would reimpose sanctions on nine of the country’s state-owned companies and would join the EU in developing a 
list of additional targets. 
In a statement late on Friday, Jen Psaki, the White House press secretary, said Washington was taking the steps 
“together with our partners and allies, to hold the regime accountable for its actions and to demonstrate our 
commitment to the aspirations of the people of Belarus”.
On Sunday Belarusian authorities diverted a Ryanair jet travelling between Greece and Lithuania to Minsk so they 
could  detain a dissident on board. 
The brazen move triggered a wave of condemnation from the west against president  Alexander Lukashenko’s 
government, which is closely allied with Russia and its president Vladimir Putin, and quick action by the EU to 
punish Belarus. The US was slower to respond but on Friday it began to take action. 
Psaki said that as of June 3, the US would reimpose “full blocking sanctions” against nine state-owned companies 
from Belarus that had previously been granted sanctions relief from the US Treasury department.
In addition, the White House press secretary said the US was “developing a list of targeted sanctions against key 
members” of the regime in  Belarus that were “associated with ongoing abuses of human rights and corruption, the 
falsification of the 2020 election and the events of May 23”. 
US moves to punish Belarus over forced landing of passenger jet
Psaki added that the Treasury department would also prepare an executive order for President Joe Biden to sign 
that authorises US “authorities to impose sanctions on elements” of the regime in Belarus as well as “its support 
network, and those that support corruption, the abuse of human rights and attacks on democracy”. 
The crackdown from Washington also includes a warning from the US Department of State for US citizens to avoid 
travelling to Belarus, and a notice for American passenger airlines to “exercise extreme caution when considering 
flying in Belarusian airspace” — though this appeared to fall short of an outright ban. 
Early this week the EU agreed to expand  sanctions against Belarus and ban its state airline from the bloc’s airports 
in response to the intercepted flight. Brussels also called for the immediate release of Roman Protasevich, a 
leading activist, and his partner, Sofia Sapega, who were detained after the Ryanair flight was forced to land in 
Minsk. 
Washington’s move could complicate the lead-up to a  summit between Biden and Putin to be held in Geneva in 
mid-June in an effort by the two countries to patch up relations that have rapidly deteriorated in recent months. 
Load-Date: May 29, 2021
End of Document
Russia releases $500m loan to Belarus as west imposes sanctions
Russia releases $500m loan to Belarus as west imposes sanctions
 
FT.com
May 29, 2021 Saturday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 473 words
Byline: Henry Foy in Moscow
Body
Russia has agreed to release $500m in credit to Belarus and look to increase the number of flights between the two 
countries as the Kremlin doubled down on its support for  Alexander Lukashenko after his forced landing of a 
passenger flight that has sparked western condemnation.
Russian president Vladimir Putin hosted Lukashenko in Sochi on Saturday, treating his guest to a yacht trip on the 
Black Sea a day after the two men held talks for more than five hours. 
The two-day summit has underscored Moscow’s position as the embattled autocrat’s closest and most reliable 
foreign ally, and took place as the US joined the EU in  imposing sanctions against Minsk.
Russia’s support for Lukashenko was in stark contrast to US and EU condemnation and could complicate 
preparations for a summit between Putin and US president Joe Biden in Geneva next month, which has been billed 
as an effort to normalise relations between Moscow and the west.
Belarusian authorities  used a bomb threat and a fighter jet to force a Ryanair flight travelling between Greece and 
Lithuania to divert to Minsk on May 23, where police then detained  Roman Protasevich, a leading dissident 
journalist, who was on board. 
That brazen move, described by Ryanair as “state-sponsored piracy”, provoked condemnation from western 
countries. 
Russia releases $500m loan to Belarus as west imposes sanctions
The EU  has banned Belarus state airline Belavia from its airports and pledged to impose additional sanctions 
against the country, while Biden on Friday reimposed “full blocking sanctions” against nine Belarus state-owned 
companies.
The Kremlin has criticised the west’s response and, announced that a delayed $500m loan to Minsk would be 
released by the end of June. 
The money represents the second tranche of a $1bn financial package Moscow agreed in December to bolster 
Lukashenko’s finances, which have been hit by the fallout from mass protests against his fraudulent election victory 
last year, and the impact of Covid-19.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the transport ministries of Russia and Belarus would work together to 
“organise air transportation” that would allow Belarusians to travel to Russia for summer vacations and to fly home 
from European countries via Russia, offsetting the impact of the EU’s flight ban.
“President Lukashenko informed [Putin] in detail about what happened to the Ryanair plane,” Peskov told reporters, 
adding that the talks were “very constructive, rich in content”.
The Kremlin has dismissed as  “Russophobia” western claims that Moscow assisted Minsk in the operation to arrest 
Protasevich or was given advance warning. 
The dissident founded a media channel that reported on and helped co-ordinate protests against Lukashenko.
Russia this week forced at least two European airlines to cancel flights to Moscow after it failed to approve new 
flight plans involving a detour around Belarus.
Load-Date: May 31, 2021
End of Document
Lukashenko accuses west of trying to destabilise Belarus
Lukashenko accuses west of trying to destabilise Belarus
 
FT.com
May 28, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 752 words
Byline: Max Seddon in Moscow
Body
Belarusian strongman Alexander Lukashenko accused the west of trying to destabilise his country when he met 
with Vladimir Putin after a tumultuous week prompted the EU to ready sanctions on Minsk for forcing a Ryanair 
flight to land and arresting a dissident on board.
Speaking with the Russia’s president on Friday, Lukashenko said the EU was “trying to cause us problems” and 
said he would show Putin “who these people are” from a cache of secret documents he said he had brought in a 
suitcase.
“They are trying to destabilise the situation to the level of last August,” Lukashenko said, referring to mass protests 
that he brutally repressed after they erupted last summer following his highly dubious election victory.
Lukashenko was in Sochi, seeking Russian backing after the Ryanair incident, and subsequent detention of 
opposition blogger Roman Protasevich and his girlfriend Sofia Sapega, left him a pariah in Europe. 
In what has been taken as a tacit sign of Russian support,  two European airlines cancelled flights to Moscow on 
Thursday after Russian authorities failed to approve new routes that avoided Belarus’s airspace. EU governments 
had demanded their airlines  steer clear of Belarus and banned its state airline Belavia from EU airports. 
Russia’s aviation agency on Friday said it had needed more time to approve the new routes “due to the increased 
volume of requests”. It added that European airlines had flown to and from Russia over Belarus 113 times in the 
past 24 hours, and used alternative routes 53 times.
Lukashenko accuses west of trying to destabilise Belarus
“What did Belavia have to do with this? They really went to town on them. What for?” Lukashenko told Putin. “If it 
hadn’t been for you at this time . . . I saw Moscow refuse to accept planes if they fly around Belarus. They got the 
message immediately.”
The two leaders can often seem like awkward allies. So their meeting is seen a crucial test for Lukashenko who 
wants to show the west and domestic opponents his country can ride out increasing international isolation.
“If Russia wasn’t supporting them politically, there’s no way Belarus would act like this — not just downing the 
plane, but . . . repressions inside the country,” said Dzianis Melyantsou, an expert at the Minsk Dialogue Council on 
International Relations. 
“Even when Belarus behaves outlandishly, and it seems there’s not much in it for Russia to support Belarus, Russia 
still shows it’s the key ally. So Lukashenko is a lot more confident than he would be without that,” Melyantsou 
added.
The meeting in Sochi was the fourth between Putin and Lukashenko since protests broke out in Belarus last year, 
reinforcing their hitherto faltering relationship. 
Belarus had tried to reduce its dependence on Russian oil, explored restoring US ties, expelled Moscow’s 
ambassador, seized a state-owned Russian bank and arrested 32 Russian mercenaries. 
Since last summer, however, Moscow has offered Minsk billions of dollars in loans; defended Belarus’s right to 
intercept the plane; has not called for Sapega’s release, even though she is a Russian citizen; and stood by as 
Belarus’s security services harassed dissidents. 
Belarus’s president has, meanwhile, insisted that exiled bloggers such as Protasevich are part of a US-funded 
dress rehearsal for attempts to overthrow Putin.
“Lukashenko has a compelling argument: Russia and Belarus have a common enemy in the west. Thus, you either 
support me or you eventually lose Belarus to the west,” said Dmitri Trenin, director of the Carnegie Moscow Center. 
Even so, the Ryanair incident may make Belarus a problematic ally for Russia, said Tatiana Stanovaya, founder of 
political consultancy R. Politik. 
“It’s one thing when you’re doing an integration project with a country that everyone else respects. It’s another thing 
where you’re embracing a state that nobody else recognises as legitimate.”
In a possible portent of that faltering legitimacy, the UN’s International Civil Aviation Organization agreed late on 
Thursday to investigate Minsk’s forced Ryanair grounding, with an interim report expected by June 26. 
Lithuania also expelled two Belarusian diplomats on Friday, saying that their activities were “incompatible with 
diplomatic status”. The foreign ministry  tweeted that this “also shows solidarity w/#Latvia after [Belarus] expelled 
employees . . . in Minsk”.
Ukraine, meanwhile, said it would prohibit any Belarus-registered planes from flying over national airspace as of this 
weekend.
Additional reporting by Roman Olearchyk in Kyiv and Richard Milne in Oslo
Load-Date: June 3, 2021
End of Document
Hybrid working makes it harder to detect fraud, auditors warn
Hybrid working makes it harder to detect fraud, auditors warn
 
FT.com
May 28, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 571 words
Byline: Michael O’Dwyer
Body
Hybrid working is creating a “culture crisis” for companies by eroding staff loyalty and making it harder to retain 
talented employees as well as detect fraud, auditors have warned. 
Almost half of senior auditors believe the shift to remote working during the pandemic has damaged organisational 
culture, according to new research by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors. 
The poll of more than 700 senior auditors across the UK and Europe “highlights a rising post-pandemic 
organisational culture crisis, which has the potential to trigger a chain of negative impacts across wider business 
structures”, the CIIA said. 
Heli Mooney, head of internal audit at Ryanair, said: “Most businesses are focusing on ironing out issues of  the 
hybrid working model from technical and practical perspectives. What is not dissected enough is how new working 
models can potentially erode organisational culture.”
“Dilution of a strong organisational culture can trigger a myriad of . . . risks, not least on talent management and 
fraud,” she added. 
Many companies — including tech groups Google and Microsoft,  accountants EY, KPMG and PwC and law firms 
Clifford Chance and Freshfields — have already committed to making working from home a permanent part of their 
business model.
Hybrid working makes it harder to detect fraud, auditors warn
But John Wood, chief executive of the CIIA, warned that “the risk of a culture crisis must be considered by all 
businesses pursuing a hybrid business model”.
“It has never been more urgent for businesses to develop strong systems to both identify and mitigate risks to 
organisational culture, before it becomes a crisis,” he added.
Business continuity, crisis management and disaster response was the category of risk most heightened by the 
pandemic and deemed an area of major concern by two-thirds of respondents, the CIIA poll found. Cyber and data 
security was second, followed by health, safety and security. 
The erosion of organisational culture shot up as an area of worry, ranking fourth from 11th place a year earlier, and 
is now above concerns such as financial, liquidity and insolvency risks, and digital disruption. 
Reduced face-to-face interaction between colleagues in a hybrid environment would curtail previous processes for 
building culture and team cohesion, said the CIIA, a professional association representing 10,000 internal auditors 
across all sectors in the UK and Ireland. 
“Water cooler moments or conversations over the top of a desk, simply can’t happen in a virtual environment and 
they take conscious thought to recreate when working remotely,”  Hywel Ball, UK chair of accountant EY, said. 
“Simple actions, like ensuring junior colleagues are invited or updated after meetings, can make a really big 
difference to whether people feel included.”
Companies should mitigate the risks of remote working to their culture by including reviews of working practices in 
their internal controls and ensuring audit teams are empowered to challenge management to preserve culture as 
the shift to hybrid working continues, the CIIA said. 
“We’ve implemented a behavioural risk assessment which aims to be a forward-looking view of culture, seeking 
drivers of red flags that could lead to wider issues,” said Alison McFadyen, group head of internal audit at Standard 
Chartered Bank. The group interviewed individuals and encouraged people to speak up “to understand behaviours 
that could give rise to organisational culture risk”, she added.
Load-Date: May 28, 2021
End of Document
‘Why should he stop?’ Defiant Lukashenko calls the west’s bluff on Belarus
‘Why should he stop?’ Defiant Lukashenko calls the west’s bluff on Belarus
 
FT.com
May 27, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1021 words
Byline: Max Seddon in Moscow and James Shotter in Warsaw
Body
Since deciding to divert an EU commercial plane with a military jet and arrest the opposition activist it carried, 
President Alexander Lukashenko of Belarus has attracted western outrage and threats of economic sanctions — 
further isolating the landlocked eastern European country.
On Wednesday, the Belarusian strongman made clear it was all worth it.
Speaking for the first time since the  forced landing of Vilnius-bound Ryanair flight 4978 in Minsk and the detentions 
of blogger Roman Protasevich and his Russian girlfriend, Sofia Sapega, the 66-year-old former collective farm boss 
warned it was only “a matter of time” before other dissidents abroad would be caught too. 
“We know you by sight,” he said.
Lukashenko, who has ruled Belarus for 27 years, was already an international pariah after he declared victory in a 
disputed election last summer and cracked down on peaceful protests against his regime. 
On Tuesday, the EU  banned Belarus from the bloc’s airspace and is considering sanctions that could cut off key 
sectors of its export market. With most land borders closed and the skies over the country now empty, Belarusians 
have few ways to leave other than through Russia, which has stood by Lukashenko.
But the plane interception underlines that despite international pressure, after months of suppressing protests, 
Lukashenko is feeling stronger at home, said Maryia Rohava, an Oslo university researcher.
‘Why should he stop?’ Defiant Lukashenko calls the west’s bluff on Belarus
“The fact that they feel they can carry out this sort of atrocious act without fearing the consequences is a sign they 
feel very secure in the backing of Russia, in their own domestic situation, and in the EU’s lack of credible 
commitment to imposing the kind of sanctions that would hurt the regime,” she said. 
“In the environment in which they function, calculation of the costs was not even part of the puzzle.”
For a brief moment last August it looked as if Lukashenko’s regime was about to collapse. Hundreds of thousands 
of people took to the streets every Sunday to protest at the election result, while workers at a factory thought to 
employ Lukashenko’s political base loudly booed him when he came to make a speech.
Lukashenko determinedly  clung to power by tightening control of the media, sending riot police to disperse protests 
violently, and arresting dissidents, many of whom say they were tortured in custody. By the winter, the weekly 
protests fizzled out.
Viasna, a Belarusian human rights association, said the country of 9.5m had 421 political prisoners — so many that 
guards in some detention centres had forced them to wear yellow tags.
“The underlying reasons for these protests have not gone away. The grievances are just as significant as they 
were,” said Nigel Gould-Davies, a former UK ambassador to Minsk and now senior fellow at the International 
Institute for Strategic Studies. “It’s just that the authorities at the moment have learnt how to intimidate open and 
visible manifestations of that discontent.”
After Protasevich’s arrest, Belarusian authorities leaked videos of the blogger confessing to “organising mass 
disturbances”, an offence that carries a sentence of up to 15 years in prison. Protasevich’s father  told Reuters his 
son’s nose appeared to be broken and that he believed the admission of guilt had been forced.
Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, Belarus’s exiled opposition leader, tweeted that the video of Protasevich and a similar 
leaked confession by Sapega were “terrifying” and an attempt to “[terrorise] the whole country”.
On Wednesday, in an apparent attempt to intimidate political opponents, Belarusian authorities  released footage 
showing what is thought to be the final hours of dissident Vitold Ashurak’s life. The clip showed the activist, who 
died on May 21 of unknown causes, alone in a prison cell and unable to stand, collapsing twice face-first.
Dmitry Stakhovsky, an 18-year-old orphan, died by suicide on Tuesday after being charged with similar crimes to 
Protasevich and blamed “moral pressure” from investigators for his death, according to a note on social media.
“It’s a logical continuation of what we’ve seen in the past few months. Nobody stops the repressions, there’s no 
reason to, and they continue,” said Artyom Shraibman, a Minsk-based non-resident fellow at the Carnegie Moscow 
Center. “Society isn’t rising up again and the new sanctions have all been completely unserious so far. So why 
should he stop?”
Protasevich’s arrest signified an escalation in Lukashenko’s willingness to pursue dissidents abroad, Shraibman 
said. Russia’s FSB arrested two opposition figures in Moscow and handed them over to Minsk’s KGB in April. 
Shortly afterwards, a top Belarusian security official vowed to “find and purge” those responsible for the August 
protests.
The EU has refused to recognise the election after Lukashenko claimed to have defeated  Tsikhanouskaya, who 
fled to Lithuania under pressure from the KGB.
President Emmanuel Macron of France invited Tsikhanouskaya to attend next month’s G7 summit in Carbis Bay, 
Cornwall, while the bloc is considering economic sanctions against Belarusian companies and oligarchs from a list 
compiled by opposition figures.
Hopes of a settlement, however, have been dashed by  Russia’s continued support for Lukashenko, who claims 
western intelligence is destabilising Belarus as a dress rehearsal for “hybrid warfare” against Moscow. 
‘Why should he stop?’ Defiant Lukashenko calls the west’s bluff on Belarus
President Vladimir Putin has set aside his strained personal relationship with Lukashenko to offer Belarus billions of 
dollars in Russian loans and will meet his counterpart in Sochi on Friday.
Though Moscow is believed to be quietly pushing for Lukashenko to step down after he holds a long-delayed 
constitutional referendum, the Kremlin’s continued support is enough to embolden Lukashenko to snub pressure 
from the west, according to Shraibman.
Instead, the EU sanctions could “irritate Lukashenko and he might escalate more”, Shraibman said. 
“There’s no way he’ll soften his stance without getting Russia involved in the process, or raising the costs of this for 
Russia. Because for now Lukashenko feels like Russia is backing him up, and he’s doing whatever he feels like.”
Load-Date: May 27, 2021
End of Document
Two airlines cancel Moscow flights as EU discusses Belarus sanctions
Two airlines cancel Moscow flights as EU discusses Belarus sanctions
 
FT.com
May 27, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 744 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London, Michael Peel in Brussels and David Keohane in Paris
Body
Two European airlines had to cancel flights to Moscow after Russian authorities failed to approve new routes that 
avoided Belarus’s airspace in response to Minsk’s interception of a passenger jet.
Air France and Austrian Airlines sought to reroute flights that would normally fly over Belarus when EU 
governments demanded their airlines  avoid the country’s airspace. The EU was acting in response to the 
interception of Ryanair flight 4978 by Belarusian authorities on Sunday in order to detain an opposition activist. 
Air France and Austrian Airlines said Russian aviation authorities had not approved the new routes, leading to the 
cancellation of a flight from Paris to Moscow on Wednesday, and from Vienna to Moscow on Thursday. An Air 
France flight to Russia on Friday was still awaiting permission to use a new route avoiding Belarus.
“The Russian reaction is absolutely incomprehensible to us,” Austria’s foreign ministry was quoted as saying by 
Reuters on Thursday. 
Several other European carriers, including KLM and a British Airways cargo flight, have been allowed to land in 
Russia using new routes, however. The Kremlin did not comment and referred inquiries to aviation authorities.
Airline industry insiders have grown concerned about the politicisation of airspace after the Ryanair flight from 
Athens to Vilnius was  forced to land in Minsk because of an alleged bomb threat. Two of the 126 passengers, anti-
regime activist Roman Protasevich and his Russian partner, were arrested after the plane landed. Three other 
passengers stayed behind in Minsk.
Two airlines cancel Moscow flights as EU discusses Belarus sanctions
However, the supposed bomb threat cited by Belarusian authorities was sent in an email after the plane was 
diverted, according to email provider Proton Technologies. “We cannot access or verify the contents of the 
message. However . . . we can confirm that the message in question was sent after the plane was redirected,” the 
company said.
Ryanair has labelled the forced landing an act of “aviation piracy”, and the UK and EU have urged their airlines to 
avoid Belarusian airspace, banned the state-owned carrier from their airports, and vowed to impose fresh economic 
sanctions on the regime. The US has requested the immediate release of Protasevich and his partner. 
 Russia has stood out by supporting Minsk, calling the EU’s reaction “hysteric”. Russia’s president Vladimir Putin 
and Belarus’s leader Alexander Lukashenko are due to meet on Friday in Russia. 
Willie Walsh, head of the International Air Transport Association, has said it is “disturbing” to see a commercial flight 
diverted “for clearly bogus reasons”.
“I would like to think this does not set a precedent. It’s important we build on public and united condemnation . . . to 
ensure we don’t see a repeat of this behaviour,” he told a media conference on Wednesday.
While avoiding Belarusian airspace adds miles and fuel costs to some journeys heading east out of Europe, airlines 
have complied. However, any problems with Russia would be more damaging, given its size. 
The International Civil Aviation Organization, a UN forum that sets standards for civil aviation worldwide, late on 
Thursday announced an investigation into the Ryanair incident, and whether Belarus’s actions had broken 
international aviation law.
Salvatore Sciacchitano, ICAO council president, said: “The council has decided that all relevant facts should be 
officially established through an ICAO investigation conducted by the ICAO secretariat.” 
Meanwhile, EU foreign ministers held initial talks on Thursday on punitive measures against Belarus’s regime, with 
the country’s lucrative potash sector high on the agenda.
The European bloc will target economic structures and financial transactions in Belarus “significantly”, Heiko Maas, 
Germany’s foreign minister, told reporters ahead of the informal gathering in Lisbon.
“The hijacking of the plane and the detention of the two passengers is completely unacceptable, and we will start 
discussing implementation of the sectoral and economic sanctions,” said Josep Borrell, EU foreign policy chief.
Jean Asselborn, Luxembourg’s foreign minister, said potash — a crucial ingredient in fertilisers — was the 
“keyword” because Belarus is one of the biggest global suppliers. “I think it would hurt Lukashenko very much if we 
managed something in this area,” he said.
Member states are aiming to pass the new measures at a meeting of foreign ministers on June 21, say diplomats.
Additional reporting by Max Seddon in Moscow
Load-Date: May 28, 2021
End of Document
Angela Merkel has dealt Europe’s authoritarian leaders a trump card
Angela Merkel has dealt Europe’s authoritarian leaders a trump card
 
FT.com
May 27, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 754 words
Byline: Philip Stephens
Body
Vladimir Putin and  Alexander Lukashenko are not natural soulmates. The Russian president finds his fellow 
autocrat in Belarus  a wilful ally. What unites the two leaders is a determination to hold on to power whatever the 
cost by way of ruthless repression of political opposition. 
They also share the same perception of the west in general and Europe in particular. However much western 
democracies may huff and puff about upholding international rules and norms, they are essentially flabby and 
weak. 
Flagrant violations of international law may sometimes stir the EU into action. But sanctions invariably fall short of 
the real economic pain that would change the Kremlin’s cost-benefit analysis. And reprisals can be put to a 
purpose. Putin’s nationalism casts Russia as forever under threat from western aggression. Sanctions slot into the 
narrative.  
This is the calculation that informed Russia’s annexation of Crimea and its occupation of territory in eastern 
Ukraine. It emboldens Moscow in its support for Bashar al-Assad in Syria, in the murder of regime opponents living 
abroad and the arrest of Alexei Navalny at home. It also encourages Russian meddling in western elections and 
cyber attacks directed by the Kremlin.
It is a comfortable bet that Lukashenko shared the assumption of impunity when he ordered the hijacking of a 
Ryanair passenger jet in order to kidnap the dissident journalist  Roman Protasevich. On the evidence of Europe’s 
response so far, he was probably right. 
Angela Merkel has dealt Europe’s authoritarian leaders a trump card
The  EU’s answer to this flagrant air piracy has been to advise airlines to avoid overflying Belarus and to bar the 
state carrier Belavia from European airports. Key regime figures may also face travel bans and asset freezes. 
Inconvenient? Yes. A threat to Lukashenko’s hold on power? Scarcely.
It is unclear whether Putin gave his explicit backing. European diplomats say he was almost certainly kept informed. 
Either way,  EU sanctions will now fix Lukashenko more firmly in the Russian camp. 
The EU is never going to find it easy to reach agreement on sanctions. Its 27 members have different interests and 
different histories. Germany, Italy and France pay close attention to the economic opportunities in Russia. For 
Poland and the Baltic states, security is uppermost. Germany’s Angela Merkel, however, has also dealt the  
autocrats a trump card. 
Few can match Merkel in her rhetorical devotion to the rules-based international system. Putin’s ambitions are 
entirely antithetical. He wants a return to the spheres of influence of great power politics. Doubtless, the German 
chancellor is sincere in her conviction. Germany has prospered greatly from multilateralism. And yet. She is almost 
always the voice of caution when the conversation turns to enforcing the rules.
In part, this may have sometime to do with timing. She reached office quite soon after the US had gone to war in 
Afghanistan and Iraq — scarcely the best advertisement for bold intervention to uphold the international order. 
There is also temperament. Like many of a centrist disposition, she can mix up moderation and vacillation.
That said, Merkel takes seriously her role as a champion for German industry. Foreign policy must be carefully 
calibrated to avoid damaging the country’s legendary export performance. 
Thus Berlin took the lead in pushing through the EU’s recent investment agreement with China in spite of Beijing’s 
growing disdain for international rules. Closer to home, fellow EU member Hungary has become a pivotal 
manufacturing hub for Germany’s automobile industry. Its prime minister, Viktor Orban, is marching the country 
towards authoritarianism. Merkel has consistently applied a brake on EU action to uphold Hungarian democracy. 
With Russia, the test for Merkel is the pipeline under the Baltic to bring Russian gas to Germany.  Nord Stream 2 is 
nearing completion. It promises at once to undercut the EU’s joint energy policy, to offer strategic economic security 
to the Kremlin and to weaken Ukraine. Scrapping the project would show serious intent on the part of the west to 
uphold a law-based order. It would also impose significant cost on German businesses. 
By ignoring the entreaties of the US and many European governments to call a halt, Merkel is setting a clear limit 
on Europe’s response to Kremlin lawlessness. Putin can do as he pleases in the knowledge the EU’s reaction will 
be constrained by Berlin. Sanctions may sting, but they will not wound. Merkel cannot complain if others see her as 
the autocrats’ ally.
     
Load-Date: May 27, 2021
End of Document
Letter: Obama’s action against Morales was air piracy too
Letter: Obama’s action against Morales was air piracy too
 
FT.com
May 26, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 302 words
Body
Your hard-hitting editorial (“Lukashenko’s air piracy must be punished”,  FT View, May 25) stated that “even by the 
thuggish if capricious standards of Belarus dictator Alexander Lukashenko, the forced diversion of a Ryanair flight in 
order to arrest one of its passengers is an outrage”. 
Your  news team also reported a comment from Jen Psaki, US president Joe Biden’s press secretary, calling it a 
brazen affront to international peace and security by the regime in Belarus.
However, the event also recalls the  press coverage of the forced landing in Vienna of a plane carrying the then 
Bolivian president Evo Morales in July 2013, when en route from Russia. The plane was forced to land amid US 
suspicions that whistleblower Edward Snowden may have been aboard.
The same Psaki, at the time spokesperson for the US state department, acknowledged that the US had been “in 
contact with a range of countries across the world who had any chance of having Snowden land or even transit 
through their countries”.
The FT reported that Dilma Rousseff, then president of Brazil, said the blocking of Morales’ flight was a violation of 
international law and civilised norms between nations, and demanded “an immediate explanation” and apologies 
from the countries involved in forcing it to divert to Austria, including France and Spain. 
Lukashenko is certainly wrong to take the action he did with the Ryanair flight, and his dictatorial regime should be 
condemned and punished by the international community for this and the other acts of repression in Belarus.
Letter: Obama’s action against Morales was air piracy too
But Psaki should perhaps acknowledge that she is a hypocrite, and Biden’s leadership in foreign affairs might begin 
by renouncing past acts of over-reach by his predecessors, including those by former president Barack Obama. 
George Horsington
Edlibach, Switzerland
Load-Date: May 26, 2021
End of Document
Lukashenko claims ‘planned provocation’ forced interception of Ryanair flight
Lukashenko claims ‘planned provocation’ forced interception of Ryanair 
flight
 
FT.com
May 26, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 629 words
Byline: Max Seddon in Moscow
Body
Alexander Lukashenko has accused the west of staging a “planned provocation” that he claimed forced Belarus to 
intercept a Ryanair flight carrying a prominent dissident at the weekend.
In his first comments since he sent a fighter jet to escort the Lithuania-bound plane to Minsk, the president of 
Belarus told parliament he had “acted legally, protecting people according to all international laws”.
The Kremlin said there was “no reason not to trust” what Lukashenko said, but others, including Nato and Greece 
— where the plane first took off — disputed his account.
Lukashenko on Wednesday defended his country’s arrest of dissident blogger Roman Protasevich, which 
opposition leaders and western governments said was the real reason for the forced landing, as the country’s 
“sovereign right”.
He claimed Minsk air traffic control had passed on a warning of a bomb threat it received from Switzerland. 
Belarusian officials previously said the threat came from Palestinian militant group Hamas, which has  denied any 
involvement, via ProtonMail, the Switzerland-based encrypted email service.
ProtonMail told the Financial Times: “We haven’t seen credible evidence that the claims are true, but there is plenty 
of evidence to support the contrary.” 
Lukashenko claims ‘planned provocation’ forced interception of Ryanair flight
Lukashenko said the Ryanair pilots had made their own decision to land the plane, en route from Athens, in Minsk, 
despite being much closer to its destination, the Lithuanian capital, Vilnius, at the time. 
The former collective farm boss, who has ruled Belarus with an iron fist for 27 years, denied claims by Ryanair 
passengers that they had been held at gunpoint in Minsk and said the crew “was on the phone with someone for 
seven hours and didn’t want to fly out”.
He said Athens and Vilnius airports had also received the bomb threat and refused to let the plane land in Vilnius. 
But Greece disputed that account. A foreign ministry spokesperson said the country “sticks to the statement made 
last Sunday, describing the incident as a state-sponsored hijacking”. 
Lithuanian authorities declined to comment because of their ongoing criminal investigation. But Gabrielius 
Landsbergis, foreign minister, said: “Terrorist is what terrorist does or intends to do.”
Nato, meanwhile, described the act as “unacceptable” and said it supported calls for an urgent independent 
investigation.
Lukashenko also suggested critics of Belarus should have been grateful he did not order the plane to be shot down 
as it flew close to a nuclear power plant.
“Was Chernobyl not enough?” he said. “If there was a bomb on board the plane and terrorists wanted to blow it up, 
we couldn’t really have helped. But I couldn’t let the plane fall on our people’s heads.”
Western nations have condemned the flight’s forced landing and called for the immediate release of Protasevich 
and his girlfriend Sofia Sapega, who was also on the flight. The couple were detained immediately after the plane 
landed in Minsk, and were recorded in jail confessing to “organising mass disturbances”. 
Belarus placed Protasevich and the co-founder of Nexta, the Poland-based dissident media group where the 26-
year-old blogger was previously editor, on a terrorist watchlist in November.
Lukashenko implied that Nexta was being directed by western intelligence to destabilise Belarus as a testing 
ground for future attacks on its ally, Russia.
“I’d like to remind you that one well-known channel that started out covering Belarusian issues, but not on our land, 
is already working full out against Russia, thus showing the true goal of western strategists,” he said.
“Their goal is to dissolve the Belarusian people and move on to smothering their arch-enemy: the Russian.”
Additional reporting by Eleni Varvitsioti in Athens, Richard Milne in Oslo and Michael Peel in Brussels
Load-Date: May 27, 2021
End of Document
UK listings: new rules are late and off-target
UK listings: new rules are late and off-target
 
FT.com
May 26, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 472 words
Body
Talk about closing the stable door after the horse has kicked holes in the walls, scared the farm hands and bolted 
back to the steppe. Rishi Sunak is mooting a  national security provision to block companies from listing on the 
London Stock Exchange. This appears aimed at businesses from the former Soviet Union linked to regimes there. 
Only recent air piracy by Belarus gives this belated move a sheen of timeliness.
Any such law championed by the chancellor would feature as a companion piece to a recently enacted national 
security law. This gives the UK wide powers to scrutinise and block takeovers that might deliver sensitive 
technologies to its rivals. Here, China is the implicit threat. 
The growing split between democratic and authoritarian world powers is proving a great antidote to moral relativism. 
Ex-Soviet companies have been linked to local regimes for as long as Chinese business has been buying or 
appropriating western trade secrets. Previously, western businesses — particularly investment banks — were 
inclined to shrug and talk about “cultural differences”.
The current shift has more to do with consolidation of power by China and Russia than the City’s painful experience 
over the past two decades. A number of businesses from former Soviet countries listed in London, notably FTSE 
100 member Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. Revelations over the appalling governance of this Kazakh miner 
showed how mismatched expectations of oligarchs and City investors could be.
ENRC delisted. EN+ is still on the market. Oleg Deripaska floated global depositary receipts in the energy company 
in London in 2017. The Russian tycoon’s supposed ties to President Vladimir Putin, which he denies, have raised 
eyebrows. He has been subject to sanctions in the US since 2018. 
UK listings: new rules are late and off-target
London is also a venue for $1.25bn of eurobonds issued by Belarus. The west is furious with President Alexander 
Lukashenko for commandeering a Ryanair flight in order to arrest a critic at the weekend.
Usually corporate governance is the bailiwick of the Financial Conduct Authority, gatekeeper of listing rules. 
Preserving national security falls to the government. Blocking listings, as it plans to, is no way to foil spooks.
It is, however, clear to the City which countries have least-favoured nation status. Ministers’ previous 
disengagement left banks and exchanges to make their own judgments. Goldman Sachs, for example, smartly 
withdrew from one float when the alleged underworld links of a prospective client surfaced. The City failed to raise 
certain eastern businesses’ low standards of governance. These now figure as a threat rather than an opportunity.
If you are a subscriber and would like to receive alerts when Lex articles are published, just click the button “Add to 
myFT”, which appears at the top of this page above the headline. 
Load-Date: May 26, 2021
End of Document
Belarus hijack echoes events in Libya 50 years ago
Belarus hijack echoes events in Libya 50 years ago
 
FT.com
May 26, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 702 words
Byline: Victor Mallet
Body
Shortly after Belarus forced a Ryanair flight en route to Lithuania to land in Minsk this week so the authorities could 
arrest journalist and opposition activist  Roman Protasevich and his partner, someone asked on  Twitter: “Any 
precedent for a country forcing down a civilian airliner in its airspace to arrest a dissident?”
I knew the answer was yes, because I was on a flight 50 years ago when a similar act of state-organised air piracy 
took place. BOAC Flight 045 was heading from London to Khartoum via Rome on July 22 1971 when it was ordered 
to land in Benghazi by the Libyan regime of Muammer Gaddafi as it crossed Libyan airspace. 
Two men, who turned out to be among the leaders of an abortive coup d’état in neighbouring Sudan, were taken off 
the plane, before being returned to Sudan and immediately executed on the orders of the newly restored president, 
Jaafar al-Nimeiri. 
I was 11 (the son of a diplomat and on my way to Sudan for the holidays), and I knew some of what was going on 
because a friend, who for some reason was in first class, told me what had unfolded at the front of the aircraft. I 
recall seeing armed men on the apron. Eventually, the plane  returned to London with the remaining passengers. 
Thinking about it now, I am struck by similarities with the Belarus incident, for which President Alexander 
Lukashenko invented a bogus terrorism threat. In both cases, the government concerned was reported to have sent 
up a fighter jet to force down or “accompany” the airliner to its new destination, supposedly for the safety of the 
passengers. In both cases, the commercial pilot was about to leave the national airspace when ordered to turn 
around.
Belarus hijack echoes events in Libya 50 years ago
In neither case did the pilots at first know the true reason for the forced diversion, although in 1971 the captain 
spoke to the two targeted Sudanese men before the landing and they told him to do nothing that might endanger 
the other passengers, according to  Flight International at the time. 
Sometimes governments kill or detain airline passengers by accident as an unintended byproduct of conflict. 
Among these catastrophes are Malaysia Airlines flight 17, shot down over eastern Ukraine by Russian-backed 
rebels in 2014; the Iran Air Airbus shot down over the Gulf by a US warship in 1988; and Korean Air flight 007 shot 
down by Soviet jets after it strayed into forbidden airspace in 1983. In all three cases, all on board were killed. 
As a journalist covering the Middle East, I was on British Airways flight 149 from London to Kuwait, Madras and 
Kuala Lumpur when it landed in Kuwait in the early hours of August 2 1990. Most of the 385 passengers and crew 
were taken hostage by Saddam Hussein’s Iraqi forces who had invaded Kuwait overnight — except those, like me, 
whose destination was Kuwait itself and who had left the airport by the time the plane was seized. The jetliner was 
later destroyed on the ground. Some hostages were held for months, but all were eventually released. After 10 days 
of reporting, I escaped across the desert to Saudi Arabia.
The Belarus incident is particularly sinister because it shows how far some governments are prepared to go to 
neutralise their opponents. Russia, Iran, Israel and the US have frequently assassinated their enemies in foreign 
countries, while China has kidnapped its opponents and brought them home to be punished. People on commercial 
flights are an easy target for an unscrupulous state. 
No airline pilot could reasonably be expected to call the bluff of a government threatening his aircraft, risking the 
lives of all the passengers and crew — and that is why the Belarus incident is so serious. It undermines the 
accepted notion that people can travel freely between two points without risk of being arrested or killed by the 
government of a country over which they happen to be flying. 
When researching the Libya incident of 1971, I was surprised to find that it is not mentioned in Wikipedia’s “list of 
aircraft hijackings”. Belarus’s diversion of the Ryanair plane is on the list. That is as it should be. A hijack by a 
government is still a hijack.
Letter in response to this column:
 France was the pioneer of the ‘Belarus’ hijack /  From Robert Graham, Paris, France
Load-Date: May 31, 2021
End of Document
Moscow says claims it helped Belarus in Ryanair plot are ‘Russophobia’
Moscow says claims it helped Belarus in Ryanair plot are ‘Russophobia’
 
FT.com
May 25, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 569 words
Byline: Henry Foy in Moscow
Body
Russia has dismissed the notion that it was involved in the plot to force a Ryanair flight to land in Belarus in order to 
detain an opposition activist as “obsessive Russophobia”.
Belarusian authorities on Sunday used a false bomb threat and a MiG-29 fighter jet to force the plane to land in 
Minsk, where dissident journalist Roman Protasevich was detained by police, sparking  widespread international 
condemnation and a pledge of EU sanctions.
Dominic Raab, UK foreign secretary, said on Monday that it was “very difficult to believe that this kind of action 
could have been taken without at least the acquiescence of the authorities in Moscow”, adding that he had “no clear 
details” on the possible involvement of Russia, Belarus’s neighbour and closest ally.
Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, meanwhile said on Tuesday that the EU had not ascertained “any firm 
findings” of a link between the Belarusian actions and Moscow but that she would raise the issue the next time she 
spoke to Russian president, Vladimir Putin.
“When I talk to the Russian President, this issue will certainly be on the agenda,” she said. “But we cannot now 
indulge in speculation. That there is a close relationship between Belarus and Russia, that is known. But as I said, 
no confirmed findings.”
Moscow says claims it helped Belarus in Ryanair plot are ‘Russophobia’
Russia and Belarus have a deeply integrated air defence system, are military allies and their security services have 
a number of co-operation agreements. Russia last month also arrested two Belarusian men who it said were 
plotting a coup against Alexander Lukashenko, the country’s autocratic leader who has been in power since 1994.
The Kremlin has dismissed Raab’s allegations. “This is obsessive Russophobia, this is an obsession with blaming 
Russia for absolutely everything,” Dmitry Peskov, spokesman for president Vladimir Putin, told reporters. “It is 
unfortunate that such politically inappropriate accusations occur.”
In response to the incident, which Ryanair described as an  “act of aviation piracy”, the UK and EU banned 
Belarusian state airline Belavia from using their airports and called for European airlines to avoid Belarusian 
airspace.
Brussels also said it would impose “targeted” economic sanctions against Minsk. 
Peskov said that the restrictions imposed on Belarus were too hasty, given that a full investigation into the incident 
had not yet taken place.
“There is probably no point in trying to explain anything, here phobia and obsession begin to take their toll and the 
authors of these statements are not given the opportunity to soberly assess the situation,” he added.
The Kremlin’s comments came after Russia’s foreign ministry on Monday defended Minsk’s actions, and accused 
its critics of hypocrisy, citing other examples of planes being diverted by western nations to arrest wanted people.
Russian state media has also defended Minsk’s actions. Margarita Simonyan, head of state-funded television 
network RT, said Lukashenko had “pulled it off beautifully”.
Moscow on Tuesday also denied news reports that said four Russian nationals had left the plane in Minsk and not 
carried on to its intended destination of Vilnius.
Maria Zakharova, spokeswoman for Russia’s foreign ministry, said only one Russian national, Protasevich’s 
girlfriend Sofia Sapega, remained in Minsk, and that the others who disembarked were from Greece and Belarus. 
The flight originated in Athens and was en route to Vilnius when it put down.
Load-Date: May 25, 2021
End of Document
EU agrees sanctions on Belarus for forcing down flight
EU agrees sanctions on Belarus for forcing down flight
 
FT.com
May 25, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 980 words
Byline: Michael Peel and Sam Fleming in Brussels and James Shotter in Warsaw
Body
Brussels agreed to ramp up sanctions against Belarus and ban its state airline from EU airports after the Minsk 
regime triggered global uproar by intercepting a Ryanair flight carrying an opposition activist. 
Alexander Lukashenko, the Belarusian president, meanwhile, signed a series of laws that gave authorities the 
power to suspend telecoms networks, block media outlets and ban unauthorised opinion polls. All mass events also 
now have to be authorised.
Belarus’s tightening of social restrictions came as European leaders agreed on Monday to “targeted” economic 
measures expected to be aimed at companies and oligarchs accused of financing Lukashenko’s 27-year rule.
At a meeting in Brussels on Monday night, the bloc called for the immediate release of Roman Protasevich, a 
leading activist, and his partner, Sofia Sapega, who were on the flight from Athens to Vilnius and detained in Minsk 
on Sunday after authorities forced the aircraft to land. 
The actions were condemned by western countries and raised fears that other authoritarian regimes may try to 
weaponise the skies. The Belarusian foreign ministry branded the criticism as “baseless” and its close ally Russia 
called the EU response “shocking”.
A pro-Lukashenko channel on the messaging app Telegram published the first footage of Protasevich since his 
arrest as the EU leaders were meeting. The activist appeared dishevelled and said he was in a jail in Minsk but 
claimed he was being treated well, despite the bruises visible on his face. 
EU agrees sanctions on Belarus for forcing down flight
“I am also co-operating with the investigation and giving evidence of my guilt in organising mass disturbances,” he 
said. He faces 15 years in prison over the charges.
The EU leaders called for the sanctions to be prepared “without delay”. Targeting oligarchs would hurt Lukashenko 
and his allies while avoiding more sweeping sanctions that could harm ordinary Belarusians, diplomats said. 
Belarusian airlines will be barred from the bloc’s airspace and airports and the leaders urged EU airlines to stop 
flying over the country. 
EU countries also called on the International Civil Aviation Organization to launch an investigation. The UN body, 
which agrees standards for civil aviation, has called a meeting for this Thursday. 
Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president, said Belarus had used control of its airspace to 
perpetrate a “state hijacking”.
“This is an attack on democracy; this is an attack on freedom of expression; and this is an attack on European 
sovereignty. This outrageous behaviour needs a strong answer.” 
Joe Biden, the US president, praised Brussels’ actions and hinted that Washington would follow suit. “I welcome the 
news that the EU has called for targeted economic sanctions and other measures, and have asked my team to 
develop appropriate options to hold accountable those responsible, in close co-ordination with the EU, other allies 
and partners and international organisations,” he said. 
Jen Psaki, White House press secretary, had earlier joined the international condemnation, saying the US had 
conveyed its concerns to Russia as well as Belarus directly.
Ryanair branded the affair an “act of aviation piracy”. Several European airlines, including Latvia’s airBaltic and 
Scandinavia’s SAS, said they would stop using Belarusian air space even before the EU decision. 
Dominic Raab, Britain’s foreign secretary, described the forced landing and detentions as a “danger to civilian 
flights everywhere”, as the UK joined the EU in barring Belarusian airlines and warning carriers to avoid its 
airspace.
Franak Viacorka, an aide to Belarus’s exiled opposition leader, Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, urged further sanctions 
on lucrative oil and potash sectors, crucial providers of revenue for Lukashenko’s regime.
Relations between Brussels and Minsk deteriorated after last year’s presidential polls, which were widely viewed as  
rigged in favour of Lukashenko, and an ensuing crackdown that forced many close to Tsikhanouskaya to flee to 
Vilnius. European leaders imposed new sanctions on Lukashenko and other regime members in December. 
Belarus is part of the “Eastern Partnership”, an agreement the EU has with six states close to Russia’s border that 
allows the countries privileges such as a visa facilitation agreement launched last year. The EU had once hoped to 
draw Minsk from  the Kremlin’s orbit but that ambition appears doomed after Sunday’s events.
Belarusian media said Lukashenko gave the order to divert Ryanair flight FR4978. It was carrying 171 passengers 
and was abruptly rerouted to the Belarusian capital shortly before it was about to leave the country’s airspace.
Belarusian officials said a MiG-29 fighter jet had been scrambled to escort the airliner to Minsk following a bomb 
scare, which they later conceded was “false”.
Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, said Belarus’s explanations for the landing of the aircraft were “completely 
implausible”.
Anatoly Glaz, the Belarus foreign spokesman, said aviation authorities had acted “in complete accordance with 
established international rules”. Glaz accused EU countries of “rushing to make openly warlike statements”.
EU agrees sanctions on Belarus for forcing down flight
Russia’s foreign ministry echoed the Belarusian attack on western countries’ responses to the incident, accusing 
them of hypocrisy.
“It is shocking that the west calls the incident in the airspace of Belarus ‘shocking’,” Maria Zakharova, the ministry’s 
spokeswoman, wrote in a post on her Facebook page, citing other examples of planes being diverted by western 
nations to arrest wanted people.
Additional reporting by Jasmine Cameron-Chileshe and Philip Georgiadis in London,Erika Solomon in Berlin, 
Katrina Manson and James Politi in Washington, Richard Milne in Oslo, Roman Olearchyk in Kyiv and Max Seddon 
in Moscow
Letter in response to this article:
 Obama’s action against Morales was air piracy too /  From George Horsington, Edlibach, Switzerland
Load-Date: May 26, 2021
End of Document
EU leaders agree swift retaliation after Belarus intercepts Ryanair flight
EU leaders agree swift retaliation after Belarus intercepts Ryanair flight
 
FT.com
May 25, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1557 words
Byline: Valentina Pop, Europe Express editor
Body
Good morning and welcome to Europe Express. 
EU leaders agreed to  impose new sanctions on Belarus and ban its national airline from the bloc’s airspace and 
airports after Minsk intercepted a Ryanair flight to arrest an opposition activist. 
We will be looking at how substantive the EU’s uncharacteristically swift response to Minsk’s provocation is. The 
devil will be in the detail and the detail is not set yet. Leaders will reconvene this morning to talk Covid-19 and the 
contentious topic of how to reach the bloc’s climate goals. 
We will also dive into the troubled waters the German Green party has found itself in and explore what this may 
mean for Annalena Baerbock, its first-ever chancellor candidate.
And as today marks the first anniversary of George Floyd’s murder, we take a look at new figures on police 
discrimination in the EU. 
Striking back at Minsk 
A favourite pastime in the Belgian capital is lamenting the EU’s perennial inability to move rapidly and decisively on 
foreign policy matters, write Sam Fleming and Mehreen Khan in Brussels. 
But once in a while, the bloc manages to prove its critics wrong. Monday was an example of that (or of low 
expectations) as EU leaders used a summit that had been scheduled before the Belarus crisis to come up with a  
rapid response to the diversion of a Ryanair flight from Athens to Vilnius by Minsk. 
EU leaders agree swift retaliation after Belarus intercepts Ryanair flight
The package agreed by leaders has several elements: 
•
It calls for ministers to move quickly to adopt new “targeted economic sanctions” as well as accelerate an 
existing package of measures that was already under discussion 
•
It urges EU airlines not to use Belarus’s airspace
•
The EU will ban Belarusian airlines from entering its airspace or landing at its airports
•
It calls for the release of  Roman Protasevich, the leading opposition activist, and Sofia Sapega, his 
partner, who were on the Ryanair flight, as well as an international investigation of the incident.
The measures will enable the EU to expand the scale and scope of its sanctions on Belarus, allowing the bloc to 
target oligarchs and companies seen as offering crucial funding to the regime. The hope is that this will intensify the 
pressure on President Alexander Lukashenko by undercutting his domestic power. 
But the full impact of the mooted sanctions will only become apparent after officials in Brussels draw up the details 
of the proposed measures in the coming days. This will involve striking a delicate balance between hitting essential 
business interests with links to the regime without creating excessive damage to the broader economy. Ursula von 
der Leyen, European Commission president, said the measures would target economic entities and businesses that 
prop up the regime. 
The demands for tougher measures were made by a host of countries, led by Lithuania with notable allies in the 
Nordics, the Netherlands and Baltic states. “Immediate is now the keyword for success,” said Lithuania’s president 
Gitanas Nauseda.
As leaders were holed up in Brussels’ Europa building until 1am — and forced to relinquish their mobile phones — 
footage emerged on Belarusian-backed online channels of a visibly bruised Protasevich.  In this clip, he is heard 
confessing to organising the mass protests that followed last year’s disputed presidential election. 
The brazen nature of Lukashenko’s action against the dissident prompted widespread condemnation, including 
from the US and UK. EU leaders are well-aware of the risk of allowing his  unprecedented move to go unanswered: 
encouraging authoritarian regimes to believe they can weaponise control of their airspace with impunity. 
Annalena in trouble
Joschka Fischer, the German Green party’s first-ever foreign minister, once called the chancellery the “death zone 
of politics”. Now, Annalena Baerbock, the party’s first-ever chancellor-candidate, may be getting a sense of what he 
meant, writes Erika Solomon in Berlin. 
The Greens know they often suffer from rising polling numbers that crash on election day. Yet hopes grew of having 
an impact after they nominated Baerbock last month. Not only did the party overtake Angela Merkel’s Christian 
Democrats in nearly every poll, Baerbock outperformed the CDU’s Armin Laschet and the Social Democrat’s Olaf 
Scholz, her two rivals to succeed the chancellor, in some of them.
But Baerbock’s stumbles since coming under greater scrutiny show how tricky it gets at the top.
It was revealed last week that Baerbock failed to report €25,000 worth of bonus payments from her party. She 
apologised for the “stupid oversight” but rivals took the opportunity to skewer her — particularly over bonuses given 
to reward improved election performances, which other parties said they do not do.
“The fact that the capitalist-critic Greens are paying their leaders bonuses for successes is grotesque,” Markus 
Blume, the secretary-general of the Christian Social Union, told Bild. He accused them of “hypocrisy and double 
standards”.
German media editorials also called it a bad look for the party that touts its moral politics and transparency.
Then there was Baerbock’s  call to outlaw short-distance flights, which also raised  howls of derision.
EU leaders agree swift retaliation after Belarus intercepts Ryanair flight
At the same time, public frustration over management of the pandemic, which likely helped knock the CDU from its 
top polling position, is now fading as vaccination rates climb and infection rates fall.
Baerbock’s ratings have slipped. An Insa  poll published by Bild showed 20 per cent of voters would back if 
elections were held, a fall of 4 percentage points but still ahead of Laschet and Scholz. But another  poll by the 
Wahlen research group, published by the broadcaster ZDF, put Baerbock last.
It is still four months before voters go to the polls. But at this rate, Baerbock risks not just losing her lead but also 
her lustre. 
Chart du jour: The ECB’s bond headache
Borrowing costs in the eurozone are rising, with Italian and German bond yields edging up. The increase will 
complicate the European Central Bank’s decision on whether to slow the purchase of bonds with a European 
recovery on the horizon. (  Find out more)
Racial profiling 
A year after the death of  George Floyd, an African-American man who was murdered by a Minneapolis police 
officer, sparked protests against police violence and systemic racism around the world, the EU Agency for 
Fundamental Rights in Vienna is releasing a  report on how minorities in Europe are treated by the law 
enforcement. 
Its conclusion: racial profiling is widespread across the bloc, with police officers most often stopping or searching 
young men, members of ethnic minorities, Muslims or people who do not identify as heterosexual. 
Police officers searched or asked 34 per cent of people from ethnic minorities for their identity papers, compared 
with 14 per cent of the general population, the report found.  
In Austria, the stop and search rate for people from sub-Saharan African countries was as high as 49 per cent. 
Immigrants and descendants of immigrants from South Asia felt most racially profiled in Greece (89 per cent), and 
Roma people said the same of the Netherlands (86 per cent) and Portugal (84 per cent).
When it comes to how people rate their experience, about 80 per cent of the general population said police treated 
them respectfully during the stop. 
But just 46 per cent of respondents among minority groups said this was the case during their encounters with the 
police. In the Netherlands, 3 per cent of the Roma surveyed said they were treated respectfully compared with 76 
per cent of the general population. 
In Portugal, the figure for Roma was 10 per cent and in Italy, 29 per cent of descendants of immigrants or 
immigrants from north African countries, compared with about 90 per cent of the general population.
The agency reminds EU member states that they have legal obligations to fight discrimination and steer clear from 
ethnic profiling in police actions. But governments have shown little interest in heeding this call.
Two things to watch today 
•
EU leaders meet for a second day in Brussels to discuss climate targets and Covid-19 policies
•
First anniversary of George Floyd’s death 
Notable, Quotable 
•
With France taking over the EU presidency in 2022 and looming elections, President Emmanuel Macron 
has floated the idea of topping up the EU’s €800bn Recovery Fund. But in Brussels, officials say this 
proposal is coming too soon, as the money has not even started flowing yet. (  Find out more)
EU leaders agree swift retaliation after Belarus intercepts Ryanair flight
•
Eutelsat has jeopardised its involvement in a new EU space-based internet service by investing alongside 
the UK government in OneWeb, the satellite broadband company, the EU’s internal market commissioner 
Thierry Breton  has warned.
•
Concerns are growing about political interference in Polish state-owned companies, after Zbigniew Jagiello 
abruptly  resigned as chief executive of PKO Bank Polski allegedly due to pressure from the country’s 
ruling Law and Justice party. 
•
As the Vatican faces financial problems, Pope Francis asks if the Vatican’s costly news outlets, including 
L’Osservatore Romano, are worth the money,  AP reports.
FT Event: Future of Asset Management Europe
On May 27-28, Europe’s asset and wealth managers will explore how funds are adapting to a new digital way of 
working while building business models that allow them to harness opportunities for economic recovery. Register  
here.
Load-Date: May 26, 2021
End of Document
Belarus gave EU a test it could not afford to fail
Belarus gave EU a test it could not afford to fail
 
FT.com
May 25, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 697 words
Byline: Ben Hall, Europe editor
Body
For once, the EU  response was swift and assertive. European leaders meeting in Brussels on Monday evening 
probably exceeded expectations with their riposte to the  forced diversion of a Ryanair flight on the orders of 
Belarusian president Alexander Lukashenko. Not only did they close European airports to Belarus’ national airline 
and instruct their own carriers to avoid its airspace, they opened the way to targeted economic sanctions, a step 
they had so far been reluctant take.
The EU has often appeared hesitant and  weak when dealing with foreign autocrats, especially Russian president 
Vladimir Putin, who now holds Lukashenko on a tight leash. It imposed a travel ban and asset freezes on a handful 
of Russian officials responsible for crushing domestic political opposition. It did nothing in response to Russia’s 
massive military build-up on Ukraine’s borders earlier this year, or to recent evidence of Russian involvement in 
explosions at a  Czech arms depot in 2014. 
Lukashenko’s act was a test the EU could not afford to fail. It was also an easy one to pass. “The low expectations 
speak volumes,” said Rosa Balfour, director of Carnegie Europe, a think-tank. 
A fortuitously timed summit brought EU leaders together for deliberations and compelled them to come up with a 
unified response. Belarus’s blatant breach of international aviation law provided a sure legal footing for action, a 
constant preoccupation for the EU. 
“I had no doubt the EU would have a strong reaction,” said Kadri Liik of the European Council on Foreign Relations. 
“It was such a clear-cut case. And there are tools to react.” 
Belarus gave EU a test it could not afford to fail
Moreover, the interception of a European airliner carrying mostly EU passengers between two EU capitals was, as 
European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen put it, an attack on European sovereignty. It transcended 
the divisive question of how to affect the course of domestic affairs in non-democratic countries, for which the EU 
often lacks real leverage.
“It is much harder for Europe to impact the situation inside Belarus,” said Liik. “Lukashenko is fighting for his political 
life.”
The promise of tougher EU sanctions still needs to be put into action and the process could easily become bogged 
down. The bloc needs to work out how to target officials, businesspeople, state entities and companies linked to the 
regime while minimising the impact on ordinary Belarusians. And the penalties have to be legally watertight. 
Sanctions must also be approved unanimously by EU foreign affairs ministers. Cyprus last year  blocked sanctions 
on Belarus for three months as it sought to push the EU to adopt a tougher line on Turkey. Hungary is also a 
potential obstacle. Its readiness to veto EU diplomatic statements — including condemnation of democratic 
backsliding in Hong Kong and an appeal for a ceasefire in the recent conflict between Israel and Hamas — has 
caused  consternation in EU capitals. 
So far, on the bigger decisions, Budapest has fallen into line. But, as the historian Eva Balogh  notes, most national 
capitals wield the veto to protect their national interests, whereas Hungary seems to do it to serve the interests of 
other countries. The support of Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orban cannot be taken for granted.
The bigger problem for EU foreign policy is  Russia, where the bloc lacks a strategy for advancing its interests. The 
relationship is shaped by sanctions and the deadlocked peace talks over the war in eastern Ukraine. Both 
mechanisms are frozen. 
French president Emmanuel Macron has failed to win over other countries to his idea for a new dialogue with the 
Kremlin. Poland, the Baltic states and Sweden see Russia as an existential threat while others see it is as a 
commercial and geopolitical opportunity. “What the EU really needs to do is reconcile these threat perceptions, but 
it has been unable to,” said Balfour.
The EU-Russia relationship was “inevitably rooted in the world order and the values that underpin it, and both are in 
flux,” said Liik. 
Putin’s meeting with US president Joe Biden in Geneva next month will be the moment to gauge the chances of a 
reset. The EU will then be back in the role of bystander.
Load-Date: May 26, 2021
End of Document
Belarus opposition calls for EU sanctions on oil and petrochemicals
Belarus opposition calls for EU sanctions on oil and petrochemicals
 
FT.com
May 25, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 566 words
Byline: James Shotter in Warsaw, Max Seddon in Moscow and Michael Peel in Brussels
Body
The opposition to the Belarus regime has urged Brussels to prohibit EU dealings with two dozen state-owned 
Belarusian companies, block key exports from Minsk and ban new foreign investment into the country in retaliation 
for the interception of a Ryanair flight and the arrest of an activist.
EU sanctions should target the country’s oil, petrochemicals, potash fertilisers, metals and wood industries, which 
together account for about half its merchandise exports, according to a document circulated by the Belarusian 
opposition and seen by the Financial Times.
The EU is Belarus’s second main trade partner, representing almost a fifth of the country’s business in goods. Last 
year, it exported about €4bn of goods to the EU and imported slightly more than €6bn, according to  EU data. 
Russia is Belarus’s largest trade partner, with an almost 50 per cent share.
Brussels is under pressure to announce a detailed list of  sanctions after president Alexander Lukashenko’s regime 
triggered a global uproar by diverting Ryanair flight FR4978 that carried dissident  Roman Protasevich and his 
girlfriend Sofia Sapega.
The opposition wants the bloc to ban EU companies from dealing with groups including Belarus’s largest potash 
producer Belaruskali, fertiliser maker Grodno Azot, oil group Belneftekhim, several refiners and six banks. 
The document also proposes a moratorium on new foreign investment in Belarus and on new credit lines for the 
country’s banks. About €400m of money from the EU was invested in Belarus in 2019.
Belarus opposition calls for EU sanctions on oil and petrochemicals
EU countries, the UK, and Ukraine all agreed on Monday to ban Belarusian airlines from their airspace. By 
Tuesday, EU airlines also stopped flying over the country.
However, the final decision on EU sanctions will rest with member states. Some, notably Germany, are reluctant to 
pass sanctions on whole economic sectors over concerns about their effectiveness and durability against legal 
challenges. 
Belarus’s state-owned industries are a crucial source of hard currency for Lukashenko’s regime. Belneftekhim made 
$4.2bn from export revenues from January to the end of November last year, while Belaruskali, which accounts for 
about 20 per cent of the global potash market, sold $2.4bn abroad last year.
Some of them have already come under pressure after the US resumed sanctions on nine companies in April, 
including Belneftekhim and Naftan, the country’s largest oil refinery.
“It would be good if the EU took these companies as a starting point, because these companies don’t really trade so 
much with the US, so the impact of the US sanctions is still quite limited,” said Katia Glod, a non-resident fellow at 
the Center for European Policy Analysis, a think-tank. 
“But if the EU joined, and European companies and banks that trade with these companies, that would hit Belarus 
quite painfully.”
Belarus’s hard currency reserves have fallen more than 25 per cent in more than a year to $6.9bn as of April, of 
which just $2.8bn is liquid. Yields on the country’s 10-year sovereign bonds increased 2 per cent on Tuesday.
The Belarus opposition is also pushing for the EU to respond to the wave of arrests, show trials and torture by 
pushing for the country’s suspension from Interpol and placing an embargo on exports of goods that could be used 
for oppression, such as riot gear and surveillance software, according to the document.
Additional reporting by Victor Mallet in Paris
Load-Date: May 26, 2021
End of Document
Belarus arrests activist after forcing Ryanair flight to land in Minsk
Belarus arrests activist after forcing Ryanair flight to land in Minsk
 
FT.com
May 24, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 838 words
Byline: James Shotter in Warsaw, Max Seddon in Moscow, Richard Milne in Oslo and Michael Peel in Brussels
Body
US and European leaders condemned a move by Belarus to force a Ryanair flight bound for Lithuania to land in 
Minsk so that it could arrest a leading opposition activist who was travelling from Athens to Vilnius. 
State media said Roman Protasevich, resident in Lithuania, was detained in the Belarusian capital on Sunday after 
Ryanair flight FR4978 was diverted to Minsk shortly before it was due to leave Belarusian airspace. 
Alexander Lukashenko, Belarus’s president, gave an “irrevocable command to turn the plane around and land it”, 
according to a post on a semi-official presidential channel on messaging app Telegram.
Protasevich, 26, is the former editor of  Nexta, a Warsaw-based media group that played a prominent role in 
covering and directing the  huge protests that erupted against Lukashenko last year after the dictator claimed 
victory in a  deeply flawed election.
Lukashenko has embarked on a sweeping crackdown to shore up his power, with opposition activists and 
independent journalists among those targeted. In November, Belarus placed Protasevich on a terrorist watchlist and 
charged him with three protest-related crimes, the most serious of which carries a sentence of up to 15 years in 
prison.
According to messages sent by Protasevich to colleagues on Sunday, he said he was being followed by a man he 
suspected was a Belarusian KGB agent while in the departure lounge in Athens. The man stood behind him in the 
Belarus arrests activist after forcing Ryanair flight to land in Minsk
queue to board and tried to take a photo of his documents, the activist told his colleagues. Protasevich said the man 
then asked him a “stupid question” in Russian and left. 
The Ryanair flight that Protasevich boarded turned round near the Lithuanian border and landed in Minsk, 
according to flight-tracking data. Andrei Gurtsevich, a senior air force commander, said Belarus had decided to 
scramble a MiG-29 fighter jet to accompany the plane after learning of a bomb threat, according to Belta, the state 
news agency. Airport officials later said the bomb threat was “false”.
Ryanair said the flight crew were “notified by Belarus [air traffic control] of a potential security threat on board” and 
instructed to divert to Minsk.
“Nothing untoward was found and authorities cleared the aircraft to depart together with passengers and crew after 
approximately seven hours on the ground in Minsk,” the company stated. Ryanair “notified the relevant national and 
European safety and security agencies”.
The news sparked furious responses from world leaders and Belarus’s opposition. 
The US condemned the diversion and demanded the release of Protasevich. Antony Blinken, US secretary of state, 
said: “Given indications the forced landing was based on false pretences, we support the earliest possible meeting 
of the council of the International Civil Aviation Organization to review these events.”
He added that the US was coordinating with partners “on next steps”.
European officials pledged to discuss “possible sanctions” at an EU meeting on Monday and also demanded 
Protasevich be released. Nato branded the incident “serious and dangerous”.
Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president, said the forced landing was “utterly unacceptable”. 
“Any violation of international air transport rules must bear consequences,” she wrote on Twitter. 
Mateusz Morawiecki, Poland’s prime minister, said he would call for “immediate sanctions” against Belarus. 
“Hijacking of a civilian plane is an unprecedented act of state terrorism. It cannot go unpunished,” he wrote on 
Twitter.
Lithuania called on the EU to declare Belarusian airspace unsafe and refuse to allow its aircraft to land at the bloc’s 
airports.
Gabrielus Landsbergis, the country’s foreign minister, said the episode constituted “a serious violation of 
international norms”. 
“The entire EU has been brutally attacked and must respond in the strictest way.”
 Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, Belarus’s exiled opposition leader, wrote on Twitter that “no one flying over Belarus can 
be secure”.
Belarusian state television said officials initially did not know Protasevich was on the flight, claiming that he 
remained in the airport undetected until his girlfriend sent a photo of him to another dissident blogger.
But a fellow passenger told Lithuanian news site Delfi that Protasevich began panicking when he realised the plane 
was heading for Minsk, holding his head in his hands.
Once the plane landed, officials immediately detained Protasevich, who was visibly trembling, and seized his 
luggage, according to the unnamed passenger.
“We asked him what was happening. He said who he was and added: ‘They’ll execute me here’,” Delfi quoted the 
passenger as saying. 
Belarus arrests activist after forcing Ryanair flight to land in Minsk
Nexta has provoked Lukashenko’s ire for publishing leaks from official sources and its coverage of the president’s 
brutal crackdown on hundreds of thousands of Belarusians who took to the streets following last year’s election. Its 
channel on Telegram has more than 1.2m subscribers, a huge audience in a country of just 9.5m people.
Additional reporting by Katrina Manson in Washington
Load-Date: May 27, 2021
End of Document
Belarus kidnapping sets a dangerous global precedent
Belarus kidnapping sets a dangerous global precedent
 
FT.com
May 24, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 880 words
Byline: Gideon Rachman
Body
The “rules-based international order” is a dull phrase beloved by diplomats that can sound like a meaningless 
cliché. Boris Johnson, Britain’s prime minister, even briefly considered instructing his officials to stop using the term.
But if anyone doubts the need for a rules-based international order, they should consider what has just happened to 
Ryanair flight FR4978 from Greece to Lithuania. The plane was crossing Belarus when it was  forced to land in 
Minsk — allowing the government there to detain Roman Protasevich, a prominent Belarusian journalist, who has 
chronicled the brutal repression in his home country. The arrest was apparently made on the direct orders of 
Alexander Lukashenko, Belarus’s president — who has been fighting for his political life since stealing his country’s  
presidential election last year.
Belarus is a small country with a population of just under 10m. But this hijacking and kidnap by the Lukashenko 
regime sets a dangerous global precedent. It will be watched closely by much larger countries that also like to 
pursue their domestic enemies overseas — in particular Russia (which is Belarus’s closest ally), China and Iran. 
Passengers flying from Europe to Asia will often have glanced at their flight maps and realised that they are 
crossing over Russia or Iran. What was once an interesting geographical observation may now be a cause for slight 
concern. If even tiny Belarus can demand that a plane divert to Minsk, what is to stop the Iranians from compelling 
a plane to land in Tehran, or the Russians from forcing a jet down over Siberia?
Once the precedent is established, the potential threat will extend well beyond countries’ own citizens — and even 
beyond their own borders. Those who have wondered why it is worth disputing China’s claim to sovereignty over 
Belarus kidnapping sets a dangerous global precedent
the whole of the South China Sea may now understand the point better. Roughly one-third of the world’s  maritime 
trade crosses those waters. If China could claim the right to intercept any ship or plane crossing the South China 
Sea, it would have a stranglehold over global trade.
The threat of detention extends not just to Chinese, Russian or Iranian dissidents living abroad. Potentially, it 
extends to foreigners who have displeased those regimes. The Russian government has made persistent efforts to 
secure the  arrest of Bill Browder, a US-born British investor who drove the successful campaign to impose “  
Magnitsky sanctions” on Moscow.
One of the Europeans sanctioned by China recently told me that he was not concerned by his inability to travel to 
China itself. But he did worry that Beijing might try to arrange for his arrest, in transit, in a third country. “After all,” 
as my contact put it, “they’ll think that’s the kind of thing that superpowers do.”
That thought raises the unfortunate precedent set by the US through its policies of drone strikes and “  extraordinary 
renditions”, during its “war on terror”. The Americans can point out that this kind of treatment was reserved for those 
who used or planned actual violence against the US or its allies. But, to invert the old saying, one man’s freedom 
fighter is another man’s terrorist. Belarus had placed Protasevich on a terrorist watchlist.
Nobody reasonable should accept the Belarusian (or Chinese or Russian) equation of peaceful dissent with 
terrorism. But America has encouraged the idea that powerful countries can reach out beyond their borders and 
grab people. 
Those powers are alarming even when exercised by the US — a law-governed country committed to freedom of 
speech. When they are claimed by one-party states, dictatorships and assorted strongman leaders around the 
globe, they are a recipe for a much more dangerous and lawless world. 
The disturbing reality is that authoritarian countries are increasingly resorting to what Freedom House, a US-based 
pro-democracy organisation, calls in a  report released in February, “transnational repression”. 
The report pointed to six countries that use methods such as “assassinations, illegal deportations [and] abductions” 
to silence dissent overseas: China, Turkey, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Russia and Iran — with China highlighted as the 
country that conducts the “most sophisticated, global and comprehensive campaign of transnational repression in 
the world”. The victims of these campaigns include  Gui Minhai, a Chinese-born Swedish citizen, who had published 
books on the private lives of prominent members of the Chinese Communist party. He was kidnapped in Thailand in 
2015 and later sent to prison in China. Another is  Paul Rusesabagina, a Rwandan political activist, kidnapped in 
Dubai in 2020, and then put on trial in Rwanda on terrorism charges.
The action taken by Belarus represents a flagrant escalation of this trend. But this dangerous moment also 
represents an opportunity to arrest the slide into international lawlessness. 
The EU, the US, the UK and others should now act together to ensure that Belarus’s move is seen to have 
consequences — for example by announcing that Belarusian airspace is unsafe and then banning international 
flights in or out of the country. If Lukashenko behaves like an international outlaw, he should be treated as one. It is 
time to defend international law and order, before it is too late.
Load-Date: May 24, 2021
End of Document
How Roman Protasevich became one of Lukashenko’s prized targets
How Roman Protasevich became one of Lukashenko’s prized targets
 
FT.com
May 24, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 945 words
Byline: James Shotter in Warsaw and Max Seddon in Moscow
Body
Roman Protasevich’s involvement in the anti-Lukashenko movement began years before last summer’s mass 
protests, which were triggered by the Belarusian president’s decision to cling to power after contested elections.
Franak Viacorka, an aide to Belarus’s exiled opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, first came across the 26-
year-old activist in 2011, long before he became the focus of last weekend’s dramatic Ryanair flight diversion. Back 
then, Protasevich was just one fresh-faced teenager taking part in anti-regime demonstrations.
In the following years, though, Protasevich rose to become a prominent opposition voice by working for a variety of 
media groups in his home country, including Radio Free Europe, and becoming the editor of  Nexta, one of 
Belarus’s main independent media groups.
“Many Belarusian activists realised 10 years ago that activism was not enough to win, and that in journalism you 
can do much more. At the same time, journalism cannot win alone. And this hybrid type of media activist appeared 
and Roman was one of them,” said Viacorka.
“He is impulsive. He is creative. He cannot accept injustice,” he added.
Now Protasevich finds himself at the centre of a global diplomatic dispute pitting Belarus against the EU, the UK 
and the US, after the Vilnius-bound plane he boarded in Athens on Sunday was diverted over Belarusian airspace 
at the order of Lukashenko himself. The activist was arrested as soon as the plane landed in Minsk.
How Roman Protasevich became one of Lukashenko’s prized targets
“Looks like the [Belarus’s KGB] were following me in the airport,” he told his friends via a messaging app before 
boarding. “In any case — suspicious shit.”
The interception, which has drawn  international condemnation and marks a worsening in relations between the 
Belarusian regime and the west, has underscored the lengths to which Lukashenko is prepared to go to silence his 
critics as he seeks to reassert control in the wake of huge protests last year. 
Protasevich, who left Belarus in 2019 and now lives in Vilnius, was put on Belarus’s terror watchlist in November 
and was charged with three protest-related crimes, the most serious of which carries a sentence of up to 15 years 
in prison. 
Belarus’s security services have been ordered to track down the main protagonists of anti-regime protests “in any 
way”, according to Dzianis Melyantsou, an expert at the Minsk Dialogue Council on International Relations. 
“The goal is pretty obvious: to show that going forward, if you value your life you can’t do anything of the sort in 
Belarus ever again,” he said.
It was at Nexta that Protasevich’s twin roles as activist and journalist reached their widest audience. As Lukashenko 
intensified his crackdown on the protests that erupted against him last summer, Nexta’s channels — among the few 
to dodge an internet blackout — became a key source of information about what was actually happening. Nexta’s 
Telegram channels have more than 1.2m subscribers, in a country of 9.4m.
“My son was always someone who had a strong reaction against lies. That’s why he became a journalist,” his 
father, Dmitry Protasevich, told the FT. “The whole problem is that the authorities are scared of even the tiniest 
freedom of speech, criticism, or independent media that tell the truth.”
Nexta did not just report on the protests. It also helped co-ordinate them, providing protesters with everything from 
information about where to gather, what to wear and how to evade security forces. As editor in chief, Protasevich 
was at the heart of these activities, Nexta’s founder Stsiapan Putsila told the FT.
“Now the regime is taking revenge,” Putsila said. 
In recent months, Belarusian authorities have stepped up repression against journalists from independent 
publications with readership beyond the urban middle class that makes up the core of the protests.
Last week, Belarus blocked Tut.by, the most popular independent news site, and charged 15 staffers with tax 
evasion. Several local newspapers were banned from publishing print versions and thus reaching Belarus’ working 
class, Lukashenko’s historical support base.
Protasevich probably became an even greater target after he quit Nexta last September to try to reach these rural 
Belarusians, Igor Trushkevich, a Belarusian dissident living in exile in Ukraine, told the FT. Protasevich has since 
been in charge of Belamova, another opposition news channel on the Telegram messaging app, with 260,000 
subscribers.
Lukashenko’s regime made it clear it was targeting dissidents abroad in April when Russia’s FSB — the successor 
to the Soviet KGB — arrested two opposition figures in Moscow and handed them over to Belarus. 
A senior Belarusian official then vowed to “find and purge” dissidents abroad: “We remind our out-of-control, 
bloodthirsty opposition that we know them all,” deputy interior minister Nikolai Karpenkov said. “We know where 
they are, who they talk to, where their home is, and where their families are.” He added: “Let them know that 
vengeance is inevitable.”
The arrest of Protasevich has sent a jolt of anxiety through Belarus’s opposition in exile — not least because 
Tsikhanouskaya and some of her team had taken the same aerial route from Athens back to their base in the 
Lithuanian capital Vilnius a week earlier.
How Roman Protasevich became one of Lukashenko’s prized targets
“It’s shocking, it’s devastating, it changes a lot . . . It mobilises the international community, but I am afraid that 
tomorrow the international community will forget,” said Viacorka.
“If the Europeans don’t want North Korea in the centre of Europe, if they don’t want aeroplanes with passengers to 
be shot down, they should react . . . It’s no longer a matter of Belarusian domestic policy, it is an issue of European 
security now.”
Load-Date: May 25, 2021
End of Document
Lukashenko’s air piracy must be punished
Lukashenko’s air piracy must be punished
 
FT.com
May 24, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 691 words
Byline: The editorial board
Body
Even by the thuggish if capricious standards of Belarus dictator Alexander Lukashenko, the  forced diversion of a 
Ryanair flight in order to arrest one of its passengers is an outrage. The Boeing 737 flying from Athens to Vilnius on 
Sunday was rerouted to Minsk after being notified of a bomb threat invented by the Belarusian authorities. A 
Belarusian fighter jet was scrambled to ensure the airliner complied. When it landed in Minsk, the authorities 
arrested  Roman Protasevich, a Belarusian journalist and opposition activist, on terrorism charges. The operation, 
which Belarusian media said Lukashenko personally ordered, amounts to nothing less than state piracy. It demands 
a swift and robust riposte.
Western powers, and particularly the EU, have struggled to muster an adequate response to Lukashenko’s theft of 
last year’s presidential election and repression of the pro-democracy movement that erupted in protest. Belarus’ 
limited economic ties to its western neighbours and its heavy dependence on Russia left the EU with little leverage. 
European leaders were rightly wary of imposing sanctions that brought more hardship on the Belarusian people. 
Held back by internal divisions, they have also struggled to take a robust stance on Russian president Vladimir 
Putin’s aggression abroad and crushing of opposition at home. 
But the official hijacking of a European aircraft carrying mostly EU passengers cannot go unpunished. Just as the 
shooting down of Malaysia Airlines MH17 by a Russian missile over Ukraine in 2014 spurred the EU into imposing 
tougher economic sanctions on Moscow, so must this episode  worthy of a rogue state. Additional sanctions against 
Lukashenko and his officials are unlikely to be any more effective than the EU penalties imposed last autumn — a 
slap on the wrist.
Lukashenko’s air piracy must be punished
Stopping flights through Belarusian airspace and banning national flag carrier Belavia from serving European 
destinations — a decision for national capitals — would be a suitable response to Lukashenko’s flagrant breach of 
aviation law. It would of course penalise Belarusians if other carriers were unable to offer replacement services. 
Sanctions should be targeted as much as possible. But it is wealthier, elite Belarusians — often aligned with the 
Lukashenko regime — who enjoy air travel. Conversely, restricting land crossings into the EU, especially to Poland, 
would cut off an existing route for Belarusians looking for work or political freedom. 
Sanctions against Belarusian oligarchs who are helping to prop up Lukashenko’s regime would send a more 
powerful message of disapproval. Crony businessmen will have to pay a price for their support. Even this is 
insufficient. Belarus’ opposition is now calling for wider economic sanctions, including against key exports of fuel 
and potash, which are an important source of revenue for Lukashenko’s rule. The EU, with UK and US support, 
should be prepared to impose them if the oppression of democracy and human rights campaigners does not relent, 
and activists such as Protasevich are not released.
In the past, the argument against sectoral sanctions was that it would drive Belarus further away from the west and 
into Russia’s orbit. That argument no longer applies. Lukashenko survives at Putin’s whim. He is now entirely 
dependent on the Kremlin. That makes it unlikely Moscow had no knowledge of Lukashenko’s hijacking plot; 
suspiciously, several Russian nationals left the Ryanair flight in Minsk. If Russian involvement is demonstrated, 
retaliation will be needed against Moscow as well. Lukashenko’s rogue regime belongs to Putin too.
Letters in response to this editorial comment:
 Extend the sanctions against Lukashenko /  From Natalya Chernyshova, British Academy, Mid-Career Fellow, 
Senior Lecturer in Modern History, University of Winchester, Hampshire, UK
 For authoritarian regimes no holds are barred /   From Guill Gil, London N1, UK
 Imposing potash sanctions risks penalising the poor /  From Charlie Robertson, Global Chief Economist, 
Renaissance Capital, London W1, UK
 Obama’s action against Morales was air piracy too /  From George Horsington, Edlibach, Switzerland
Load-Date: June 3, 2021
End of Document
Greek PM: EU leaders must show unity on Belarus
Greek PM: EU leaders must show unity on Belarus
 
FT.com
May 24, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1759 words
Byline: Valentina Pop, Europe Express editor
Body
Good morning to all Europe watchers. 
Belarus president Alexander Lukashenko sent a shockwave across the continent yesterday by  forcing a Ryanair 
flight from Greece to Lithuania to land in Minsk and arresting a critic who was on board. 
EU leaders are due to meet tonight and tomorrow in Brussels for a European Council summit and we will be looking 
at their options. 
In Athens, Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis told Europe Express that leaders at the summit must agree 
on “clear, specific and robust consequences that leave Belarus in no doubt about our unity and our determination”.
The European Council is also meant to cover topics including Russia, Brexit, and climate change. On the latter 
topic, we look at where the potential for discord lies when it comes to the EU’s proposed emissions targets.
And we also examine the World Health Organization assembly, which is likely to get the ball rolling on a global 
treaty on pandemic preparedness (an idea for which Charles Michel, EU Council President,  takes credit).
Hijacked summit
The EU’s patchy record in presenting a united front on foreign affairs must not be repeated when it comes to 
Belarus’s “unacceptable act of aggression”, Greece’s Mitsotakis told Eleni Varvitsioti in Athens. 
“Our inability to reach a consensus on recent events in Israel and Gaza — where as a union we failed to present a 
unified stance — must not be repeated,” he said. 
Greek PM: EU leaders must show unity on Belarus
Before Israel and Hamas  reached a ceasefire last week to end their latest round of hostilities, the EU was unable to 
issue a joint statement calling for just such a truce due to opposition from Hungary. EU foreign affairs decisions 
require unanimity. 
The Greek prime minister made clear the EU cannot afford to show such disunity over Belarus. 
“The forcible grounding of a commercial passenger aircraft in order to illegally detain a political opponent and 
journalist is utterly reprehensible and an unacceptable act of aggression that cannot be allowed to stand,” 
Mitsotakis said, calling for clear, specific and robust consequences.
“We cannot accept anything else as a Union of principles. Enough is enough.” 
The move by Lukashenko to capture activist Roman Protasevich triggered  widespread condemnation and vows of 
retaliation from other EU leaders. 
It will also accelerate the nosedive in relations between the EU and Belarus, which the European bloc had once 
hoped to attract from Russia’s orbit. 
But what might the EU’s retaliation look like? 
The bloc has already imposed sanctions on the Belarusian strongman and scores of other officials and institutions 
over last year’s disputed presidential election and the political crackdown that followed, write Michael Peel and 
Sam Fleming in Brussels. That reversed a 2016 move by the EU to lift punitive measures on 170 people, including 
Lukashenko, involved in earlier rights abuses.
Further EU sanctions were already being worked up against more Belarus officials before yesterday’s forced 
landing. But they are geared to official repression and would probably also be seen as an inadequate response to 
the latest events. 
The options for EU leaders when they hold their discussions tonight include: 
•
A new set of sanctions responding to the incident 
•
An international inquiry
•
Stopping EU airlines from flying over Belarus
•
Barring Belarus’s airline Belavia from landing at any EU airport
•
Wider restrictions on transit between the country and the EU
Belarus is still part of the “Eastern Partnership” the EU has with the country and five other states close to Russia’s 
border. But yesterday’s incident suggests it has become a partnership barely worthy of the name.
Climate challenges
EU leaders spent their traditional end-of-year Brussels summit last December toiling all night over the bloc’s 
promise to accelerate carbon emission cuts in the next decade. 
Summit organisers were desperate to avoid a repeat of the 10-hour marathon talks this week, so they  scheduled 
the discussion for tomorrows session, writes Mehreen Khan in Brussels.
The run-up to the summit has been dominated by testy talks between EU ambassadors, once again exposing the 
rifts between poorer and richer countries which were laid bare at the end of last year.  Here’s the FT’s take on the 
plethora of topics that have member states at loggerheads. 
At the heart of the EU debate is how to share the burden of an unprecedented programme of decarbonisation over 
the next 30 years. The distributional debates are about the divide between the bloc’s poorer and richer country as 
well as the impact that going green could have on Europe’s most vulnerable households.
Greek PM: EU leaders must show unity on Belarus
Leaders battled over the relatively simple part of setting headline emissions targets in December: reducing carbon 
dioxide emissions by 55 per cent by 2030 and achieving net zero output by 2050. Now, Brussels and its 
governments have to decide how to design the regulation, taxation instruments and investment schemes to ensure 
those targets become a reality.
EU diplomats expect the summit to act as a useful venting session for leaders, where they will be able to make 
clear what they want — and do not want — to see from the European Commission’s July bonanza of 12 legislative 
proposals to make the bloc “fit for 55 per cent” cuts. 
Poorer and higher polluting countries in southern and eastern Europe are pushing for compensatory mechanisms 
such as subsidies and welfare schemes to help cushion the blow. Poland is leading the charge, demanding a higher 
share of revenues from the EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme for households struggling to end their reliance on coal 
for heating or ditching diesel and petrol cars.
Another summit flashpoint will how be best to impose emissions targets on swaths of the economy. The EU has two 
big tools at its disposal: legally-binding national targets (known as Effort Sharing); and its market-driven ETS, which 
charges companies a price for polluting. 
One of the commission’s most contested plans is to extend the ETS to new sectors such as cars and the heating of 
buildings — a move that will expose consumers to Europe’s record carbon price. 
But the expansion could have unintended consequences. 
New research from Cambridge Econometrics, the analysts, suggests the expanded ETS will have a negative impact 
on the economy by dramatically increasing pump and heating prices for large parts of Europe’s population. The only 
way to mitigate the adverse effects, they and many governments in Europe argue, is to put the carbon price 
revenues directly back into the pockets of consumers. 
Chart du jour: Bitcoin ‘dirty’ mining 
Energy-intense mining of cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin is becoming a growing concern for climate officials. The 
UN is backing the “Crypto Climate Accord” initiative, led by the Rocky Mountain Institute, a clean energy non-profit 
organisation. The programme aims to ensure that future blockchain-based projects are designed to consume less 
energy. ( Read more here) 
Treaty on pandemics
European leaders, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel, will make an appearance at the World Health 
Organization’s annual assembly starting on Monday and ending on June 1, writes Valentina Pop in Brussels. 
Reform proposals have been put forward in recent months including by an  independent panel commissioned by the 
Geneva-based body to scrutinise the global response to the pandemic. Its conclusion: the outbreak  could have 
been stopped with a swift international response.
Among the recommendations made is tightening an existing rule book on pandemic preparedness and enshrine it in 
an international treaty — or convention — a proposal Charles Michel, EU Council president, first made in November 
2020 and that is backed by a big coalition of countries. But there are a few important fence-sitters, notably the US, 
Russia and China. 
The WHO assembly is set to give its green light tomorrow or Wednesday to a working group which will examine the 
pros and cons of such a convention, according to an EU official familiar with the talks.
Instead of launching the negotiations on a treaty next week, countries sceptical of an international treaty have 
managed to delay a decision until November. That is when a special WHO assembly will congregate again to hear 
from the working group and decide whether to start the discussions. 
Greek PM: EU leaders must show unity on Belarus
Under the initial proposal, the convention would not only lay out stricter pandemic preparedness and response 
benchmarks but also touch on keeping supply chains open and establishing an equitable vaccine and drugs 
distribution system. 
A precedent exists in a 2003 WHO convention on tobacco control — which the US never signed — that includes 
provisions on taxation, packaging warnings and measures to clamp down on illicit trade and sales to minors. 
But as with any international treaty, a WHO convention on pandemic preparedness would take years before it came 
into force. And the more issues the convention seeks to address, the more complicated negotiations will turn out to 
be.
Two things to watch on Monday 
•
EU leaders gather in person for a two-day summit in Brussels
•
The World Health Organization starts its virtual week-long assembly in Geneva 
. . . and later this week
•
The Dutch parliament votes on the EU Own Resources Decision needed to fuel the Recovery Fund on 
Thursday
•
Foreign ministers meet for an informal council on Thursday, and defence ministers gather on Friday
•
EU-Japan summit takes place virtually on Thursday
Notable, Quotable 
•
The EU can arm allied governments in conflict zones for the first time, through a new fund called the 
European Peace Facility. The move is a big step in the bloc’s efforts to project more “hard power” — and a 
contentious one. (  Read more here) 
•
EU finance ministers met in Lisbon on Saturday and  expressed broad support for an upcoming Europe-
wide tax on kerosene jet fuel, as part of bloc’s ambitious carbon emissions reduction targets.
•
Germany’s Christian Democrats fear an internal hard-right movement similar to the Tea Party in the US, as 
multiple centrist candidates are sidelined in favour of ultraconservatives ahead of elections in September. (  
Der Spiegel)
•
Slovenia’s Prime Minister Janez Jansa follows Hungary’s Viktor Orban down an authoritarian path, turning 
on judges and the media ahead of country assuming EU presidency in July. (  Read more here)
FT Event: Future of Asset Management Europe
On 27-28 May, Europe’s asset and wealth managers will explore how funds are adapting to a new digital wayof 
working while building business models that allow them to harness opportunities for economic recovery. Register 
 here.
Load-Date: May 26, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair scores first wins in EU court against state-propped flag carriers
Ryanair scores first wins in EU court against state-propped flag carriers
 
FT.com
May 19, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 478 words
Byline: Valentina Pop in Brussels and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Irish low-cost carrier Ryanair on Wednesday scored its first partial victories at the EU’s second-highest court 
against rival airlines propped up by state aid during the pandemic. 
The Luxembourg-based General Court ruled the European Commission argued insufficiently why Portugal’s TAP 
airline and the Netherlands’ KLM carrier should receive state aid totalling €4.6bn back in June 2020.
However, the court said in both cases, given the “particularly damaging impact of the pandemic”, the airlines did not 
have to pay the money back pending new decisions by the commission.
Still, it marks a victory for Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary, who has succeeded for the first time in getting 
state aid decisions favouring rivals annulled in an EU court after filing more than 20 complaints. 
He has been a fierce critic of state support given to national flag carriers, which he said would not be paid back to 
governments in what amounted to subsidies and a suppression of competition. 
One of his other complaints was dismissed by the court, also on Wednesday. This was a challenge against Spain’s 
state aid scheme for strategic non-financial companies set up in July 2020 and worth €10bn.
Ryanair welcomed the court’s rulings on the Portuguese and Dutch cases, saying the funding of those carriers 
“went against the fundamental principles of EU law and reversed the clock on the process of liberalisation in air 
transport by rewarding inefficiency and encouraging unfair competition”. 
Ryanair scores first wins in EU court against state-propped flag carriers
O’Leary argued support made available to flag carriers only was discriminatory and undermined the EU’s single 
market in air travel.
He has labelled carriers including Air France and KLM as state-aid “junkies”, but others in the industry argue the  
support was needed to help carriers survive an unprecedented collapse in passenger numbers.
The commission said in both cases it would “carefully study the judgment and reflect on possible next steps”.
New and better-argued decisions in both would probably be issued by the commission, but there was no immediate 
urgency given the recovery of the funds had been suspended, said an EU official familiar with the matter.
KLM said it had taken note of the judgment and would review it. “The decision of the General Court does not have 
any consequences for KLM and the aid it has received at this moment. The General Court has decided that the 
consequences of the annulment will be suspended,” it added.
TAP said the decision “will have no immediate impact” on the state-aid granted to it. 
The court losses come after several high-profile defeats on state aid for the commission, notably on Apple  last year 
and Amazon  earlier this month. 
In those rulings, the court found that the commission had not sufficiently proven how the tech companies benefited 
from alleged illegal state aid in Ireland and Luxembourg in the form of sweetheart tax deals.
Load-Date: May 19, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair : buckle up for further turbulence
Ryanair: buckle up for further turbulence
 
FT.com
May 17, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 380 words
Body
The pandemic has hit travel more heavily than any other sector. But the financial markets have deemed well-run, 
low-cost European airlines to be winners in the recovery. Leading that pack is Ryanair, which said net losses of 
€815m  over the past year were its largest ever on Monday.  
Those were of little concern to investors. They have pushed Ryanair shares ever higher since vaccine 
breakthroughs last year. The Irish group’s efficiency and its strong balance sheet should allow it to take market 
share and capitalise on fast-growing new markets.
Ryanair plans to expand while rivals such as easyJet are scaling back. Shares at 13 times 3-year earnings are at 
the top of the past decade’s range. A return to pre-pandemic levels of flying, though, will take longer. Plans for 
vaccine passports would delay an already lacklustre recovery in regions where it is needed most. New variants of 
coronavirus mean the new normal is replete with uncertainties.
Almost 150m passengers flew with Ryanair annually before the pandemic. Passenger numbers this year would be 
towards the lower end of estimates at between 80m-100m, the company has confirmed. That might be enough to 
get the group back into the black. Current analysts’ consensus suggests a €115m net profit. Short-term predictions 
are exercises in guesswork as governments impose sporadic lockdowns. 
Airline investors expect big things from eastern Europe. Fast economic growth, underpenetration of flights and a 
growing cohort of business travellers all play in the region’s favour. Ryanair is second in the region to Hungarian 
rival Wizz Air with a sixth of narrow-body market share. 
Ryanair : buckle up for further turbulence
Those pros need to be balanced against the constraints that health passports would impose. The EU’s Digital 
Green Certificate could become a requirement for travel, for example. But almost two-fifths of Poles say they do not 
plan to get the jab. Hesitancy in Slovenia, Croatia and Bulgaria is even higher.
Wizz Air’s prospects are tied even closer to eastern European markets. Shares have kept up with Ryanair the past 
year and also command a premium. Expect turbulence for both as travel restrictions evolve, with Ryanair the safer 
bet.
Our popular newsletter for premium subscribers Best of Lex is published twice weekly. Please sign up  here. 
Load-Date: May 17, 2021
End of Document
O’Leary slams ‘complacent’ Boeing over Max delivery delays
O’Leary slams ‘complacent’ Boeing over Max delivery delays
 
FT.com
May 17, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 604 words
Byline: Harry Dempsey and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary has blasted a “complacent” Boeing for delays in delivering the airline’s 
troubled 737 Max aircraft.
The low-cost carrier handed Boeing a  major boost with a multibillion-dollar deal for 75 of the planes in December, 
the first firm Max order since the jet was grounded for 20 months after  two fatal accidents within five months. 
But on Monday, O’Leary said Boeing had not delivered 14 aircraft expected in April and May, accusing the US 
company of mishandling its relationships with safety regulators — a particularly sensitive issue following the 
crashes. 
Boeing paused deliveries of the Max in April  over an electrical issue, and promised to catch up on 
deliveries through the rest of the year. 
“I think it’s disappointing and unacceptable. Certainly, if they’re treating the regulator with the same radio silence 
that they’re treating customers, I’d be very worried about the durability of the aircraft,” O’Leary said on a company 
results call on Monday.
While O’Leary has not spared Boeing from his withering criticism of large parts of the industry over the years, he 
had become a strident supporter of the troubled Max aircraft. 
Boeing said: “We continue to work with Ryanair to support their fleet requirements.”
O’Leary slams ‘complacent’ Boeing over Max delivery delays
O’Leary’s comments came as  Ryanair slumped to the steepest annual loss in its 35-year history as the coronavirus 
crisis devastated international travel.
But Europe’s largest low-cost carrier hopes an air travel recovery has already begun that will strengthen in the 
coming months after an  uptick in weekly bookings in the past month.
O’Leary said demand for flights would bounce back over the summer and return to 80 or 90 per cent of pre-
pandemic traffic volumes from October.
“We see a very strong recovery of traffic subject to the continuing success of the vaccine rollout programme through 
summer 2021,” he said in a pre-recorded message.
The carrier described last year as the most challenging in history after Covid-19 restrictions led to an 80 per cent 
drop in passengers to 27.5m in the year ending in March, leading to a net loss of €815m. 
That was down from 148.6m passengers and a net profit of just over €1bn a year earlier before the pandemic 
struck, but slightly better than analysts’ expectations.
It reiterated that passenger numbers this year would be at the lower end of an 80m-120m range in a sign that there 
was still a way to go to reach pre-pandemic levels. 
In the first quarter from April to June, the airline expects to only carry between 5m-6m passengers, as governments 
keep their borders shut.
However, there have been promising signs of a recovery taking hold. Customer bookings tripled from 500,000 in the 
first week of April to more than 1.5m last week.
Airlines hope Covid-19 vaccines will pave the way for the return of international travel in Europe and the US over 
the summer after a torrid 15 months. But the circulation of virus variants is prompting caution from governments 
over reopening borders.
Ryanair did not give any formal earnings guidance for the current financial year, but it said it was likely to come 
close to break-even.
Analysts said its annual earnings hinged on the possible addition of Italy and Greece by the end of May and Spain 
by early June to the UK’s green list for travel.
“As with other airlines in the sector, much rests on the relaxation of travel restrictions by peak summer to revive 
earnings,” said Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein.
This article has been amended to state that Ryanair’s passenger numbers reached 27.5m in the year ending in 
March, not 146.8m as wrongly reported in a previous version.
Load-Date: May 18, 2021
End of Document
Aviation bosses call for further easing of UK travel restrictions
Aviation bosses call for further easing of UK travel restrictions
 
FT.com
May 17, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 612 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis at Heathrow airport
Body
Aviation bosses called on ministers to further ease travel restrictions ahead of the peak summer season as 
thousands of holidaymakers flew out of the UK on Monday following the latest lifting of  coronavirus restrictions. 
Airports saw a small rise in the number of people travelling after the partial lifting of tight border rules, removing a 
months-long ban on international leisure travel.
But passengers from Britain are only able to visit a handful of destinations such as Portugal and Gibraltar without 
quarantining on their return. 
There was a steady trickle of passengers inside Heathrow Terminal 5’s cavernous check-in area on Monday 
morning, normally the busiest time of the week. The airport was expecting 11,000 departing passengers, more than 
in recent weeks but just 10 per cent of pre-pandemic levels. 
“It is a slow and steady start to travel, but just the fact it is legal again to get on a plane is transformational,” said 
John Holland-Kaye, Heathrow’s chief executive. 
It was a similar picture at the UK’s other major airports, with the number of people flying still a fraction of what they 
would normally be at the beginning of the peak tourist season. One airport executive said some flights to “green list” 
countries such as Portugal were only half full.
“It’s a small step but it’s an important one,” said Sean Doyle, British Airways chief executive. His airline had 80 
flights scheduled on Monday, about a tenth of normal levels. 
Aviation bosses call for further easing of UK travel restrictions
At Gatwick airport there were 57 flights scheduled, a measure of relief after falling to around a dozen during 
lockdown this year, but down from 838 on the same day in 2019. 
A Ryanair flight to Faro in Portugal at 6am marked East Midlands airport’s first passenger flight in six months, while 
5,000 passengers at tourist-focused Stansted represented just 6 per cent of normal levels. 
Doyle and Holland-Kaye both said the US, large parts of Europe and the Caribbean should be added to the UK’s 
“green list” for foreign travel in time for the summer holiday season.
But the government has been urging caution in recent days as  concern has grown over the rapid spread of a 
Covid-19 variant first identified in India. Ministers have said people should not travel on holiday to countries on the 
“amber” list, which includes key tourist hubs such as France, Spain and Italy.
“Today the world is not open to us,” Doyle said.
The industry also wants ministers to publish a list of countries expected to be put on the “green list”, to encourage 
more people to book a summer holiday, and to exempt vaccinated passengers from expensive testing on their 
return. 
“We are not advocating for an immediate return to unrestricted travel, but we can now responsibly allow travel to 
other low-risk destinations,” Holland-Kaye said.
Searches for holidays to Portugal rose sevenfold compared with the previous week after the country was put on the 
green list earlier this month, said BA, while there had also been a rise in interest for trips to Spain and the US, 
despite returning passengers facing self-isolation.
But after months of yearning for the return of passengers, airports are worried about huge queues at immigration if 
people return en masse this summer. Border Force officers are conducting checks on every returning passenger, to 
verify Covid-related documents including proof of a negative test. 
Queues have stretched to as long as six hours on occasion at Heathrow, but Holland-Kaye said he has received a 
personal assurance from Border Force that immigration queues will be manageable this summer. He said some 
electronic passport gates have been reopened after being upgraded with new technology to handle the new Covid 
documents.
Load-Date: May 18, 2021
End of Document
Housebuilder Vistry makes ‘very positive’ start to the year
Housebuilder Vistry makes ‘very positive’ start to the year
 
FT.com
May 17, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 886 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Housebuilder Vistry reported a “very positive” start to the year and said its half-year profit should be “significantly 
ahead of our previous expectations” 
Housebuilding is on track to deliver a significant step-up in completions to around 6,500 units this year, from 4,652 
in 2020, along with an improvement in gross margin, the company said. Reflecting strong trading, Vistry raised its 
2021 adjusted pre-tax profit target to £325m from at least £310m previously. 
Vistry left 2022 guidance unchanged.
Briefly
GlaxoSmithKline and Sanofi said a mid-stage clinical trial of their Covid-19 vaccine candidate “triggered strong 
neutralising antibody responses in all adult age groups”. The companies plan to start a phase 3 study “in the 
coming weeks” after the trial suggested high immune response after a single dose in patients with prior infection, 
which they said shows strong booster potential.
Equiniti, the administration outsourcer for listed companies, said the Takeover Panel has agreed to extend the 
deadline for private equity group Siris Capital to make a firm bid to May 28. Siris, which gained Equiniti’s co-
operation last month after proposing a 180p a share buyout, had faced a deadline to bid or walk away of 5pm today. 
Housebuilder Vistry makes ‘very positive’ start to the year
Blue Prism said 2021 revenue will probably be towards the lower end of its £170-£180m guidance range, with the 
ebitda loss guidance unchanged at around £25m. In a trading update, the software maker said bookings were up 
35 per cent to £98m in the first half ended April and cash at the end of the period totalled £126m. 
Ryanair slumped to the  steepest annual loss in its 35-year history as the coronavirus crisis devastated 
international travel, but Europe’s largest low-cost airline held out on hopes of a strong recovery in the coming 
months. Covid-19 restrictions led to an 80 per cent drop in passenger numbers to 146.8m and a net loss of €815m 
in the year ending March.
Water regulator Ofwat set out plans to support £850m of green projects, with a further £1.9bn earmarked for future 
investment. Severn Trent said it had received regulatory endorsement to invest £565m and Pennon revealed 
backing for £81m of additional environmental investment. 
Gold miner Petropavlovsk said bullion sold rose 6 per cent last year as metal bought in from third parties for 
processing helped offset a drop in its own production. The company posted a $48.9m loss for 2020 on non-cash 
items including asset writedowns and a revaluing of convertible bonds. Excluding these items, full-year earnings 
totalled $76.1m, up from $26m the year before. The company said it remains on track to meet 2021 production 
targets. 
Diploma said full-year results will be significantly ahead of previous expectations. The controls, seals and life 
science equipment maker reported an operating profit for the half year to March of £66.6m, up 33 per cent, on 
revenue up 29 per cent to £365.2m. A further acceleration in underlying growth for all three sectors in April helped 
support a resumption of the interim dividend with a payment of 12.5p a share.
New launch
The FT today launches a new email. Written by US financial editor Robert Armstrong, Unhedged covers markets, 
and the people and companies that live and die by them. It will be delivered to inboxes every weekday morning. 
Sign up  here to get it sent straight to your inbox.
Beyond the Square Mile
AT&T is nearing a deal to combine its content unit WarnerMedia with rival Discovery to create a media giant with 
an enterprise value of $150bn,  said people briefed about the matter. The AT&T board met on Sunday to approve 
the deal. The structure of the deal, however, remains unclear. But AT&T, which has a market value of about 
$230bn, is expected to control most of the combined entity, which will span the Warner Bros film and television 
studios, the HBO network and a portfolio of cable channels including CNN.
US banks stand to shed 200,000 jobs, or 10 per cent of employees, over the next decade as they manoeuvre to 
increase profitability in the face of changing customer behaviour,  according to a banking analyst. The jobs most at 
risk are those in branches and call centres as banks prune their sprawling networks to match the new realities of 
post-pandemic banking, says Mike Mayo of Wells Fargo.
Insurance group Axa said on Sunday that one of its  Asian business units had been the victim of a “targeted 
ransomware attack”, after a group of cyber criminals claimed to have seized troves of sensitive data from the 
company. Data were taken from Axa’s units in Thailand, the Philippines, Hong Kong and Malaysia, and included 
customers’ personally identifiable information, medical records and claims, as well as data from hospitals and 
doctors, the hackers claimed on a dark web post seen by the Financial Times.
Essential comment before you go
Pilita Clark
We all know what it’s like  to feel Mondayitis. What’s new is that in many parts of the world, the problem has been 
fading as a result of the pandemic. But now a lot of people want this to end — including many bosses.
Lex
Housebuilder Vistry makes ‘very positive’ start to the year
The White House is not the only office to welcome  older occupants. America’s gerontocracy extends to corporate 
boardrooms too. Chief executive appointees have been steadily rising in age for more than a decade in the US and 
appointments this year show no deviation from the trend.
Load-Date: May 17, 2021
End of Document
Europe forced to turn back clock to bail out airlines
Europe forced to turn back clock to bail out airlines
 
FT.com
May 10, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1272 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London, David Keohane in Paris, Silvia Sciorilli Borrelli in Milan
Body
European governments have gone retro. After the launch of privatisation in aviation two decades ago, the 
coronavirus crisis has caused a sharp policy reversal as countries across the continent have stumped up billions of 
euros in state aid to save their national flag carriers.
Paris has  increased its stake in Air France-KLM to nearly 30 per cent, Berlin has taken a 20 per cent stake in 
Lufthansa, while Rome owns 100 per cent of Alitalia as more than €20bn has been invested in companies 
considered too strategically important to fail.
But a backlash against state support is growing as rival carriers fear an uneven playing field and warped 
competition. While governments defend investment as necessary to save airlines facing unprecedented short-term 
risks to their survival, critics say public money could allow propped up airlines to avoid tough decisions needed for 
long-term growth. 
The fiercest critic has been Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary, who has filed 16 cases to test the state aid rules in 
European courts, arguing that support made available to flag carriers only is discriminatory and undermines the 
EU’s single market in air travel.
The Irish chief executive said companies such as Air France will never be able to pay governments back, but will be 
able to “subsidise and suppress competition for the next decade.”
“We, easyJet, [BA owner] IAG and the others have to compete with these state-aid, crack cocaine junkies.”
Europe forced to turn back clock to bail out airlines
Ryanair has lost all five cases decided so far, but O’Leary told the Financial Times he thinks there is a “very strong 
likelihood” his low-cost airline will overturn the verdicts on appeal.
The pandemic has also highlighted differences between the continental Europeans, where state-aid rules were 
relaxed to help companies survive the crisis, and the US and UK.
The British and Americans have stopped short of taking equity stakes despite offering billions in loans and other 
financial support, leading some to argue their airlines will emerge stronger as they have been forced to make 
aggressive cuts to navigate the crisis.
“When we’re out of this, it will be immensely liberating for the companies that don’t have governments in their 
register, to do continuous improvement, to be nimble and agile,” Shai Weiss, the chief executive of Virgin Atlantic, 
told the FT. 
“I think the payback will be once we are in safe harbour. We’ve just learnt to work with [other airlines receiving 
support].” His airline was refused a rescue package by the UK government last year, and raised cash privately.
The ever-bullish O’Leary agrees, insisting government intervention creates a long-term opportunity for airlines like 
his “to become ever more efficient and competitive, just to survive against the billions of state aid”.
But the support has also underlined the importance of airlines as significant employers and strategic assets that 
governments were unwilling to let fail during the crisis.
Not only have the companies welcomed the support to cope with the passenger collapse, but falling share prices 
have made them cheaper takeover targets for foreign competitors.
“In Europe, this crisis has revived old concerns,” Martin Vial, who runs France’s state equity investments, told the 
FT, alluding to the potential threat of US or Chinese groups building up stakes in domestic companies on the 
continent.
Governments “have to make sure that some of the biggest businesses in these countries, private or public, do not 
fall victim to predators because obviously the crisis is going to open up opportunities,” he added.
Vial, who sits on the board of Air France-KLM, also stresses airlines are important strategically “for France as they 
are for other European countries”.
“You have to take into account that over the past year, some 15 airline groups have received state capital support. 
Air France-KLM is not an exception.”
Analysts agree there is a strong argument for viewing flag carriers as strategic. 
“Let’s say some midsized company from France wants to build a new production plant in Bratislava. Will it build that 
plant in Bratislava, if it couldn’t rely on there being consistent air services to that place?” said Daniel Roeska, an 
analyst at Bernstein.
He believes many airlines would have gone under without state support. “We have seen states in general inject 
money to maintain services and help these companies survive. If governments had not done that, we would have 
had a flood of bankruptcies.”
In Italy, the government has gone the whole hog, nationalising its flag carrier Alitalia in 2020, with plans to relaunch 
it through a new company called ITA.
Although admitting to being “very saddened” to lose the old brand, Italian prime minister Mario Draghi hopes ITA 
will eventually be able to survive without public support.
Europe forced to turn back clock to bail out airlines
“Someone my age has travelled almost his entire life with Alitalia, it’s like being part of a family . . . an expensive 
one, but nevertheless a family,” he told a press conference in April.
But before Rome can consider any exit plans, it must first wrestle with Brussels over state aid conditions.
Italy’s previous government put aside €3bn for the new national airline, but the European Commission is demanding 
a major reduction of airport slots — one of the loudest complaints from rivals — the sale of handling and ground 
services as well as job cuts in order to give the plan the green light. 
Italian politicians are insisting any reduction must be in line with  the limited hit Air France-KLM took at Paris Orly.
In France and Germany, full state ownership is not on the agenda. 
Paris is adamant it will not nationalise Air France-KLM, promising to scale back its equity investment over time, and 
at a profit, while the German government has said it also hopes to make a small profit and sell its stake when the 
airline “is fit again”. 
Air France-KLM is expected to need further recapitalisation measures, including perhaps from the Dutch state, 
while Lufthansa shareholders this month approved a future capital raise to help pay back some of the government 
support. 
“We are not in the same world as maybe 20 or 30 years ago. We are not in a state of mind where state aid is given 
without expecting economic performance in return,” said Vial, pointing to  the strides Air France had made before 
the crisis when the state was already a 14 per cent shareholder.
But restoring the health of the airlines may take longer than expected. 
Bernstein’s Roeska warns the legacy carriers will wear the scars of the crisis for years as they struggle to 
deleverage and restructure to adapt to a smaller marketplace. “The price will be lower growth,” he said.
The carriers also face constraints in exchange for state support, including meeting new environmental standards.
In France, ministers are backing laws culling flights, if there is an alternative train option of under two hours and 30 
minutes. Vial argues this will eventually be seen as an asset as customers demand greener travel options.
But interventions like that have raised deeper concerns. Andrew Charlton, an aviation analyst who led the 
privatisation of Australian carrier Qantas in the 1990s, argues it is difficult for governments to maintain a boundary 
between fair competition and their own interests when holding airline stakes. 
“What is the analysis that calls for governments and countries to have their flag flown around the world? The 
concern is you will be unconnected to the world, but really — no one is going to fly to Paris or Berlin?”
The labels on the liquidity chart have been amended since original publication to make clear the state borrowing 
section includes commercial loans backed by state guarantees
Load-Date: June 14, 2021
End of Document
Acciona calls on finance chief to make sustainability add up
Acciona calls on finance chief to make sustainability add up
 
FT.com
May 5, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 736 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger
Body
When Michael O’Leary is ready to pay a premium for sustainable jet fuel to help save the planet, you know the 
business world has changed. 
The chief executive of low-cost airline Ryanair last week pledged to power 12.5 per cent of the carrier’s flights with 
green fuel — currently two to four times more costly than the standard fuel — by 2030 in a bid to cut carbon 
emissions. It was a sharp U-turn on his previous position that Ryanair would shift from traditional fuel only if prices 
were equivalent.
Not everyone captures attention like the outspoken O’Leary. But others are quietly doing even more in a sign of 
how mainstream climate issues have become for companies. Just days before the Ryanair boss’s change of heart, 
the Spanish infrastructure and renewables company, Acciona, unveiled a new five-year sustainability  plan.
Acciona has long focused on sustainability. In 2009, the board set up a “sustainability committee” and the company 
has been net-zero carbon emitting since 2016. 
But buried in the details of its new plan, Acciona revealed it had moved sustainability from the marketing 
department, handing responsibility for environmental, social and governance targets to the finance director. It may 
not be an outright first. But certainly the decision is so rare that those who advocate integration of financial and 
sustainability reporting struggle to think of another company that has done the same.
Acciona calls on finance chief to make sustainability add up
Jessica Fries, executive chair of Accounting for Sustainability, a charity founded 17 years ago to make sustainability 
a core discipline of finance departments, describes it as “a really powerful signal”.
Acciona was not alone in leaving sustainability with marketing, Fries says. But, as policy makers set aggressive 
environmental targets and regulators move to demand disclosure, ESG issues are being seen as material factors in 
the financial well-being of a business.
CDP, a not-for-profit group that runs a sustainability disclosure system used by close to 6,000 businesses 
worldwide, has  estimated that the financial risk from climate change to the world’s 500 biggest companies comes 
to just under $1tn, based on survey answers. But climate-related opportunities outweighed the risk at $2.1tn.
With such sums at stake, some investors are demanding as much rigour in measuring performance on ESG criteria 
as they do for returns on investment or profitability. 
They are also demanding that oversight of sustainability should sit at board level rather than being farmed out to 
managers with little executive power.
Legal & General Investment Management asks that all of its portfolio companies have at least one board director 
focused on sustainability or they risk a protest vote. 
According to José Angel Tejero, Acciona’s chief finance officer who has taken over the sustainability team, the 
decision to merge the roles was in part to address this growing demand from investors. 
But it was also born from the recognition that the opportunities to gain a competitive edge with sustainable initiatives 
are growing; not just in new products and services, but in debt finance that pegs interest rates to whether a 
company meets or misses ESG targets. 
For many companies, ensuring the new ESG lending conditions are realistic, and can be measured and met, is a 
new discipline — especially when the world is divided over standards for sustainability reporting. 
Which is why it makes sense for Acciona and others to integrate sustainability with finance. After all, it is the finance 
department that manages risk, sets budgets and distils the information that guides investment decisions. Mervyn 
King, a South African who is chair emeritus of the International Integrated Reporting Council, argues that the CFO 
is the  “true change maker” of a company.
Not all companies will choose to hand oversight to the finance director. But their boards will have to assume greater 
responsibility to reassure the investment community that there is top-level accountability. Worryingly, PwC’s last 
annual corporate directors survey found that more than half the board members questioned admitted that ESG was 
not regularly addressed at meetings, while close to 60 per cent did not believe disclosure should be a priority.
These are no longer sustainable attitudes. Unless company boards demonstrate willingness to be directly 
accountable for oversight of sustainability, investors may question their commitment to change.
Load-Date: May 5, 2021
End of Document
A tale of two airline markets
A tale of two airline markets
 
FT.com
May 5, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 785 words
Byline: Brooke Masters
Body
Warren Buffett doesn’t admit to many mistakes. Asked over the weekend about his decision to dump $4bn in US 
airline shares last May, the Berkshire Hathaway chief executive responded drily, “  I do not consider it a great 
moment in Berkshire’s history.” 
Shares in American, United and Southwest Airlines have all more than doubled in a year, and Delta’s stock price 
had as well until a recent tumble brought its gain below 100 per cent. Though most US carriers are still burning 
through cash, they  are unabashedly enthusiastic about the future. “The worst is behind us,” Southwest chief 
executive Gary Kelly said at first-quarter earnings, and American’s chief Doug Parker predicted “the pace of 
recovery is accelerating”.
Across the Atlantic, Lufthansa CEO Carsten Spohr  tried to sound similarly upbeat. “We do look to the future with 
quite some confidence and optimism,” he said. But he also had to reassure investors that “this unprecedented crisis 
forces us to overcome our known weaknesses, and it will make us stronger”.
Although they are linked by alliances, the big US and European airlines are facing very different fates. The Covid-19 
pandemic has exacerbated structural differences between the two markets, putting the American carriers in a much 
stronger position to adjust to a radically altered travel environment. 
By 2019, North America was highly profitable. Most of the big carriers had used Chapter 11 bankruptcy to cut costs. 
Fifteen years of consolidation had left the top five carriers (including Air Canada) with 75 per cent of capacity, 
allowing them to boost prices.
A tale of two airline markets
In Europe, cut-price operator Ryanair had already muscled its way into the top five, a group which controls just 51 
per cent of capacity, and other low-cost carriers were nipping at their heels. Lufthansa and IAG, parent of British 
Airways, are fighting back with their own low-price arms, but those are a work in progress. European flag carriers 
depend much more on long-haul and business passengers to turn a profit.
Enter the pandemic.  Global passenger traffic dropped by two-thirds last year, as measured by revenue-passenger 
kilometres, which takes into account traveller numbers and the length of flights. Carriers tapped government aid 
programmes, sold planes and furloughed or let staff go to stay afloat.
Winter lockdowns dashed hopes for a quick recovery. Industry group Iata last month projected that global demand 
in 2021 would only rebound to  43 per cent of 2019 levels, and the industry as a whole would continue to lose 
money.
But drill down and a transatlantic split appears. US domestic demand is expected to hit 2019 levels for the second 
half, while internal European demand will languish  below 50 per cent. And US airlines will narrow their collective 
2021 loss to 2.7 per cent of revenue, while European airlines will post loss margins of 19 per cent.
Rapid vaccine rollout and pent up desire to see spread out families are prompting Americans to start booking 
domestic flights, as well as some nearby beach vacations.  More than 1.6m people went through American airport 
screening on Sunday, the most since March 2020. No wonder the US last week saw the  launch of its first 
freestanding new airline since 2007. 
The situation is quite different in continental Europe, where vaccines have been slower to arrive and flights last 
week were down  64 per cent from 2019. Uncertainty around UK travel rules has forced Heathrow airport  to plan 
for anywhere from 13m to 36m passengers this year, down from 81m in 2019. Low-cost carriers are better 
positioned to  move routes around; easyJet is already promising free last-minute changes to help avoid quarantine.
“Historically we compared the US and Chinese domestic markets with short-haul travel within the single European 
sky. The pandemic has been a sobering reminder that the latter is at heart an international market and much more 
complex to restart,” says Geoffrey Weston of Bain & Co.
Business travel remains  deeply depressed everywhere. Given the rise in videoconferencing, some analysts 
forecast that demand will still be 10 per cent below 2019 levels in 2025. Lufthansa, which used to draw  45 per cent 
of revenue from corporate travellers, is scaling back high-end offerings and expanding premium economy to attract 
price-conscious small businesses and splurging leisure travellers. 
Having missed the US rebound, Buffett says he “still wouldn’t want to buy the airline business international[ly]”. But 
the slowdown will not last for ever, even in Europe. Watch for the strongest carriers to expand organically. Why buy 
a failing competitor when landing slots, planes and crew are already going cheap?
Follow Brooke Masters with  myFT and on  Twitter
Load-Date: May 5, 2021
End of Document
The destinations pulling out the stops to restart tourism
The destinations pulling out the stops to restart tourism
 
FT.com
April 30, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1947 words
Byline: Toby Skinner
Body
The Oxford Dictionary shortlisted “overtourism” as a word of the year for 2018, but 2021 might be a year of 
“desperate for tourism” — with even the likes of Venice, Barcelona and Reykjavik eager for the visitors to return. 
Places that used to simply sell beauty spots and sunsets are now marketing their low infection numbers and high 
vaccination rates, adding enticing offers from free vaccinations and financial incentives to long-stay visas for remote 
workers. The aim is to appeal to governments as well as holiday makers, in the hope that travellers will be allowed 
quarantine-free access under schemes like the UK’s  “traffic-light” system. Here we look at some of the places 
working hardest to kickstart tourism for this summer.
Greek islands
Greece, where a fifth of jobs and GDP depend on tourism, is currently one of the most open countries in Europe — 
with EU residents, as well as those from the UK, US, Israel, Serbia and the UAE already allowed to visit provided 
they have proof of a negative Covid-19 test taken within 72 hours before arrival or that they have been fully 
vaccinated. Tourists from the rest of the world are due to be allowed to enter from May 15.
In March, tourism minister Harry Theoharis announced that, as soon as the most vulnerable group had been 
vaccinated, the country would be prioritising those working in tourism. Authorities have also been targeting their 
vaccination programme, dubbed Operation Freedom, at tourism-dependent islands, using army planes, helicopters 
and coastguard boats to manage the complex task of delivering jabs. Vaccinations on islands with fewer than 1,000 
residents were due to be completed by the end of April, with the effort then accelerating to larger islands. The plans 
seem to have won the confidence of airlines: Ryanair is launching new services from UK airports to Kos, Santorini 
The destinations pulling out the stops to restart tourism
and Corfu; Delta is due to restart flights to Athens from New York on May 28 and launch a new direct route from its 
main hub, Atlanta, at the start of July. “We are more than optimistic, we are ready,” Theoharis told a recent travel 
conference. 
Israel
Israel’s early vaccine rollout means it currently has a higher proportion of fully vaccinated people than any other 
country besides the Seychelles, at 56 per cent (the EU, by way of comparison, is on 8 per cent, the US on 29 per 
cent). Tourism minister Orit Farkash-Hacohen held a press conference earlier this week announcing plans to 
capitalise on its vaccine advantage. “We cannot miss this opportunity — and as minister of tourism I won’t,” said 
Farkash-Hacohen. The US, UK and UAE will be key targets, with digital billboard advertisements soon to go up in 
Times Square, Piccadilly Circus and Dubai (tagline: “2020 Holy Moses, 2021 Holy Land”) as part of a global 
campaign. The government will also offer incentives to airlines to fly into Eilat, and will promote a series of large 
international events, including the Pride Parade in Tel Aviv, a music festival in Timna Park and a joint Israel-UAE 
cycling race. 
The timeline for reopening is relatively cautious, with the first small groups of vaccinated tourists arriving on May 23, 
and vaccinated independent travellers only allowed to follow in July. American Airlines is due to start flights from 
New York in May and Miami in June, and in early April Etihad inaugurated the first ever service from Abu Dhabi to 
Tel Aviv. More generally, Israel’s travel hotspots have never seemed more ready — from the increasingly cool 
ancient city of Jaffa to the vast and wild Negev desert, where the smart  Six Senses Shaharut is finally due to open 
in August.  
Malta
A 2018 stint as European Capital of Culture and a series of flashy architecture projects, including the upcoming 
MICAS art museum, have brought some much-needed buzz to the evocative capital, Valletta, and raised Malta’s 
tourism profile. The Mediterranean island has also been handy with its vaccination programme, with a higher 
proportion of fully vaccinated citizens than any other European country, bar the microstates of Monaco and San 
Marino. Earlier this month health minister Chris Fearne said the accelerating programme meant the country would 
reach herd immunity by June rather than September as previously thought. Borders are already open to tourists 
from 50 countries worldwide, subject to a negative test, and from June fully vaccinated visitors from those countries 
will be free to enter without a test.
Eager to get a head start on the competition, the Maltese authorities are also offering to pay visitors who come for 
at least three nights this summer. According to plans laid out by tourism minister Clayton Bartolo, anyone booking a 
five-star hotel in Malta will get a €200 handout (funded half by the government, half by the hotel), while four-star 
hotels will offer €150 and three-stars €100.
Alaska
Alaska’s vaccination effort has brought tales of vaccine supplies arriving on bush planes, water taxis and 
snowmobiles — with remote corners like the isolated St Lawrence Island having some of the highest vaccination 
rates in the US. The state is now planning to extend that drive to visitors, with Governor Mike Dunleavy recently 
announcing that tourists will be able to get free vaccinations from June 1 on arrival at Juneau, Fairbanks, Ketchikan 
and Anchorage airports. Both domestic and international tourists will be eligible for the Pfizer or Moderna shots, and 
those staying for three weeks or more will also be able to get their second shot in the state. 
No date has yet been given for the lifting of the US travel ban on those coming from the EU and UK but many in the 
industry believe a resumption of tourism is likely this summer. Earlier this week European Commission President 
Ursula von der Leyen indicated vaccinated Americans would be able to travel to the EU, subject to continuing 
improvements in the epidemiological situation.
Alaska’s move comes partly out of desperation. The state has been hit particularly hard by the continuing ban on 
cruise ships, which brought 1.3m passengers in 2019, more than half the total number of visitors. One factor in 
The destinations pulling out the stops to restart tourism
Alaska’s favour might be that many of its smartest accommodation options are naturally social distanced: like the 
Ultima Thule Lodge or  Sheldon Chalet, deep in the wilderness and reachable only by bush plane or helicopter. 
Gibraltar
Life in the diminutive British Overseas Territory at the southern tip of Spain has already returned more or less to 
normal, with restaurants and bars open (inside and out), no restrictions on the size of gatherings and the cinema 
reopening this weekend. Gibraltar announced itself free of any Covid-19 cases on April 8, and it has topped global 
vaccine league tables with 95 per cent of adults fully vaccinated. Those figures mean it is the surest bet of any 
destination to win “green” status on the UK’s traffic-light travel system, due to be announced in early May and to 
take effect from May 17. Green means tourists can return to the UK without quarantine, though they will still have to 
be tested. 
That status will be crucial to Gibraltar: the UK is the most important source market for tourists after Spain, with 
which the land border is already open. Airlines are predicting “the Rock” will find strong demand: new routes this 
summer include Wizz Air from Luton, Eastern Airways from Birmingham and Southampton and British Airways from 
London City. 
Madeira 
While politicians in Portugal have been vocal about their hopes to welcome visitors without quarantine, the 
mainland still lags behind the autonomous region of Madeira. It opened its borders to international tourists on July 1 
last year, with the requirement either to have negative test in the 72 hours before arrival or to take a free test on 
landing. In March, it introduced a “green corridor”, meaning that arriving tourists with proof of full vaccination would 
be free to enter without testing or quarantine. 
Madeira has been pushing hard to rid itself of a slightly fusty reputation, with a new brand identity unveiled this 
month and moves to play up its appeal to surfers, adventure travellers and digital nomads. Take sleepy Ponta Do 
Sol, which has been reimagined as the “Digital Nomad Village”, with free workspaces for up to 100 people staying 
more than a month. 
Iceland
Tourism has been booming in Iceland since 2010, so much so that some Icelanders saw last year’s 75 per cent 
drop in visitor numbers as a welcome break for the country’s sometimes crowded waterfalls, geysers and hot 
springs. But the country is nevertheless desperate to get its foreign visitors back, and the $3.8bn they brought to the 
country in 2019. 
On March 18, Iceland opened its borders to visitors from any country who could prove they had been fully 
vaccinated, becoming one of the first countries in the world to do so. At the start of June, those rules are likely to 
relax further, meaning most passengers will be able to visit quarantine-free with a negative Covid-19 test. Iceland is 
also targeting remote workers, with a new long-term visa offering 180-day stays with no income tax liability to non-
EU residents earning at least IKr1m ($8,000) per month. 
The country’s wide-open spaces seem likely to appeal to post-lockdown travellers. US airlines, in particular, are 
anticipating demand: Delta is adding a new daily service from Boston to Reykjavik in May, and reopening routes 
from New York and Minneapolis; while United Airlines is starting a new route from Chicago in July.
The Seychelles
A heavy reliance on tourism, which supplies just under a quarter of its GDP, has spurred the Seychelles’ 
vaccination programme: with 58 per cent of the population fully vaccinated, it is currently the leading nation. That 
rate gave the Indian Ocean country the confidence to reopen its borders to tourists on March 25, with no 
requirement to be vaccinated or quarantine but the proviso of a negative PCR test taken in the 72 hours pre-arrival. 
The policy applies to visitors from anywhere in the world apart from those coming from South Africa, Brazil, India, 
The destinations pulling out the stops to restart tourism
Pakistan and Bangladesh. While arrivals dropped by 70 per cent last year, there are signs that this one will be much 
better, with new air routes to the islands including an Aeroflot flight from Moscow that began in early April. 
The Maldives
With its island resorts naturally suited to social distancing, and with tourism directly and indirectly accounting for 
two-thirds of GDP,  the Maldives opened its borders to all visitors in July 2020, subject to a negative test. Some 
resorts reported a bumper winter season — Soneva Fushi and its sister property, Soneva Jani, saw occupancy up 
16 per cent in November against the same month the previous year — and in April the country announced fully 
vaccinated tourists would be able to enter without testing. Tourism officials now hope to attract 1.5m visitors this 
year, compared to 1.9m in 2019.
A higher proportion of the population (54 per cent) than in the UK or US have had at least one jab, and in April, 
tourism minister Abdulla Mausoom said that among frontline tourism workers the figure was approaching 90 per 
cent. Once all locals are vaccinated, the country will roll out its “3V” tourism strategy: “Visit, Vaccinate, Vacation”, 
with visitors offered free jabs on arrival.
Confidence in the tourism recovery seems high: Ritz-Carlton, for example, is pressing ahead with the opening of a 
new 100-villa resort in the Fari islands on June 1, the brand’s first hotel in the Maldives. The Singapore-based 
Capella Hotel Group will open the flagship property in its new Patina brand on the same archipelago on May 18.
Follow  @FTLifeArts on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first
Load-Date: May 7, 2021
End of Document
High Court tells Ryanair to pay passengers for strike cancellations
High Court tells Ryanair to pay passengers for strike cancellations
 
FT.com
April 29, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 401 words
Byline: Harry Dempsey
Body
The High Court told Ryanair to compensate passengers for hundreds of flights cancelled due to pilot strikes in 2018 
in the first court order against an airline led by the UK aviation regulator. 
Three years ago, Ryanair pilots and cabin crew took industrial action in an attempt to secure better pay and 
conditions across large parts of its network. On one of the worst days of the strikes, the airline had to cancel 400 
flights, or 15 per cent of its daily total, at the height of the summer holiday season.
The payouts are likely to be €250 per passenger for most journeys, which are short-haul, and €400 for a smaller 
number of longer distance flights. That could result in costs running into the mid-single digits of millions as more 
than 15,000 customers are thought to have been affected. 
Ryanair declined to comment. Europe’s biggest low-cost carrier can appeal against the verdict.
It had refused to pay compensation to passengers on the grounds that the delayed flights counted as “extraordinary 
circumstances”, therefore exempting them from compensation under European rules on air passengers’ rights.
The UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), which took legal action against the airline at the end of 2018, disputed that, 
claiming passengers were protected by law to compensation.
“We believed that these passengers were in fact protected by law and that Ryanair could not claim its delayed and 
cancelled flights were ‘extraordinary circumstances’,” said Paul Smith, director of the CAA. “The High Court has 
today agreed with our interpretation of the law.”
High Court tells Ryanair to pay passengers for strike cancellations
A potential payout to customers would hit Ryanair as it battles through the pandemic-induced collapse in 
international travel and passenger numbers.
The court order is a rare move against an airline with such cases brought forward by the CAA typically settled 
through legal undertakings. Other notable enforcement actions by the CAA include a claim against Emirates to 
compensate passengers for missed connections but it did not go to court.
Huw Merriman, chair of the transport select committee, welcomed the judgment, but said it had come three years 
late. 
“If the government gave the CAA the power it badly needs then it could issue immediate determinations for action 
and the matter would be instantly corrected,” he said. 
He said legislation to “give the regulator sharp teeth” must be brought forward at the state opening of parliament on 
May 11.
Load-Date: April 29, 2021
End of Document
Come Fly the World — the women who kept Pan Am aloft
Come Fly the World — the women who kept Pan Am aloft
 
FT.com
April 28, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 853 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger
Body
“I don’t think of myself as sex symbol,” says a stewardess in Julia Cooke’s social history of Pan American Airways 
and the female flight attendants who flew with the carrier in the 1960s and 70s. “I think of myself as someone who 
knows how to open the door of a 747 in the dark, upside down, and in the water.”
That comment was made to a journalist some 50 years ago — but even in the 21st century, airlines continue to 
exploit the stereotype of the sexually alluring stewardess to promote their business.
AirAsia still likes to surround chief executive Tony Fernandes with comely young women when he signs multibillion-
dollar deals for new aircraft. VietJet, run by Vietnam’s richest woman, had its air hostesses pose in bikinis for a 
publicity stunt in 2011. And Ryanair believes that the best way to sum up the green credentials proclaimed in its 
2020 environmental policy document is to photo-shop three young, attractive stewardesses saluting in front of a 
forested landscape. 
Haven’t we moved on? In many ways, we have, according to Cooke’s entertaining trot through the golden age of 
aviation. It is hard to imagine that a global carrier would today argue in a US court — as United did in the mid-1960s 
— that only attractive “young girls” could “add to the pleasure of the trip, the loveliness of the environment or the 
ego of the male passenger”. 
The days of sacking stewardesses when they hit 35 or got married — because, according to management, wives 
tended to put on weight — are also long gone. A stewardess in the 1960s worked on average for just 32.4 months. 
Yet in 2017, a trim 81-year-old Bette Nash celebrated her 60th anniversary as a flight attendant. 
Come Fly the World — the women who kept Pan Am aloft
Come Fly the World tells the story of PanAm’s heyday through the personal stories of some of its stewardesses — 
one a science major, another with a degree in education — all well-educated, multilingual and hungry to explore the 
world. At a time when just 6-8 per cent of American women had college degrees, roughly 10 per cent of Pan Am 
stewardesses had attended graduate school. Being a flight attendant offered an “alternative to the postwar 
straitjacket” of marriage and children. 
Stewardesses were expected to look and act like the epitome of conventional femininity — a distinctly white ideal in 
1960s and 70s America. They often drew the scorn of feminists for the titillating imagery used by airlines in ad 
campaigns such as National Airlines’ “Fly Me” or Braniff International’s Air Strip (yes, an air hostess changing 
uniforms to the tune of “The Stripper”). But they were also among the first to use the newly established Equal 
Employment Opportunities Commission to challenge gender-based discrimination.  
It may sound harsh to say that the individual stories of the smart and capable women chosen by Cooke is the least 
interesting part of her tale. Come Fly the World really takes off when she begins to look at the social and political 
context.
These women were not merely stewardesses, she argues, but diplomats serving US national interests in times of 
both war and peace. “Pan Am was the American flag, for all purposes an extension of the US government,” Cooke 
quotes a CIA officer as saying. The state — via the War Department — funded the creation of subsidiaries in Africa 
and South America that established it as the first “and, for decades to come, the only commercial airline to circle the 
globe”.
Some risked their lives in war-torn Vietnam to pick up soldiers on leave. Flights could be targeted by snipers, and 
stewardesses were given the status of second lieutenants to ensure the protection of the Geneva Convention 
should they be captured.
Their memories indicate the grit required for the job. One recalls a flight into Vietnam organised by Ed Daly, chief 
executive of World Airways, to evacuate women and children. Hundreds of refugees scrambled to board the aircraft 
but as flight attendants reached down to pull people up, shots were fired and grenades exploded. The strongest 
climbed over the weakest and in the end, out of 268 people who managed to board, there were only five women 
and three small children.
Cooke also sheds light on the operation to bring Vietnamese orphans — many the unrecognised children of GIs — 
to America. The experiences left Cooke’s protagonists marked for life. One former stewardess falls ill every year on 
the anniversary of Operation Babylift. Others decided to quit aviation, the harsh realities of a turbulent world 
creating a yearning for stability.
Come Fly the World is no detailed academic treatise. It is a much more personal tale, entertaining in parts but 
which, like the memories at its core, can be scant and disjointed. Yet Cooke succeeds in driving home the fact that 
these women were far from the vamps they were all too often portrayed in popular culture. Unfortunately, decades 
on, it is still too early to claim a definitive victory in that battle.
 Come Fly the World: The Women of Pan Am at War and Peace, by Julia Cooke, Icon Books, RRP£16.99, 274 
pages 
 Peggy Hollinger is the FT’s international business editor
Join our online book group on Facebook at  FT Books Café
Load-Date: April 30, 2021
End of Document
UK and European banks plan to slash business trips after pandemic
UK and European banks plan to slash business trips after pandemic
 
FT.com
April 25, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 753 words
Byline: Nicholas Megaw and Stephen Morris in London
Body
Europe’s largest banks are planning to slash business travel permanently by as much as half from pre-pandemic 
levels after the coronavirus crisis recedes, as many of the new ways of remote working developed during lockdown 
become the norm.
Senior bankers are keen to learn from the lessons of the past year to cut costs and bolster their green credentials, 
but the plans will be worrying for airlines and hospitality groups that rely heavily on business travel for profits and 
are hoping for a swift recovery once restrictions are lifted.
Noel Quinn, chief executive of HSBC, told the Financial Times he expected to reduce his own travel by about half 
post-Covid, taking fewer, longer trips to the lender’s global hubs to lower the number of flights required. 
Britain’s Lloyds Banking Group and Dutch bank ABN Amro, meanwhile, have become two of the first big lenders to 
set formal bank-wide emissions targets. Lloyds pledged to “sustain the momentum” built during the pandemic by 
keeping carbon-dioxide emissions from travel to less than 50 per cent of 2019 levels. 
ABN is aiming to halve its air travel compared with 2017 over the next five years, in part by banning bankers from 
taking flights between its European offices and forcing them to take the train.
For airlines and hospitality groups, it could prove a savage blow. Business class is one of the most lucrative 
sources of income for some airlines, while international hotels and other hospitality groups, such as restaurants and 
bars, can make up a lot of their earnings from executive functions and events for business people. 
UK and European banks plan to slash business trips after pandemic
Corporate travel can generate up to 75 per cent of airlines’ revenues on some international flights, according to 
PwC. 
It also undermines predictions from some industry bosses, such as Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary, who  
last week forecast business travel would make a full recovery from the crisis.
For domestic banks, such as Lloyds, cutting back on travel may be relatively easier, although it will still require a 
reduction in face-to-face meetings with business customers and foreign investors. However, even internationally 
focused investment banks are planning substantial cuts.
A senior executive at another bank with operations across several countries said his bank had yet to settle on a 
final target, but it was also considering limiting travel “to half of pre-pandemic practice”.
Andy Halford, chief financial officer of Standard Chartered, which has its headquarters in London although it carries 
out most of its business in emerging markets, was more cautious than some peers, but still expected bankers’ 
movements to be about a third lower than before the pandemic. 
“Meetings with investors to do updates, roadshows around the world, I expect those things will reduce. Many 
investors can get just as much out of it on video. But town halls with a lot of staff, important executive 
meetings . . . that will need to continue. The morale impact is worth the effort,” he said.
A decline of one-third would be in line with recent predictions by Star Alliance chief executive Jeffrey Goh, but other 
airline executives have been hoping for a less severe fall. Shai Weiss,  Virgin Atlantic chief executive, told the 
Financial Times this month that the company was planning for a long-term hit of as much as 20 per cent, while 
O’Leary was even more upbeat.
Several senior bankers said they were keen to resume some types of travel such as visiting staff and key clients, 
but realised 2020 had proven many trips taken in the past were superfluous.
“I think people don’t see the point of doing everything they were doing before,” said one senior investment banker. 
“Flying out for a one-hour meeting and coming back, for instance. These things will disappear.”
Maintaining some of the remote-working habits developed during the pandemic also provides an easy opportunity 
for banks to cut costs at a time when many are struggling to make sustainable returns in an era of low interest 
rates. HSBC alone saved $300m on travel costs in 2020 compared with the previous year.
The slowdown also reduced the bank’s annual CO2 emissions by about 73,000 tonnes. Although banks’ biggest 
contribution to climate change comes through their  lending to heavily polluting industries, travel-related emissions 
are a material portion of their direct carbon footprint.
A 50 per cent drop in travel across the UK’s four largest banks compared with 2019 would save close to 120,000 
tonnes of CO2 emissions each year, according to FT calculations.
Load-Date: May 4, 2021
End of Document
In a word, tell me how you feel about pensions
In a word, tell me how you feel about pensions
 
FT.com
April 23, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1080 words
Byline: Claer Barrett
Body
This week, I asked my Instagram followers to describe how they feel about pensions  in a single word. 
The answers ranged from “lucky” (a friend in her 60s grateful for the security of her final salary pension) to “yikes!” 
(a self-employed pal, aged 30, who has no pension at all). 
“Confused” was the top answer (“lost” and “uninformed” also featured). Yet those of us who had engaged with 
pension saving a bit more did not feel much better, choosing “exasperated”, “opaque” and “joyless” to describe our 
experiences. 
My own choice of word was “argh”. I had a letter from my pensions provider last month about tax thresholds that 
was so full of jargon and long-winded caveats, it may as well have been written in Sanskrit.
While pensions are clearly something most of us find very complex, pension providers are ultra wary of giving 
anything that could be construed as “advice” when they attempt to communicate with us. 
Why? Financial advice is a strictly regulated activity. If you need help deciphering all the jargon and tax rules, you’ll 
have to pay a financial adviser — and they are not cheap (evidenced by the friend who wrote “fleeced”). 
Even so, as a well paid professional, at least he’s been able to access advice and make significant pension 
savings. Many working people cannot afford to do either. 
This explains why the UK’s  “advice gap” is huge — only 9 per cent of UK adults ever see a financial adviser. 
In a word, tell me how you feel about pensions
The death of generous final salary schemes means that for most of us, managing our own pensions and 
investments is something we will need to do throughout our working lives and well into retirement. 
Leaving your money invested in the stock market after you have retired is now the norm — exposing individuals to 
far greater levels of risk. When you consider that most people feel themselves ill-equipped to deal with this, it’s a 
looming disaster. 
Yet it is a problem that US asset management giant Vanguard sees as a huge opportunity. This week, it  started a 
price war by launching a fully advised pension service for less than half the amount typically charged by other UK 
advisory firms. 
A bit like the Ryanair of the investment world, Vanguard is a low-cost, no-frills proposition (although I suspect its 
customer service ratings are somewhat higher than the airline). 
The target audience are people like me in their 40s, in the midst of what advisers call the “accumulation phase”, 
where we are saving up as much as we can towards retirement. Refreshingly, Vanguard wants to make this as 
simple as possible and there are lessons we can all take from this approach. 
Customers must have at least £50,000 to invest and start by completing a digital fact-find. The most difficult 
questions are probably  “when do you want to retire?” and “how much income do you want in retirement?” 
You’ll need to have a stab at those in order to be given a savings target to aim at, and a cash flow visualisation 
showing how the money flowing in to be invested now could grow over time and hopefully flow out as income after 
you retire. 
James Norton, who leads Vanguard’s financial planning team, says this helps address the question he believes is 
behind most of the confusion and worry associated with pension savings — “Will I have enough money to last me?”
Another important question is whether customers are saving the maximum amount into their workplace pension to 
bag the  “free money” of matched contributions. If you don’t know the answer, put it at the top of your to-do list now. 
They will also be probed about unused tax allowances. If you earn a six-figure salary and you’ve never heard of 
carry forward, add that to your list as well. 
It’s not just the fees that will be a game changer. Most people will rely on a combination of pensions and  stocks 
and shares Isas in retirement. Vanguard offers both, and will allocate your cash accordingly in the most tax-efficient 
manner, eliminating yet more complexity at a stroke. 
Nevertheless, there are some important caveats. The fees are so cheap because it’s restricted advice (you can only 
invest in Vanguard’s own range of passive funds) and for now at least, it does not cover the “decumulation” phase 
— managing your investments during retirement, the point at which many people seek financial advice. Customers 
won’t get access to bolt-on services that other advisers commonly provide like tax planning and protection 
insurance. 
I’m eager to see how consumers respond to this approach and what effect this has on the rest of the market. 
Anything that helps to make pension saving clearer, less daunting and easier to engage with will be a bonus. 
All too often, it feels like the pensions world does not want to engage with us. But to get the best bang for our buck, 
we also need to ask more questions and be more demanding of our providers. 
A year ago, I would have been more inclined to believe the argument that many young people were uninterested in 
pensions. However, the surging numbers who have  started investing during the pandemic has changed my mind. 
Sadly, I’ve not yet seen any memes proclaim “I’ve upped my contributions into my company pension” or “tax relief 
has boosted my investment pot by 40 per cent”. Yet in the long term, both of these could easily eclipse short-term 
gains from trading shares in GameStop. 
In a word, tell me how you feel about pensions
Next week, the FT is running  a series of free online events giving younger readers the chance to tell us how they 
feel about areas of the financial world where the odds seem stacked against them. 
Pensions are one. The housing market is another (indeed, many have eschewed pension saving to prioritise getting 
a housing deposit together). 
So if you’re feeling confused, frustrated or even angry, I would urge you to sign up for the session next Tuesday 
lunchtime with me, Josephine Cumbo, the FT’s global pensions correspondent, and Sebastian Payne, Whitehall 
editor and host of the Payne’s Politics podcast — and a millennial who  admits to needing help with his pension. 
Whatever word you’d use to describe them, the dreadful jargon and complexity makes pensions an area of personal 
finance that’s easy to ignore. But when you stop to think about what’s at stake, it’s hard to overstate the danger of 
putting it off for another day. 
Sign up for the FT’s free NextGen series of digital events next week including “Pensions: A decent retirement for 
the young” via  newdeal.live.ft.com
Claer Barrett is the FT’s consumer editor:  claer.barrett@ft.com; Twitter  @Claerb; Instagram  @Claerb
Load-Date: May 4, 2021
End of Document
Pandemic winners and losers
Pandemic winners and losers
 
FT.com
April 23, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1361 words
Byline: Darren Dodd
Body
Please share this newsletter with friends and colleagues who might find it valuable and let them know that, even if 
they are not subscribers to the Financial Times, they can read the newsletter — and all of the FT — free for 30 
days. Welcome and please sign up  here.
Get the latest worldwide picture with our  vaccine tracker
Latest news
•
US  new home sales have hit their highest level since 2006
•
Russia  increased interest rates by 50 basis points to 5 per cent, the second rise this year
•
FT analysis shows vaccine uptake  is increasing among ethnic minorities in England
For up-to-the-minute coronavirus updates, visit our  live blog
As young people emerge blinking from lockdown, they will start celebrating their newfound freedom by organising 
and sharing their social activities like never before. That’s the thinking behind the forecast for an  80 per cent rise in 
revenues for the next quarter from Snap, the parent of messaging app Snapchat as it announced its results.
The flurry of earnings statements over the past few weeks has offered us a range of insights into consumer 
behaviour as well as a guide to the changing fortunes of the world’s biggest companies as vaccines brighten 
economic prospects and economies, in the richer parts of the world at least, reopen for business. 
Pandemic winners and losers
 US banks were among the biggest winners in the first quarter, benefiting in particular from a boom in investment 
banking. Record profits were also announced by the likes of asset manager  Blackstone, boosted by rising 
prospects of economic recovery and backstopped by government support programmes.
Retailers, particularly those reliant on bricks-and-mortar outlets, have endured a difficult time as stores were forced 
to close.  Inditex, the world’s largest clothing retailer, reported a sharp fall in full-year profits, made worse by the 
trend for stay-at-home loungewear rather than the fast fashion favoured by the likes of its Zara chain. Discount 
store Primark  reported plunging profits but is ploughing on with openings on hopes that pent-up demand would 
drive consumers back in store. 
After enduring the worst year in aviation history, first-quarter announcements from US  airlines were peppered with 
optimism that “the worst is behind us” and hopes that the summer holiday season could yet be saved. In Europe, 
Ryanair chief  Michael O’Leary told an FT audience this week that corporate travel could be back to pre-pandemic 
levels by 2022.
Announcements from the  luxury sector have been even more optimistic, indicating damage from the pandemic 
could be overcome as early as this year as shoppers in the US and China more than compensate for the lack of 
sales from shuttered boutiques in European capitals. Hermès yesterday reported revenues 33 per cent up on the 
same period in 2019, while  LVMH, the world’s biggest luxury group, last week recorded an increase of 8 per cent.
Consumer companies offer some interesting insights into societal changes. US group  Procter & Gamble lost sales 
on razors as men toiled at home unshaven, but more than made up for the shortfall from the boom in cleaning 
products.  Nestlé, the world’s biggest foodmaker, reported its fastest quarterly sales growth in a decade as caffeine 
heads swapped their usual café visits for Nespresso pods and splashed out on home baking ingredients.
Obvious losers have been sectors relying on live events such as concerts and professional sports.  Informa, the 
world’s biggest exhibitions organiser, announced a £1.1bn loss and said it expected large-scale physical events to 
be one of the last parts of the economy to return to pre-pandemic trading levels.
One question still to be resolved is whether  “stay at home” stocks that benefited from the pandemic, such as video 
conferencing company  Zoom, can continue to expand as life returns to some kind of normality. There will be more 
clues next week with quarterly statements due from Apple, Amazon, Facebook and Microsoft.
Global economy
Services in the eurozone have  returned to growth for the first time since last summer while manufacturing is 
expanding at its fastest since records began in 1997, according to IHS Markit’s PMI survey. “Pent-up spending, 
restocking, investment in new machinery and growing optimism about the outlook have all helped fuel a further 
record surge in both output and new orders”, it said. The  European Central Bank said the recovery still had a long 
way to go as it kept interest rates on hold at its latest monetary policy meeting.
 Consumer confidence and spending in the UK is rebounding quickly as the second quarter gets under way, 
according to new research data and confirmed by official figures on debit and credit card transactions.  Retail sales 
in March rose strongly as Britons stocked up on food for Easter and clothes and gardening products. The UK’s 
pandemic support measures have pushed  borrowing to its highest level since the second world war. 
Business
The true scale of pandemic damage to UK business may be revealed when “the dam of zombie businesses” 
breaks this summer as government support measures come to an end. The number of companies in serious  
financial distress has risen at the fastest rate in more than seven years, according to insolvency group Begbies 
Traynor. 
The continuing huge demand for home PCs during the pandemic helped chipmaker Intel mitigate losses from its 
data centre business as it reported first-quarter results. Global PC sales peaked at more than 350m in 2012 before 
falling below 260m in 2018, only to jump back above 300m last year. 
Pandemic winners and losers
Falling demand for newsprint and office paper has been turbocharged by the pandemic, dealing a harsh blow to the 
paper industry. Finland’s  Stora Enso said it would close two paper mills and reduce capacity by more than a third. 
The shift has, however, been cushioned by the demand for packaging materials as online shopping continues to 
grow. 
Markets
As a strong US bounceback fuels fears of economic overheating, funds that hold inflation-protected bonds are 
enjoying their  highest inflows since the aftermath of the global financial crisis. “[Treasury Inflation-Protected 
Securities] are not going to give you great yield or return potential, but if you are worried about a significant upside 
surprise in inflation, there is really no better investment out there that can act as a hedge,” said one analyst.
“For equity markets, the parallels between current conditions and those of 1999 are striking and worrisome,” writes 
Citi strategist  Tobias Levkovich in the FT. Investor euphoria, driven by the fear of missing out and the widespread 
belief that “this time is different”, indicates a market correction could be on the horizon, he argues. 
Developing countries borrowed on foreign markets at record speed in the first quarter but a resurgent virus in 
countries such as India and Brazil means risks are mounting for investors in  emerging market debt.
Have your say
XTRS comments on  The new frontiers of hybrid work take shape:
As a social science academic, I have been working in a hybrid mode since the early 2000s, when laptops 
became powerful enough to run advanced statistical packages. What are the benefits of this? I am by far more 
productive at home than in my office. I work faster and on more sophisticated issues. All my research projects 
have been produced at home. In my Department room, I work on my repetitive tasks (for example, marking 
exams) and have meetings with my students, the staff and the faculty.What are the main problems with this 
hybrid model? You need a considerable amount of self-control, and you should learn how to manage your time 
and when to stop working. Many academics are crazy workaholics, and the average working time exceeds any 
healthy standards (many surveys show this). I employed several years adjusting my life to this, and now I am 
more efficient.
Final thought
The diversity of nominees for the 93rd Academy Awards is being touted as a watershed moment for the film 
industry. Here’s  everything you need to know about Sunday night’s Oscars.
We would really like to hear from you. Please let us know what you think of this newsletter, or send any thoughts or 
suggestions to . Thank you.
Load-Date: April 23, 2021
End of Document
The anatomy of a private equity roll-up
The anatomy of a private equity roll-up
 
FT.com
April 22, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1551 words
Body
One event to start: join DD’s Sujeet Indap next week for a look at distressed debt markets and his recently 
released book The Caesars Palace Coup. Joining him will be investors from Elliott Management and Oaktree 
Capital as well other key characters from the Caesars bankruptcy case. Details and sign up  here.
In case you missed it: here’s  the link to watch yesterday’s DD Forum event with Michael O’Leary, chief 
executive of Ryanair. He told the FT’s Peggy Hollinger that  he predicted a full recovery for business travel. 
Welcome to Due Diligence, your briefing on dealmaking, private equity and corporate finance from the 
Financial Times. Want to receive DD in your inbox? Sign up  here. Get in touch with us anytime: .
The vets business: what happens when a cottage industry goes corporate
The veterinarians group IVC Evidensia was shaping up for one of London’s biggest initial public offerings in years. 
That is, until Silver Lake and Nestlé swooped in with a last-minute deal in February. 
The transaction let IVC’s private equity backer EQT keep the sought-after company private for longer, and remain 
as its largest shareholder. It also gave IVC  a “stratospheric” €12.3bn valuation.
When you look behind the dealmaking and the huge valuation that surround the company, which is Europe’s largest 
vetcare provider, there lies a complex story. DD’s Kaye Wiggins and the FT’s Judith Evans dug deep in  this Big 
Read. 
IVC is what is often referred to as a private equity roll-up: it’s been buying up vet clinics and merging them into a 
giant group, in a debt-fuelled acquisition spree. 
The anatomy of a private equity roll-up
It believes its greater scale can bring better management, and introduce new technology and training that will help 
with both administration and animal care.
While IVC says its UK market share is under 20 per cent, it has a big presence in some areas. 
As of last year, it ran 17 of the 32 vet practices in Birmingham, five of seven in Torfaen, South Wales, and four of 
five in Lancashire’s Ribble Valley, according to an analysis by the consultancy Aldwych Partners.
To the outside world, that transformation has been largely invisible. The company, which owns 1,500 practices, 
doesn’t tend to rebrand them, and some continue to champion their longstanding local links.
People don’t want their local vet to feel like a “corporate machine”, one adviser close to the company said. 
Meanwhile, drug prices have risen. 
IVC doesn’t force prices on to practices, but does recommend them centrally and set financial targets for clinics — 
and the attempt to meet these targets can lead to increases. 
Prices rose as much as 78 per cent for a heart medication, according to one vet in southern England, although IVC 
says the average rises were far lower.
Then there is leverage: £2bn in net debt and leases, against £322m in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation. 
And there are other hallmarks of private equity ownership such as projections of rapid growth and of expanding 
recurring revenue from subscriptions. 
Not everyone is convinced. In Ireland, the lawmaker Jackie Cahill wants to ban corporates from owning practices. 
A Hollywood mogul’s second shot at IPO fame
Conor McGregor, a two-division champion in Ultimate Fighting Championship, has been enshrined as the 
“Notorious” mixed martial artist, and one of the world’s top-paid athletes.
But the Irishman has endured setbacks, particularly his boxing loss to Floyd “Money” Mayweather in their 2017 
super fight. He’s reportedly rearing for a  $1bn rematch.
Such is the pervasiveness of another hard-charging character — Ari Emanuel, the Hollywood mogul who cuts 
McGregor’s checks, and is angling for his own second shot at glory. 
Emanuel’s Endeavor Group is at work on its second go at an IPO. The company’s portfolio includes UFC, the 
Miss Universe Pageant and Tinseltown’s biggest talent agency.
The company has taken some hits, namely a 24 per cent annual revenue drop and $625m in losses last year as the 
pandemic halted the fighting franchise it bought with Silver Lake and KKR in 2016. 
After a  shelved first attempt due to limited investor interest, it’s little surprise that Emanuel, who inspired the 
relentless, smack-talking agent Ari Gold on HBO’s Entourage, is back in the ring.
“Agents are like cockroaches. We’re going to survive nuclear war,” he once said,  according to The New Yorker.
A successful listing could also enshrine some lucrative payouts to the company’s early backers as well as its top 
brass. Endeavor’s filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission shows it has signed a tax receivable 
agreement with Silver Lake, KKR and a group of Endeavor executives, which could entitle them to payouts of 
$2.3bn over the next 15 years.
TRAs are one way founders and buyout groups squeeze extra cash out of a business. 
The anatomy of a private equity roll-up
Here’s how it works: when early investors sell or exchange their equity in the company a tax benefit is created for 
the business. As part of the deal, the company agrees to share 85 per cent of those tax savings with its early 
investors, keeping the remainder for itself.
The IPO is Endeavor’s last attempt (an investor roadshow kicked off just this week). 
It’s good news for some of Endeavor’s biggest investors, including Silver Lake, which bought a majority stake in the 
business in 2013, and its  co-chief executive, Egon Durban, who himself is a major shareholder and has chaired 
Endeavor since 2014.
KKR, The Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, Jasmine Ventures (a fund controlled by the Singapore 
sovereign wealth fund GIC) and Coatue Management — the  secretive hedge fund run by billionaire and “tiger cub” 
Philippe Laffont — are also listed in the filing as principal stockholders.
Endeavor  hoped to raise $712m from its aborted 2019 IPO. This time around the company hopes to raise as much 
as $1.8bn — $1.3bn from private investors including Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala and New England Patriots owner 
Robert Kraft that it has already agreed, and the remaining $500m from new investors in its float.
HSBC: putting it all on red
Noel Quinn, the chief executive of HSBC, isn’t going to “flip-flop” his strategy to double-down on China just 
because there’s been another spark in tensions between Beijing and the west.
“We’re not a political organisation and we don’t want to be,” he told the FT’s banking editor Stephen Morris in an  
interview.
Yet the British finance multinational, which traces its origins back to Hong Kong in 1865, has been caught in the eye 
of the storm caused by China’s controversial national security law in the former UK colony, as other western 
institutions  quietly excuse themselves from the crossfire.
The bank  revealed plans earlier this year to further shrink its European and US operations to hire thousands more 
wealth advisers in mainland China, where it already manages $1.6tn of wealthy clients’ assets.
Quinn has been  criticised by UK politicians for his support of the crackdown in Hong Kong, including his decision to 
freeze the accounts of pro-democracy activists. Labour MP Chris Bryant accused him of “aiding and abetting one 
of the biggest crackdowns on democracy in the world”.
But the leader of Europe’s largest bank has never appeared to be bothered by the opinions of others. Last year he 
delivered one of the bank’s  largest shake-ups in years, all with the disclaimer “interim” in his title as the bank 
courted former UniCredit boss Jean Pierre Mustier.
It appears a public beating is worth the rewards of expanding in China.
Job moves
•
Shearman & Sterling has hired Sanjeev Dhuna as a leveraged finance partner in its finance group, 
based in London. He joins from Allen & Overy. 
•
Former US congressman Will Hurd has become a managing director at Allen & Company, according to 
his LinkedIn  profile.
•
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer has  appointed 31 new counsel. 
•
Clifford Chance has hired Susan Burkhardt as a partner in New York. She joins from Apollo Global 
Management, where she was a managing director.
Smart reads
The anatomy of a private equity roll-up
The great cubicle exodus Millennials are burnt out, slightly richer and unwilling to return to office life. It’s the 
perfect storm for a mass migration from fluorescent-lit corporate drudgery and companies are scrambling to keep 
their ranks from wandering. (  New York Times)
Jack Ma’s media monopoly Alibaba is best known for its ecommerce empire, but it’s the group’s vast media 
portfolio, which includes the South China Morning Post and a large stake in Twitter-esque Weibo, that’s caught the 
eye of the Chinese Communist party. (  Nikkei Asia)
Notes from ‘the little guy’ The triumph of European football’s existing rulers over the Super League is more the 
result of a clash of cartels than a David-over-Goliath victory. Fans, meanwhile, remain an afterthought, writes 
Robert Shrimsley. (  FT)
News round-up
 Bain Capital considering bid to take Toshiba private (Reuters) 
 US satellite company Dish taps Amazon for 5G launch (FT)
 Super League plan collapses as more clubs pull out (FT) 
 Uber Eats plans Germany launch in challenge to Just Eat Takeaway (FT) 
 Wirecard given no ‘privileged treatment’, says German finance deputy (FT)
 Tesla apologises after Chinese state media attacks (FT)
 Apple supplier Quanta hit by cyber attack (FT)
 Crédit Agricole secures majority backing for $1bn Creval bid (Reuters) 
 Workplace software group UiPath jumps on NYSE debut (FT)
Load-Date: April 22, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair chief predicts full recovery for business travel
Ryanair chief predicts full recovery for business travel
 
FT.com
April 21, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 553 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Peggy Hollinger
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary expects business travel to make a full recovery from the pandemic, marking him out 
as one of the most optimistic figures over the future of a lucrative part of the industry that has been wiped out over 
the past year.
O’Leary said he expected corporate travel to return to pre-Covid-19 levels by 2022 unless the pandemic 
unexpectedly worsened and  vaccines did not allow people to travel freely again.
“All of these predictions business travel is dead . . . they generally always prove to be wrong,” he told the Financial 
Times’s Due Diligence Forum on Wednesday.
His confidence stood in contrast to several other figures in the airline industry, who have warned that the successful 
adoption of video conference technology such as Zoom meant the business travel segment would take a  long-term 
hit from the pandemic. 
Shai Weiss, Virgin Atlantic’s chief executive,  told the FT that he expected a 20 per cent reduction in the coming 
years, while Jeffrey Goh, chief executive of Star Alliance, the world’s largest airline group, forecast up to a third of 
trips would disappear.
In normal times, 30 per cent of Ryanair’s passengers were flying on business, with another 30 per cent visiting 
friends and family and 40 per cent travelling for leisure. 
Ryanair chief predicts full recovery for business travel
O’Leary expected a “small decline” in company executives travelling around the world for internal meetings, which 
he thinks will be  lost to video conferencing.
“But there is going to be a dramatic, I think, recovery in what I would call short-haul business travel, people out 
there meeting suppliers, visiting suppliers they haven’t seen for a year, out there making sales calls, getting 
conferences back and going again,” he said. 
Yet O’Leary’s confidence came amid growing concerns over the immediate outlook for air travel.
Investors have sent airline  shares lower on both sides of the Atlantic over the past two weeks, including a run of 
ten straight days of losses for US carriers through to Monday’s close.
Iata, the global airlines group, said on Wednesday that carriers were on track to lose nearly $50bn this year, worse 
than previously forecast, as borders stayed closed longer than expected.
Moody’s also warned that a surge in Covid-19 infections and slow progress on vaccinations in continental Europe 
was putting increasing pressure on balance sheets, as it lowered its forecasts for passenger traffic this year.
“Unless there is a timely recovery in their operating performance and free cash flow generation, airlines may face 
intensifying pressure to raise capital and dispose of assets to avoid getting more debt, and to protect their balance 
sheets,” said Stanislas Duquesnoy, an executive at the rating agency. 
O’Leary’s optimism extended to the European  summer holiday season, which he predicted would take off from 
June because of vaccinations. 
He said bookings had risen in the past two to three weeks from 400,000 a week to 700,000, although that is still at 
only 30 per cent of normal levels. 
“I think you will see much more freedom of movement this summer between the UK and Europe, on the basis of 
vaccinations and vaccination certificates,” he said. 
O’Leary predicted that the carrier had a “reasonable chance” of breaking even in this financial year, which runs until 
March 2022, but added that was the best he could hope for.
Load-Date: April 22, 2021
End of Document
A JPMorgan -backed plan to upend European football crumbles
A JPMorgan-backed plan to upend European football crumbles
 
FT.com
April 21, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1526 words
Body
One event happening on Wednesday: will air travel ever be the same? Join the FT’s Peggy Hollinger as she 
interviews Michael O’Leary, the chief executive of Ryanair, on all this and more during DD Forum at 5pm 
BST/12pm EDT.
Sign up  here to watch it live, or on-demand later.
Welcome to Due Diligence, your briefing on dealmaking, private equity and corporate finance from the 
Financial Times. Want to receive DD in your inbox? Sign up  here. Get in touch with us anytime: .
Super League clubs exit the pitch
Football fans across Europe are celebrating a rare win after a passionate game that has been played off the pitch. 
Plans to create a breakaway Super League, featuring the richest and most storied football clubs in Europe, is on 
the verge of falling apart amid mass opposition from fans, football pundits and politicians. It took just 48 hours. 
It began on Tuesday as English football clubs Chelsea and Manchester City were first to say they were preparing 
to  pull out of the competition. It came just a matter of days after they had agreed to join 10 other clubs from 
England, Spain and Italy in the league. 
Within a few hours, the other English football clubs involved — Arsenal, Liverpool, Tottenham Hotspur and 
Manchester United — followed suit. 
Their exit effectively marks the end of the project and an embarrassing defeat for its powerful architects, which was 
masterminded by Florentino Pérez, a Spanish  industrial tycoon and president of Real Madrid. 
A JPMorgan -backed plan to upend European football crumbles
Among his supporters in the project who will be laying low after the disastrous reform efforts are Andrea Agnelli, a 
scion of the Italian billionaire dynasty that owns Italy’s Juventus and whose defection prompted  sharp words from 
the head of Uefa, European football’s governing body. 
It is also a big blow to bankers at JPMorgan Chase who have worked with Pérez for years on the idea and who 
had committed to underwriting a €3.25bn “infrastructure grant” that would have been shared among the clubs as a “  
welcome bonus” on joining the competition.   
One former JPMorgan banker looks to have lost his job as a result of the mayhem. That would be Ed Woodward, 
Manchester United’s executive vice-chair,  who the club said would step by the end of this year. 
Their defeats amount to an easy win for  a chorus of politicians — including Boris Johnson and Emmanuel 
Macron who were able to tap into the populist anger of fans whose fury came from the Super League’s desire to 
create a competition with  15 permanent members and only five other qualifying spots.
It’s clear that the Super League’s participants hadn’t anticipated the wave of opposition they would face by trying to 
turn the world’s favourite sport into a moneymaking machine that would benefit a select circle of clubs to the 
detriment of all others.
As the FT’s Murad Ahmed and DD’s Arash Massoud  i  revealed on Tuesday morning, backers of the league 
planned to introduce measures from revenue-sharing arrangements to strict spending limits with the goal of creating 
a more reliable business model that pays out year after year, akin to US leagues like the NBA.
Of course, they would also have ensured stakeholders a more steady flow of returns. It’s worth pointing out that 
many participating teams have American owners that identify with the financial structure of US sports:
•
Liverpool — John Henry, the billionaire investor who also owns the BostonRed Sox baseball team and 
The Boston Globe newspaper;
•
Manchester United — the Florida-based Glazer family that owns the NFL’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers; 
•
Arsenal — Stan Kroenke, owner of the NFL’s Los Angeles Rams and the Denver Nuggets basketball 
franchise.
If you’re thinking this sounds like it’s all about the money, that’s because it is. Football clubs such as FC Barcelona 
and Inter Milan have taken  huge hits to their balance sheets since the start of the coronavirus pandemic. 
And it’s not lost on us that the first two clubs to pull out of the Super League are owned by billionaires, who can 
afford to listen to the fans.
Because the plans were so shortlived we did not have time to learn whether broadcasters, streaming services, and 
sponsors would have signed up to sponsor the Super League matches, which were predicted to generate more 
than €4bn a year in revenue streams. 
That’s roughly double the amount earned by the Champions League, the premier European competition that the 
Super League sought to displace. 
One person involved in the Super League talks told Murad: “I read [the terms of the new league] again today, and 
thought, where the **** are the fans on this?” 
Today, many of them are likely celebrating.
(Don’t forget to  subscribe to our  Scoreboard newsletter, produced in conjunction with the DD team and delivered 
every Saturday morning.)
Credit Suisse: insiders recount the red flags
A JPMorgan -backed plan to upend European football crumbles
Earlier this month we chronicled Credit Suisse’s quest to  rein in Casino Suisse after consecutive scandals, as it 
dealt with the blowback from the implosions of Greensill Capital and Bill Hwang’s Archegos.
The collapse of Greensill’s controversial supply chain finance operation could cost the Swiss bank’s clients as much 
as $3bn. 
As for Archegos, Credit Suisse itself faces losses of at least $4.7bn. Meanwhile, shareholder payouts have been 
cancelled and bankers face  big bonus cuts. 
It’s hard to believe that just five months before Greensill Capital’s collapse, Credit Suisse invited a special guest to 
present to its top ranks in Asia: Lex Greensill himself.
But then again, maybe not. In interviews with the FT, six current and former Credit Suisse managers said the bank 
hollowed out risk expertise and trading acumen in favour of promoting salesmen and technocrats. Read it in full  
here.
The Chinese asset manager testing Beijing’s patience for bailouts
Huarong Asset Management, China’s largest distressed debt manager, is no stranger to distress of its own.
Its former chair Lai Xiaomin, found guilty of taking Rmb1.8bn ($280m) of bribes, was executed in January in a 
dramatic ending to the most  severe corruption case since the founding of the People’s Republic of China in 1949, 
according to the judge.
But now all eyes have turned to  a far larger sum: the $22bn of dollar-denominated bonds owed by the state-owned 
company. 
Investors in those bonds, including BlackRock, have been on a rollercoaster ride since Huarong announced it 
would delay its 2020 results at the end of March, after which trading in its stock was suspended in Hong Kong.
The latest moves came on Tuesday evening in Asian time, when prices of Huarong dollar bonds fell after Reorg 
Research, a US-based group, reported that regulators were considering a restructuring.
Later that evening, Huarong International, the unit which issues or guarantees most of its offshore debt, said it 
returned to profit in the first quarter in a statement posted on WeChat, the Chinese social media platform.
The incident highlights a trade-off for international investors with exposure to corporate China. Companies like 
Huarong, which is majority owned by the ministry of finance, are believed to be fully supported by the government 
if they come under financial pressure. But these companies can also lack transparency. 
The west has already undergone over a decade of debate about moral hazard and government bailouts following 
the near collapse of its banking sector during the financial crisis. In China, the terms of that debate are still taking 
shape.
Job moves
•
Anne Wojcicki, chief executive and co-founder of 23andMe, will become a non-executive director of UK-
based online used car retailer Cazoo’s board following its New York listing via a  blank-cheque deal.
•
Houlihan Lokey has hired Jonathan Guskind as a managing director in New York. He joins from Morgan 
Stanley, where he spent more than a decade.
•
White & Case has hired Lionel Shawe as a partner in Johannesburg. He joins from Allen & Overy.
•
Advisory firm Gleacher Shacklock has hired Petros Stylianides as a managing director. He was 
previously at BMO Capital Markets, where he co-headed the European power, utilities and infrastructure 
team.
Smart reads
A JPMorgan -backed plan to upend European football crumbles
The devil still wears Prada The world is ready for a couture-fuelled “roaring twenties” of post-pandemic luxury, 
Condé Nast’s top editor Anna Wintour tells the FT. But the Vogue publisher’s unfashionable history of diversity 
issues will also define its future. (  FT)
Defying logic The Infinity Q Diversified Alpha Fund presented investors valuations of its large derivatives portfolio 
that seemed to be a stretch given the market, and in one case, mathematically impossible. The SEC and the FBI 
are rechecking their calculations. (  Wall Street Journal)
News round-up
 Canadian National tries to gatecrash Kansas City Southern deal with $33.7bn bid (FT)
 Ari Emanuel’s Endeavor shoots for $10bn valuation in IPO (FT) 
 CVC steps back from plans to take Toshiba private (FT)
 Discord ends sale talks with Microsoft (Reuters) 
 UK court clears William Hill’s £2.9bn takeover by Caesars (FT) 
 Berkshire directors rebuked over pay for likely Buffett successors (FT)
 Clubhouse: $4bn valuation ignores downloads in freefall (FT Lex)
 Hedge fund giant warns of Spac blow-up after betting $1bn (Bloomberg)
Load-Date: April 21, 2021
End of Document
Will hedge fund Elliott prescribe GSK a hefty dose of activism?
Will hedge fund Elliott prescribe GSK a hefty dose of activism?
 
FT.com
April 20, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1523 words
Body
One big story to start: dynasties. Billionaires. Politics. Money. Power. The biggest battle in global football is taking 
place off the pitch. Go deeper into the FT’s coverage of the breakaway European “Super League” with this  news in-
depth piece.
Plus, one invitation to start: as we all await the green light to travel again, in what state will we find the aviation 
industry? Join the FT’s Peggy Hollinger as she interviews Michael O’Leary, the chief executive of Ryanair, on all 
this and more for our next DD Forum on Wednesday. Sign up  here to watch it live, or on-demand later.
Welcome to Due Diligence, your briefing on dealmaking, private equity and corporate finance from the 
Financial Times. Want to receive DD in your inbox? Sign up  here. Get in touch with us anytime: .
Hedge fund Elliott jabs its latest big activist target 
A new question has entered the small talk repertoire: which vaccine did you get? Was it Moderna? Pfizer? Maybe 
Johnson & Johnson? 
One name you’re unlikely to hear is GlaxoSmithKline. The British drugmaker is  notably absent in the race to bring 
a Covid-19 vaccine to market. Its struggles have fed broader concerns surrounding the company, its drug pipeline 
and most crucially, its leadership. 
The attention over GSK’s bare cupboard is increasingly falling on the shoulders of Emma Walmsley, its chief 
executive since 2017. 
Murmurs of discontent among shareholders about her lack of a scientific background have seeped out and now one 
of the most feared activist investors on Wall Street has put itself in a position to do something about it. 
Will hedge fund Elliott prescribe GSK a hefty dose of activism?
The FT  revealed last week that hedge fund Elliott Management had quietly built a multibillion pound stake in 
GSK. 
The news may have come as a surprise to most of the drugmaker’s employees, but investors appeared to be 
relieved. 
Shares in GSK, which had fallen 14 per cent since Walmsley took over, rose 6 per cent after Elliott’s stake was 
revealed. 
It may have seemed that Walmsley had pre-empted an activist shake-up by announcing in 2018 that she would 
break up GSK — spinning off its consumer health business to allow it to focus on delivering “breakthrough 
medicines”. 
Yet as the split looms, shareholders fear that the company has little to show for it.
The group’s recent reinvestment in oncology — a lucrative market where novel drugs can fetch high prices and 
trials are shorter — has hit several speed bumps, from scrapped trials to delayed approvals.
It’s difficult to know whether GSK’s lagging R&D productivity is bad luck or poor planning, but Elliott is not leaving 
anything to chance. 
DD believes the activist fund is likely to push for the sale of GSK’s consumer health business ahead of the planned 
demerger. But it is unlikely to stop there. 
After several years in charge, Walmsley’s destiny and that of GSK itself may now be linked to how well she gets 
along with her newest shareholder. 
Read our latest deep-dive on GSK  here. 
Jammin’ like crazy at Goldman
Is Goldman Sachs more imposing than ever? 
Over the past couple of years, Wall Street’s shiniest brand seemed to collect a bunch of scuff marks. 
First was the fallout from the 1MDB scandal. At one point, chief executive David Solomon apologised directly to 
the people of Malaysia for the bank’s role in the multi-billionaire dollar looting of the nation’s sovereign wealth fund. 
(Solomon and other executives had some of their pay clawed back and Goldman settled with the USDepartment of 
Justice for  $2.9bn.)
Add to that a number of high-level departures and overworked junior bankers drafting pitch books filled with their 
grievances, and Goldman’s glory days seemed to be a distant memory. Maybe not. 
Last week, Goldman  announced an extraordinary 31 per cent annualised return on equity in the first quarter. 
And conditions couldn’t have been more perfect: bankers were busy with record activity level driven by Spacs as 
risk managers kept  Archegos losses off its books. 
Its arch-rival Morgan Stanley, meanwhile,  would disclose a $1bn hit from its prime brokerage relationship with Bill 
Hwang’s family office.
In 2006, the peak of the pre-crisis rollicking era of Wall Street banking, Goldman delivered a similar 33 per cent 
ROE. But that came with a balance sheet levered at 23:1, almost double what Goldman carries in today’s more 
conservative era. 
The upshot: Goldman’s core business, leverage aside, has perhaps had its greatest quarter ever. It even brings 
memories of one of our favourite pieces of content from 15 years ago: “  Jammin’ like crazy at Goldman”.
Will hedge fund Elliott prescribe GSK a hefty dose of activism?
JPMorgan Chase had the second highest ROE at 23 per cent, which though impressive, was hurt by low interest 
rates that continue to plague its core lending businesses.
Morgan Stanley, which would have otherwise looked back on the first quarter as one of its best, will now bear the 
black mark of Archegos for at least another quarter.
Anthony Tan Grabs for Gold
 Anthony Tan has never been shy about going for what he wants.
Just two years after founding Grab, his Uber-like taxi service, he was already unabashedly ambitious. “If we get this 
right, we can literally go into the history books,” the entrepreneur, a scion of one of Malaysia’s wealthiest families,  
declared in 2014.
And in his latest display of confidence, Tan plans to  dramatically increase his control over Grab when it joins 
Nasdaq via a  $40bn Spac deal later this year. The transaction has awarded him 60.4 per cent of voting power 
despite having an equity stake of just 2.2 per cent, thanks to a dual class share structure.
If the amount of control in the hands of one man seems aggressive, that’s because it is. 
Such an overriding majority voting right for a chief executive was “unprecedented” for a company seeking a Spac 
route, one lawyer told the FT’s Mercedes Ruehl. 
Even for companies that have gone public the traditional way it is high, according to an FT analysis. For some, 
however, Tan’s level of power over the company won’t come as a surprise. 
That would be none other than Gojek, Grab’s longtime rival in south-east Asia. Both companies held merger talks 
last year — coerced by shareholders aghast by the cash they were burning through competing against each other 
— but the discussions fell apart in December. 
The reason? According to several people close to the negotiations, Tan wanted certain assurances about his 
position, demanding he be “CEO for life”.
Grab has denied the reports, but Tan’s grab for majority voting control does make you wonder. 
Job moves
•
Ian Hart, UBS co-chair of UK investment banking, has been appointed director-general of the UK 
Takeover Panel.
•
Jake Siewert, global head of corporate communications at Goldman Sachs, is leaving the bank to join 
private equity firm Warburg Pincus where he will reunite with Timothy Geithner, his former boss from the 
US Treasury department, who is a partner there.
•
The two heads of Credit Suisse’s prime brokerage business, John Dabbs and Ryan Nelson,  are to 
leave just weeks after the bank reported at least $4.7bn of losses related to the family office Archegos 
Capital. 
•
GameStop chief executive George Sherman, who has led the group for two years, will  step down on July 
31, or earlier depending on when a successor is appointed. 
•
Citigroup has appointed Philip Drury to global head of technology and communications. Before leading 
Citi’s banking, capital markets and advisory business in London, he headed equity capital markets from 
New York. He will be based in San Francisco.
•
Michael Daffey, former partner and chair of Goldman Sachs’ global markets division, has been named 
chair of crypto investment firm Galaxy Digital’s board of directors. 
Will hedge fund Elliott prescribe GSK a hefty dose of activism?
•
Jeremy Choy, HSBC’s head of technology M&A in Asia, is joining Chinese home appliance company 
Midea Group as its chief financial officer.  More here from Bloomberg.
Smart reads
That’s showbiz, baby “Agents are like cockroaches. We’re going to survive nuclear war,” Ari Emanuel, the 
Hollywood tycoon that inspired HBO’s Entourage once said. After a failed IPO and global pandemic, that theory is 
being put to the test. (  The New Yorker)
Wirecard gets political The aftershocks of Wirecard’s collapse have been felt by the executives and bankers 
behind the scandal. Now, Germany’s politicians will have to answer for how the staggering corporate fraud evaded 
detection. (  FT)
Dropping the ball After some high-profile successes, sports Spacs are finding fewer fans. Is the drop-off in activity 
a sign of trouble or an inevitable reaction to piping-hot markets? (  Sportico)
News round-up
 UK government to examine Nvidia’s $40bn Arm deal (FT)
 BaFin files insider trading complaint against Deutsche Bank board member (FT)
 Meituan to raise $10bn in delayed deal after share price drop (FT)
 Takeover Panel to review shadow bidding (The Times) 
 SpaceX wins $2.9bn Nasa contract to land Americans on the moon (FT)   
 Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala looks beyond resource roots (FT) 
 Tribune says Swiss billionaire Wyss walks away from buyout bid (Reuters)
 HSBC top brass forced to hot desk as HQ scraps executive floor (FT)
 Robinhood traders might have had a point on Hertz (FT Opinion)  
 EG Group buys restaurant chain Leon for £100m (FT)
Load-Date: April 20, 2021
End of Document
Intrigue, plotting and private equity’s chess game at Toshiba
Intrigue, plotting and private equity’s chess game at Toshiba
 
FT.com
April 14, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1479 words
Body
One invitation to start: as we all await the green light to travel again soon, in what state will we find the aviation 
industry? Join the FT’s Peggy Hollinger as she interviews Michael O’Leary, the chief executive of Ryanair, on all 
this and more for our next DD Forum on April 21.
Sign up  here to watch it live, or on-demand later.
Welcome to Due Diligence, your briefing on dealmaking, private equity and corporate finance from the 
Financial Times. Want to receive DD in your inbox? Sign up here. Get in touch with us anytime:
Toshiba’s corporate drama steps up a notch 
If you’re interested in corporate intrigue, boardroom plotting, private equity chess games and ultimately politics, it’s 
time to cast an eye over to Japan, where a fast-unfolding drama at the industrial conglomerate Toshiba pulls 
together all of those threads. 
We told you  last week about private equity group CVC’s $20bn offer for the company, which would’ve been an 
improbable win for the embattled chief executive Nobuaki Kurumatani, who used to work at CVC and was facing 
pressure from activist investors. 
Now Kurumatani is out — having decided to  step down amid a boardroom coup from the company’s “old guard” 
who wanted to block any CVC deal.
That leaves the future of any private equity deal, among other things, up in the air. 
Intrigue, plotting and private equity’s chess game at Toshiba
The old guard may not want a change in control, but the departure of Kurumatani doesn’t necessarily kill the 
prospect of any sale. 
For one thing, buyout groups KKR and Brookfield have been preparing rival offers for the company and may see 
this as their moment to shine. 
For another, CVC may calculate that walking away now could leave the impression that its bid was in part designed 
to support the ailing CEO. The group had been willing to give majority control of Toshiba to domestic investors to 
make its $20bn bid acceptable to the Japanese government.
The machinations come against an unhappy backdrop at Toshiba, which the FT’s Leo Lewis chronicles  here. 
That includes a profit-padding scandal, Toshiba’s US nuclear business Westinghouse filing for bankruptcy 
protection, the fire sale of its prized memory chip business, and an emergency share issuance that brought activists 
on to the scene. 
That brings us to last month, when Toshiba’s management suffered a  humiliating defeat in a clash with investors. 
Read up on the back story with this  deep dive from the weekend, by DD’s Kaye Wiggins and the FT’s Leo Lewis 
and Kana Inagaki. 
Grab: super app strikes super Spac deal
Just when it looked like things were going quiet in Spac-land, as exhausted investors took time to digest the 
enormous amount of dealmaking this year, we received news of the biggest blank-cheque merger to date.
Grab, the so-called Singaporean “super app” that provides everything from food delivery to digital payments, is  
going public in a merger with a special purpose acquisition company launched by the Silicon Valley group 
Altimeter, which values the company at almost $40bn.  
For perspective, Grab, which is backed by Japan’s SoftBank, was last valued at $16bn in a private fundraising in 
2019. The deal will see Grab raise more than $4bn in fresh funding, which will be led by a $750m cash injection 
from Altimeter.
There are already debates about whether Grab is worth the hefty valuation. Nevertheless, its 39-year-old founder 
Anthony Tan, a descendant of Malaysia’s wealthiest families, has won SoftBank founder Masayoshi Son’s stamp 
of approval. Read the FT’s profile on the charismatic entrepreneur  here.
Like most food delivery companies, Grab has experienced significant growth during the pandemic, with many 
people locked indoors and unable to eat out. But the business is yet to turn a profit and has burnt through cash at a 
rapid pace. 
The money has largely been spent on transforming Grab from south-east Asia’s answer to Uber into an application 
that offers digital banking services to a hugely underserved population. That indicates the company has huge 
potential for growth. But it’s not the only one. 
Grab is locked in a bitter rivalry with Gojek, another SoftBank-backed app. Both have spent huge amounts of cash 
to prove their dominance in south-east Asia.
Most of the money is spent trying to acquire customers who will stick around in the long run, but the barrier to entry 
is low and when rivals offer cheaper prices, customers don’t tend to stay loyal. 
This all comes as regulators in the US start to take a closer look at Spac fundraising and dealmaking, particularly 
the lofty projections touted by young companies.
So it hasn’t gone unnoticed that Altimeter has opted to lock-up its founder shares for three years. Typically, Spac 
founders have to wait only about six months before being allowed to sell out. 
Intrigue, plotting and private equity’s chess game at Toshiba
The Altimeter/Grab deal also offers some good lessons for budding Spac sponsors: you don’t have to raise a huge 
pot of cash to strike a big deal and, after a year-long boom, it’s worthwhile to look outside the US for targets. 
Black’s fact-finding mission at Apollo
Apollo Global Management has made billions flipping companies. Now, the group’s flair for refurbishment has 
turned within.
The unexpected  early departure of its founder Leon Black last month, following a report on the extent of his 
financial ties to the late paedophile Jeffrey Epstein, was just the first thwack of the hammer.
His successor Marc Rowan has wasted no time in  remodelling Apollo into a hunkering financial institution 
resembling more bank than buyout shop. Former chair of the US Securities and Exchange Commission Jay 
Clayton has replaced Black as chair, bringing several new independent directors in tow. 
Meanwhile Robert Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots football team, has stepped down from the Apollo 
board after a seven-year tenure.
But despite all these changes, one familiar face made an appearance at Apollo in late March.
Black quietly attended a meeting of top executives just days after he resigned from all of his leadership positions,  
sources told DD’s Mark Vandevelde and Sujeet Indap, in an effort to dispel investors’ concerns over his ties to 
Epstein.
The gathering was redesignated an “informational meeting” to accommodate Black, a large shareholder, but no 
longer a member of the executive committee.
As Apollo hastens to redefine itself in the post-Black era, its mission will be further complicated by the fact that its 
founder (in this case quite literally) remains a part of the conversation.
Job moves
•
BNP Paribas named former HSBC M&A specialist Jan Masek as its head of advisory in Switzerland. He 
will be based in Zurich.
•
Wilson Sonsini has hired Josh Beser as a partner. He joins the firm’s New York office from direct-to-
consumer travel brand Away, where he was general counsel.
•
Greenhill has hired Jennifer Fritzsche as a managing director. She joins from Wells Fargo. She will work 
with Pieter-Jan Bouten, previously head of Greenhill UK, who has been promoted to head of telecom and 
digital infrastructure.
•
Latham & Watkins has hired Carles Esteva Mosso as a partner in Brussels and Pedro de Rojas as a 
partner in Madrid. They join from the European Commission’s Directorate General for Competition and 
Linklaters, respectively.
•
S Sundareswaran, Morgan Stanley’s head of M&A in India, will leave the bank at the end of June to join 
Alta Capital as a partner.  More here from Bloomberg.
•
White & Case has hired Katie Hicks and Tim Sheddick as partners in London. They join from Shearman 
& Sterling.
Smart reads
Home court advantage Sports betting would have been unthinkable in the state of New York just a year ago. But 
revenue holes blown open by the pandemic (and sexual harassment claims against Governor Andrew Cuomo) 
have offered politicians a new perspective, and investors are bracing for a windfall. (  FT)
Intrigue, plotting and private equity’s chess game at Toshiba
Anchors aweigh The most expensive painting ever sold, a $450m da Vinci, never made it to the Louvre as 
planned for a special exhibition in late 2019. Instead, it sailed the Red Sea aboard Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed 
bin Salman’s 439-foot yacht. (  Wall Street Journal)
Draft season Manhattan district attorney candidate Tali Farhadian Weinstein, whose husband Boaz Weinstein runs 
a $3bn hedge fund, has amassed millions in donations from powerful financiers. Critics wonder if she can hold Wall 
Street accountable. (  Gothamist)
News round-up
 Credit Suisse counts $1.2bn exposure to Sanjeev Gupta’s steel empire (FT)
 Babylon in talks to list via ex-Groupon CEO Spac (Bloomberg)
 Deutsche Bank dodges bullets and goes mainstream (FT)
 Terry Smith pockets £30m in 2020 (FT)
 Kwarteng puts pressure on Gupta to refinance his steel empire (FT)
 Carlyle Group to take majority stake in Beautycounter cosmetics brand (Reuters) 
 Activist fund Petrus starts proxy fight at German bank Aareal (FT)   
 Goldman Sachs to open Birmingham office in tech push (FT)
 China fines Spac-linked fallen tech tycoon $37m over IPO fraud (Nikkei Asia)
Load-Date: April 14, 2021
End of Document
Decoding Microsoft ’s M&A decisions
Decoding Microsoft’s M&A decisions
 
FT.com
April 13, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1579 words
Body
One event to start: will we ever travel overseas again? And what will be the status of the aviation industry when 
we do? Join the FT’s Peggy Hollinger as she interviews Michael O’Leary, the chief executive of Ryanair, on all this 
and more for our next DD Forum on April 21.
Sign up  here to watch it live, or on-demand later.
Welcome to Due Diligence, your briefing on dealmaking, private equity and corporate finance from the 
Financial Times. Want to receive DD in your inbox? Sign up here. Get in touch with us anytime:
Microsoft, the M&A machine 
Hey Siri, what’s Satya Nadella’s endgame?
It’s a fair question for the Microsoft chief executive. The software giant’s  plan to buy Nuance Communications — 
whose speech recognition artificial intelligence technology powers Apple’s all-seeing virtual assistant — raises 
some questions. 
It’s not that the software titan is new to mergers and acquisitions. It pulled off its  largest deal in 2016, when it 
purchased the professional social media network LinkedIn for $26bn, followed by smaller acquisitions of GitHub, 
the  online service used by some 28m software developers, and gaming companies  ZeniMax and  Minecraft. 
Nuance would be its second-largest ever purchase, at an aggregate value of $20bn.
But the deal does raise questions about Microsoft’s strategy.
Decoding Microsoft ’s M&A decisions
The tie-up makes sense on some levels — Nuance and Microsoft were already partners, so combining will make it 
easier to tap into each other’s respective customer bases. But the numbers don’t quite add up, as the FT’s  Lex 
column explains.
Nuance’s revenue dropped 3 per cent in 2020, yet Microsoft’s offer of $56 a share is more than twice what Nuance 
traded at before the pandemic. It’s a drop in the bucket for Microsoft, whose market capitalisation is almost $2tn, 
and has $50bn in net cash, but an odd bet nevertheless.
The AI group also shares little in common with Microsoft’s other recent targets. After playing host to a revolving 
door of activists over the years,  includingCarl Icahn, Nuance zeroed in on machine learning and natural language 
processing in the healthcare sector.
“AI is technology’s most important priority, and healthcare is its most urgent application,” Nadella  tweeted on the 
logic behind the deal.
Microsoft has spent the past year chasing a mishmash of social media companies as a means to bring large-scale 
applications to its  Azure cloud platform.
DD readers will be all too familiar with the Microsoft/TikTok/Trump saga from over the summer, but here’s a  recap 
if you need one. Then in February, the FT revealed the software group had  also courted the social media platform 
Pinterest, which currently enlists rival Amazon Web Services as its infrastructure provider.
Microsoft has also been in discussions to acquire the chat app Discord in a deal that would likely value the 
company well above its last private mark, DD has heard.
It’s unclear where Nadella’s latest emphasis on the importance of building out Microsoft’s healthcare cloud offering 
fits into that mix. And the pivot might draw more attention than he’s used to.
While Nadella is regarded more like a tech scion than a seasoned dealmaker, he’s been placing bets at a rate that 
would land any of his Silicon Valley peers at Amazon or Facebook in a meeting with regulatory authorities. 
The play for Nuance will probably test the Biden administration’s  appetite for allowing powerful technology 
companies to strike deals. 
Cameron breaks his Greensill silence — and an inquiry follows
The intersection of finance and politics, or money and power, is a favourite theme for DD and our readers. So, we’re 
watching the latest major development in the UK’s growing Greensill scandal closely. 
Prime minister Boris Johnson has commissioned an  inquiry that will look at former UK premier David Cameron’s 
lobbying on behalf of Greensill Capital, the now-collapsed finance group.
Nigel Boardman, a former partner at Slaughter and May, will lead it. 
It’s a significant shift. Just three weeks ago Conservative MPs  blocked calls for an investigation by parliament’s 
Treasury select committee. 
This could result in Cameron facing awkward questions about his advocacy for the company, which is particularly 
embarrassing since, before becoming PM, he said former ministers should not be “allowed to use their contacts and 
knowledge — gained while being paid by the public to serve the public — for their own private gain”.
Reminder: Cameron had share options in Greensill, and  travelled on private jets that were financed through 
Greensill Bank, whose management is now under criminal investigation in Germany. 
The investigation was announced hours after Cameron, who had remained silent on the story for weeks, released a 
1,500-word statement admitting he made “mistakes” as he lobbied for Greensill, while maintaining that he didn’t 
breach any lobbying rules or laws.
Decoding Microsoft ’s M&A decisions
The former prime minister, who was a public relations adviser before entering politics, said there were “  lessons” to 
learn about communications with the government. 
All of this comes after another huge FT story on the unfolding crisis. On Friday night we revealed that Greensill 
Capital made loans to Sanjeev Gupta’s trading company on the basis of invoices that have raised  suspicions of 
fraud. 
The invoices purport to show Gupta’s Liberty Commodities sold products to four metals businesses — but they 
deny any dealings with Gupta’s group.
“We are copper producers and don’t even know what we would have bought from them,” the chief executive of one 
of the companies said. 
Johnson’s shock decision to push for a full-blown inquiry is just the latest way that the Greensill story, which the FT 
has been doggedly pursuing for years, has broken into the political mainstream. Catch DD’s Robert Smith talking 
about it on Sky News  here. 
Suez Veolia, Habemus Papam 
French finance minister Bruno Le Maire was “delighted”. Journalists  danced with joy. 
The occasion? After being locked in a bitter months-long takeover battle, Suez and Veolia — the world’s two 
biggest water and waste groups — have finally  reached a deal.
Shareholders were also pretty happy, as Suez and Veolia were up 7.7 and 9.6 per cent, respectively, writes the 
FT’s David Keohane from Paris. 
After months of backbiting, a poison pill, legal challenges, alternative proposals, interventions by market regulators 
and attempts at mediation by the French state, Veolia is buying its rival for €20.50 a share, higher than the €18 it 
had put on the table and which it paid to buy 29.9 per cent of Suez last year.
It’s also going to sell back a chunk of Suez to shareholders and private equity, creating a €7bn revenue company 
out of assets it was largely going to have to ship anyway to meet competition concerns. It was always  the most 
likely way out of this mess.
The tentative plan, which will allow for employees to jump in, is for private equity firms Ardian, GIP and Meridiam 
to take 40 per cent and Caisse des Dépôts, the French state investment arm, to take the rest. Suez says the new 
group probably won’t be listed. 
All told, Veolia chief executive Antoine Frérot is a happier man today than he was last week. 
It remains to be seen how happy Suez boss Bertrand Camus is, despite securing shareholders a significant 
amount more money. Or whether he’s going to run the “new Suez”. 
Job moves
•
Robert Kraft  has resigned as a member of Apollo Global Management’s board, effective immediately.
•
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer has named  22 new partners, effective May 1.
•
KPMG’s partners have approved the nomination of Jon Holt as the firm’s chief executive in the UK.  More 
here.
•
Millennium Management, one of the biggest hedge fund winners from last year’s coronavirus-driven 
market turmoil, has hired three former Goldman Sachs partners: Paul Russo, Scott Rofey and Jeffrey 
Verschleiser.  More here.
Decoding Microsoft ’s M&A decisions
•
Paul Weiss has hired David Tarr, the co-chair of Willkie Farr & Gallagher’s finance practice group, and 
Skadden Arps tax partner Brian Krause as partners in its corporate department. Both will be based in 
New York.
Smart reads
Old habits die hard Since it first pioneered the digital subscriber model, The Wall Street Journal has been the 
crown jewel of Rupert Murdoch’s media empire. But the paper’s resistance to change and a long-brewing battle 
between its editor and its new publisher threaten stagnation. (  New York Times)
After Archegos In the wake of the financial crisis, the Dodd-Frank Act was supposed to stop history from repeating 
itself. The Archegos saga shows that many of the rules have yet to be implemented more than a decade later. (  
FT)
Smile, you’re on camera The hard-partying surveillance company Verkada promised customers like Tesla and its 
venture capital investors that it was “virtually unhackable”. Consecutive security breaches and sexual misconduct 
within the company’s own ranks suggest otherwise. (  Bloomberg)
News round-up
 Credit Suisse cuts bonuses following Archegos loss (FT)
 Leon Black’s surprise Apollo Global exit came amid sexual harassment allegation (New York Post)
 Saudi Aramco raises $12.4bn from oil pipeline deal (FT)
 Columbia Threadneedle buys European investment arm of Canada’s BMO (FT)
 Thomas Gottstein: Credit Suisse boss buffeted by series of crises (FT)
 Ant ordered to restructure by Chinese regulators (FT)
 Kwarteng makes concession on new UK takeover regime (FT)
 ‘Russia’s Amazon’ plans heavy investment and move into finance (FT)  
 Senior KPMG executive faces scrutiny over M&C Saatchi audits (FT)
Load-Date: April 13, 2021
End of Document
Bumpy landing forecast for airline industry
Bumpy landing forecast for airline industry
 
FT.com
April 9, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1050 words
Byline: Darren Dodd
Body
Please forward this newsletter to friends and colleagues who might find it valuable. Even if they are not subscribers 
to the Financial Times, they can read the newsletter — and all of the FT — free for 30 days. And if this has been 
forwarded to you, hello. Welcome and please sign up  here.
Get the latest worldwide picture with our  vaccine tracker
Latest news
•
US producer prices beat forecasts to rise 1 per cent in March, fuelling fears of a return to inflation as the 
economy recovers
•
The European Medicines Agency is investigating a possible link between blood clots and the  Johnson & 
Johnson vaccine
•
France became the second country after Germany to offer a different vaccine to those who have received 
the AstraZeneca shot as their first dose
For up-to-the-minute coronavirus updates, visit our  live blog
Today’s move from  Tui, Europe’s largest travel company, to raise up to €400m to shore up its business is just the 
latest sign of the havoc wrought upon an industry devastated by the pandemic.
An uneven  vaccination programme and an increase in  infections and lockdowns have diluted hopes for the 2021 
European summer season, fuelling pessimism among investors, who sent Tui’s shares down in morning trading 
Bumpy landing forecast for airline industry
more than 7 per cent before they recovered to close 2 per cent lower. The company has already gone through a 
series of refinancing deals and reported a €3.2bn loss in the year to the end of September.
Governments around the world meanwhile are striving to inject hope into the airline industry. In the UK,  
government proposals to allow travel to certain countries from May 17 were criticised for the caveat that travellers 
must undergo costly PCR Covid tests. The plans follow another week of uncertainty for a sector that lost $118.5bn 
in 2020, the worst year in aviation history, with downgraded passenger forecasts from  Ryanair and new state aid 
for  Air France/KLM.
A handful of entrepreneurs such as Nino Singh Judge, a former motorsport businessman who calls himself the 
“Sikh Michael O’Leary” have found inspiration amid the chaos, founding  new airlines that can react quickly to new 
conditions rather than trying to adapt business models designed for very different times. The new carriers are 
targeting segments such as the VFR (visiting friends and relatives) market with slogans such as “fewer, smarter 
flights”. They also have plenty of resources to tap into: experienced crew and some 6,000 aircraft around the world 
are currently parked up doing nothing. 
Global economy
 Factory prices in China increased 4.4 per cent in March, the fastest rate since 2018, raising the possibility of rate 
rises and a tightening of economic policy. Consumer prices, which have turned negative in recent months, rose 0.4 
per cent. 
Industry confidence in a bounceback for global trade was reflected in a record month for container ship orders, 
buoying hard-hit shipbuilders in Asia. Liners signed deals for  72 vessels with a total capacity of about 866,000 20-ft 
containers, most of a similar size to the ship recently stuck in the Suez Canal for six days. 
The  European Central Bank is worried that the slow rollout of vaccines in the eurozone could harm economic 
recovery. Tensions over  supplies and  export restrictions continue to dog the bloc. 
Business
The FT revealed that AstraZeneca slashed the number of Covid-19 vaccines it will deliver to the EU this week by 
almost half as the company struggles with  production problems. The drugmaker now expects to deliver 1.3m doses 
to member states, plus Iceland and Norway, down from its mid-March forecast of 2.6m
Finance directors are hoping to save billions in office costs with the rise of homeworking. The Lex column says  
space requirements could drop by up to 20 per cent, equivalent to 226m square feet in the UK, or a saving of 
£60bn. UK ministers are  consulting business on the best way to implement social distancing in the workplace. 
Hot, sweaty and crammed with hundreds of strangers: nightclubs have little to recommend to infectious disease 
experts, writes leisure industries reporter  Alice Hancock. The UK’s night-time entertainment and hospitality 
industry, including theatres, bars, restaurants and clubs, generates at least £66bn a year — about as much as the 
country’s airline industry — but can venues be made safe?
Markets
Confidence in a strong economic recovery and a calm in bond markets are driving  European and US stocks 
towards a record week. By contrast, markets in China tumbled on fears of greater price pressures. 
Optimism for a strong US bounceback has given the dollar a real lift in the first few months of this year. The  dollar 
index, which measures performance against other major currencies, is up 3.6 per cent in the first quarter, its best 
run since 2018.
Bumpy landing forecast for airline industry
After a year of pandemic-induced market gyrations, and despite talk of a green recovery, the US is focusing again 
on its traditional pursuit of cheap oil from abroad, writes US energy editor  Derek Brower. Although still a bargain 
compared with Europe, pump prices for Americans have risen 45 per cent in the past 12 months.
The Essentials
How are vaccination programmes across the world faring? Science editor Clive Cookson and pharma 
correspondent Hannah Kuchler answered  readers’ questions today.
Fed up balancing that laptop on the edge of the kitchen table?  Jonathan Margolis has some smart standing desk 
solutions. 
Have your say
Reader asdfasdf comments on  Offices: homeworking will save employers billions:
The cost of office space will not be eliminated, simply passed on to employees who are forced to upsize their 
homes to avoid working from the kitchen table. It’s all in line with the gig-ification of the economy where 
companies save costs by forcing employees to bear the costs of doing business (See: Deliveroo workers 
paying for their own bikes).
Final thought
A moderniser who became more traditional, a man once dubbed “HRH Victor Meldrew”, after the famously grumpy 
UK television character, came to be seen as a national treasure. More than six decades’ service at those two paces 
behind the Queen had earned him that, writes Brian Groom in his obituary of  Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, 
whose death was announced earlier today. 
We would really like to hear from you. Please send your reactions or suggestions to . Thanks
Load-Date: April 9, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair blames slow EU vaccine rollout for low passenger forecasts
Ryanair blames slow EU vaccine rollout for low passenger forecasts
 
FT.com
April 7, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 502 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Ryanair has warned it will carry fewer passengers than expected over the next year and struggle to turn a profit 
because of the slow rollout of vaccinations across much of Europe.
The low-cost carrier said lockdowns and travel restrictions had hit travel during the Easter period, and it expected a 
delayed recovery in traffic into the summer season. 
It now forecasts passenger numbers in the year ending March 2022 towards the lower end of a previously guided 
range of between 80m and 120m.
The warning came as new figures revealed the depth of the crisis facing the industry, with bookings for this summer 
on airlines across Europe at under a fifth of normal levels.
Although several airlines have trumpeted an increase in summer business, the International Air Transport 
Association on Wednesday said passenger bookings for travel across Europe between May and September had 
reached just 15 per cent of 2019 levels by March 20.
Ryanair warned that some analyst forecasts predicting the carrier would return to profit over the next year were too 
optimistic. 
“While it is not possible at this time to provide meaningful full-year 2022 profit guidance, we do not share the recent 
optimism of certain analysts,” Ryanair said, adding that it expected to approximately break even. Analysts had 
forecast profit after tax of €277m, according to Bloomberg. 
Ryanair blames slow EU vaccine rollout for low passenger forecasts
Just two weeks ago Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, struck a more bullish tone as he predicted a strong 
summer of travel across Europe, saying the airline would be flying 80 per cent of normal schedules by June. 
Analysts believe Ryanair will, over the long term, emerge from the crisis as a winner in European aviation, helped 
by a low cost base and strong balance sheet. 
For now, however, the airline remains exposed to travel restrictions and rising cases across much of continental 
Europe. 
The UK government has taken a cautious approach to reopening its borders, which are closed until mid-May at the 
earliest, and this week Boris Johnson, the prime minister, warned it was still too soon to book a summer holiday.
“The current delay on UK government travel guidance is playing havoc with airline planning,” said Mark Simpson, 
an analyst at Goodbody.
Parts of continental Europe are back in lockdown as caseloads rise, leaving an uncertain outlook for the crucial 
summer season, which should have begun over Easter.
Most airlines have been cautious in predicting their summer plans. Sean Doyle, the chief executive of British 
Airways, on Tuesday said he would wait for further guidance on summer holidays from the UK government before 
confirming flight schedules. 
Ryanair expects to record a net loss before exceptional items of between €800m and €850m for the year ending 
March 2021, slightly better than its previously guided range of between €850m to €950m. The airline carried 27.5m 
passengers over the year, down from 149m in the previous 12 months.
Ryanair’s share price closed at €16.85 on Wednesday, more-or-less unchanged on the previous session. 
Load-Date: April 16, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair damps hopes of breaking even this year due to faltering EU vaccine rollout
Ryanair damps hopes of breaking even this year due to faltering EU vaccine 
rollout
 
FT.com
April 7, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 831 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Ryanair damped hopes that it might break even this year, blaming a slow vaccine rollout across Europe.
The no-frills airline narrowed its expected loss for the year ended March to between €800m and €850m before 
exceptional costs, from a previously guided range of €850m to €950m. Traffic for the year totalled 27.5m, down 
from 149m the year before, the airline said. 
For the current year, traffic is likely to be towards the lower end of a previously guided range of 80m to 120m 
passengers due to Easter travel restrictions and the slow EU rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, said Ryanair.
“While it is not possible (at this time) to provide meaningful full-year 2022 profit guidance, we do not share the 
recent optimism of certain analysts as we believe that the outcome for 2022 is currently close to break-even,” the 
company said in a trading update. 
Briefly
Speciality chemicals maker Croda has agreed to buy Parfex, a fine fragrance business based in Grasse, France, 
for a total enterprise value of €45m. Parfex creates fragrances principally for premium personal care and fine 
perfumery markets, generating €3.6m of ebitda in 2020, Croda said. The company is 82 per cent owned by its 
founders, with the remainder listed on Euronext’s junior Access market
Ryanair damps hopes of breaking even this year due to faltering EU vaccine rollout
Royal Dutch Shell flagged that extreme cold weather in Texas over the first quarter would cost up to $200m. In an 
update ahead of quarterly results due April 29, Shell said winter storms in Texas would cut adjusted earnings from 
its upstream business by up to $40m and that the out-turn from its integrated gas trading division would be 
“significantly” below average. The company guided for refined oil product sales at between 3.7m and 4.7m barrels 
per day for the first quarter.
Saga, the insurer and cruise line operator, posted a £61.2m pre-tax loss for the year ended January, which 
reflected £59.8m goodwill impairment against its travel business in the first half. “Market risk and cost of debt levels 
have since reduced, reflecting a more positive outlook and stronger recovery prospects in the travel industry than 
was the case at the half year,” the company said. Saga reported a “strong” liquidity position following a capital raise 
in September, with total available cash of £75.4m at the year end plus another £100m of undrawn revolving credit.
Hilton Food said its operating performance since the start of 2021 has been in line with management expectations. 
The food packaging business posted a £66.9m operating profit for 2020, up 19.9 per cent year on year.
Pub landlord Marston’s said it has secured waivers and amendments from its bank covering the financial periods 
up to the start of 2022. It expects to reopen around 700 pubs with outdoor spaces in England on or around April 12, 
equivalent to about 70 per cent of its managed and franchised estate, when regulations allow. 
Argo Blockchain, the £900m valued cryptocurrency miner, said it mined 165 bitcoin or equivalent in March with a 
value of £6.57m, compared with 129 coins worth £4.34m in February. This takes Argo’s mining revenues to £13.4m 
for the first quarter of 2021, the company’s most profitable quarter to date, it said.
Beyond the Square Mile 
CVC Capital Partners has made a $20bn offer for Toshiba, joining KKR and other private equity funds  in a 
potential bidding battle that could generate Japan’s biggest buyout deal in history, according to people with 
knowledge of the talks. CVC is expected to form a consortium with corporate and financial partners to finance the 
buyout and take the 145-year-old Japanese company private.
Grab, south-east Asia’s most valuable start-up, is set for  the largest merger between a private business and a 
blank cheque company in a deal that will value the SoftBank-backed technology group at about $35bn. Grab, which 
offers ride-hailing and financial services to consumers across Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam, could finalise an 
agreement to list in New York as soon as this week, according to three people with direct knowledge of the 
situation.
Austrian privacy activist Max Schrems has  filed a complaint against Google in France alleging that the US tech 
giant is illegally tracking users on Android phones without their consent. In a complaint, Schrems’ campaign group 
Noyb argued that in creating and storing unique advertising codes, similar to Apple’s Identifier for Advertisers 
(IDFA), without first obtaining explicit permission from users, Google was engaging in “illegal operations” that violate 
EU privacy laws.
Essential comment before you go
Helen Thomas
The latest “deal” between the UK and the EU was meant to clear a path to a new way of operating for the City of 
London. In reality, it feels more like  the end of the road.
Robin Harding
Hiking interest rates would cause a lot of collateral damage to the economy but  it would not do much to help 
younger people struggling to get on the housing ladder.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
Ryanair damps hopes of breaking even this year due to faltering EU vaccine rollout
Load-Date: April 7, 2021
End of Document
The high life at home: British Airways launches recipe box service
The high life at home: British Airways launches recipe box service
 
FT.com
March 26, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 570 words
Byline: Tom Robbins
Body
Is there any cuisine more maligned than that served at 38,000ft? We all know the jokes about the soggy salads and 
indeterminate meat but, secretly and a little guiltily, I have always rather adored it: the chewy, nutty little cheese 
rolls on Swiss, the chunks of real honeycomb on Turkish, Lufthansa’s pretzels, Virgin’s scones with clotted cream. 
On overnight flights, I make sure I’m awake in time for the pre-arrival sausage and eggs. I’ve even enjoyed 
easyJet’s mouth-scorching croque monsieurs, and in the distant past was known to dabble with Ryanair’s Bullseye 
Baggies, spirit shots served in plastic bags and always two for the price of one.
Objectively the food might not rival that served in restaurants on terra firma, but there is something deeply satisfying 
about the whole performance. Waiting for the trolley to reach your row, surveying the compartmentalised tray, 
fiddling with the Lilliputian salt and pepper shakers, fussing with the hot towels — tiny sacraments that presage the 
start of an overseas adventure.
All that has, of course, been swept away in the last year and I’m not alone in missing it. For four days in October, 
Singapore Airlines offered the chance to dine on an A380 that never left the ground; tickets sold out in 30 minutes. 
Now British Airways has stepped in to offer succour to frustrated frequent flyers: a new recipe box service, 
launching this weekend, which will deliver food from its first-class cabin to those grounded at home.
I tested it last week, a big cardboard box arriving on the doorstep with numerous smaller ones inside, emblazoned 
with BA stickers that could almost resemble luggage tags. All the packaging is recyclable or compostable and, like a 
real airline meal, it conveys a reassuring sense of order: a tiny pot contains one sprig of fresh mint in water, another 
has exactly three little orange pieces and one raspberry, precisely as per the recipe.
The high life at home: British Airways launches recipe box service
First was a starter of Loch Fyne smoked salmon (wonderful) and honey and mustard dressing (teensy bit 
overpowering); then 48-hour slow-cooked beef cheeks in a rich jus, with potato gratin, broccoli and chimichurri. 
Though you need to chop the ends off the broccoli, and slice parsley and coriander, this isn’t an exercise in 
flamboyant cheffery — core parts of the meal are supplied by BA’s caterers Do&Co and were designed to be 
prepared in an airborne galley. So, I discover to my relief, the 48-hour beef is actually sous vide — or, to put it more 
plainly, boil-in-the-bag — and is no less delicious for it, the richness of the beef cut through with the freshness and 
spice of the chimichurri. Next was a plate of four British cheeses, with sourdough crackers and fig chutney, then a 
hot, chocolate-studded bread and butter pudding with vanilla sauce.
It was the best thing I had eaten in months, but I wondered a bit at its purpose. For the most part, the recipe box 
trend has been about supporting local restaurants to make sure they are still there when pandemic restrictions 
ease. But BA’s parent  IAG lost €7.4bn last year — flogging a few DIY meals isn’t going to keep its planes in the air. 
Instead, it seems this is more about that modern mantra, “engagement” — providing a treat for the airline’s most 
devoted customers, a joyful reminder that one day we will be dining in the skies again.
 Tom Robbins is the FT’s travel editor 
Follow  @FTLifeArts on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first
Load-Date: March 29, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair to ramp up flights as it banks on return of summer holidays
Ryanair to ramp up flights as it banks on return of summer holidays
 
FT.com
March 24, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 354 words
Byline: Harry Dempsey
Body
Ryanair is banking on the return of summer holidays as the low-cost European airline plans to ramp up its flight 
schedule to 80 per cent of pre-pandemic levels from the middle of June.
Chief executive Michael O’Leary was upbeat on vaccine rollouts in the UK and EU helping to kickstart international 
travel this summer, after falls in European airline stocks this week over doubts about overseas vacations.
“We are very confident in this point in time that given the success of firstly the UK vaccine rollout programme and 
subsequently a European catch-up programme that by June or mid-June, July, August, families will be travelling to 
and from the UK,” he said.
Despite the travel uncertainty, the carrier said it planned to add 26 routes to its expanded UK summer schedule of 
flights to include locations in France, Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal. 
The expansion is in contrast to its more hesitant rivals. British Airways, for example, has cut the frequency of some 
flights over the summer as part of continuing management of its schedule. 
“We are sorry that, like other airlines, due to the current coronavirus pandemic and global travel restrictions, we are 
operating a reduced and dynamic schedule,” BA said. 
Ryanair’s current service is expected to run at about 50 per cent of normal levels until June, when it will increase to 
80 per cent, as tough coronavirus restrictions may remain in place in the UK and across Europe.
Ryanair to ramp up flights as it banks on return of summer holidays
When asked about potential passenger volumes, O’Leary said the airline could reach 85 to 90 per cent of normal 
levels in the later summer months.
His bullish comments fly in the face of the cautious approach to reopening borders adopted by the UK government, 
with social care minister Helen Whately warning against booking summer holidays.
The UK government set out a road map to reopen travel by mid-May at the earliest, which has helped trigger an 
uptick in bookings for carriers from a very depressed base.
After falling heavily on Monday, travel stocks have clawed back some of the losses. Shares in Ryanair, easyJet and 
BA parent IAG all rose about 3 per cent on Wednesday by lunchtime in London.
Load-Date: March 24, 2021
End of Document
AstraZeneca controversy intensifies as EU prepares to discuss export curbs
AstraZeneca controversy intensifies as EU prepares to discuss export curbs
 
FT.com
March 24, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1228 words
Byline: Darren Dodd
Body
Please forward this newsletter to friends and colleagues who might find it valuable. Even if they are not subscribers 
to the Financial Times, they can read the newsletter — and all of the FT — free for 30 days. And if this has been 
forwarded to you, hello. Welcome and please sign up  here 
Get the latest worldwide picture with our  vaccine tracker
Latest news
•
Ryanair, in contrast with more cautious rival airlines, has said it will increase flights to 80 per cent of pre-
pandemic levels from the middle of June
•
India, which is fighting a resurgence in infections, has found 771 cases involving coronavirus ‘variants of 
concern’, including a new ‘double mutant’ strain
•
US  durable goods orders fell back in February for the first time in 10 months
For up-to-the-minute coronavirus updates, visit our  live blog
US experts query trial results
Hopes that a reaffirmation of support from EU regulators and positive trial news would end the controversy around 
AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine have diminished again.
AstraZeneca controversy intensifies as EU prepares to discuss export curbs
Independent US experts have demanded more information from the company, saying trial results released on 
Monday were  misleading. The incident echoed a bungling of the initial vaccine announcement in November when 
AstraZeneca and developers at Oxford university reported confusing data about efficacy. 
The Anglo-Swedish drugmaker had hoped the trial results would end speculation that the jab could cause blood 
clots, which led several countries in Europe to suspend its rollout and caused jitters in the developing world where it 
is a central element of vaccination programmes. 
AstraZeneca has also been locked in a supply dispute with the EU, which says the company is not honouring its 
commitments and so should not be exporting outside the bloc to places such as the UK. Remarks from prime 
minister  Boris Johnson that the UK’s successful vaccination rollout was down to “greed” and “capitalism” will do 
little to ease tensions. 
European leaders — who meet tomorrow to discuss  export curbs — are angry that factories in the bloc have been 
exporting doses overseas while the EU has received none from elsewhere. Inspectors today identified a  stockpile 
of 29m AstraZeneca doses in Italy that would be blocked if intended for outside the EU.  
The European Commission proposals, published ahead of tomorrow’s meeting, enhance the existing authorisation 
scheme, allowing exports to be blocked even if the company was meeting its contractual commitments to Brussels 
and also if the recipient country already had a good supply of shots or was far ahead of the EU in vaccinating its 
population. 
The proposals are not specifically aimed at the UK, which heavily relies on EU deliveries, but at all countries that 
restrict vaccine exports to the bloc, encouraging them to do more to share their own production. Some argue export 
bans are not needed: only one shipment has so far been blocked — a delivery of AstraZeneca shots from Italy to 
Australia — while 381 have gone ahead as planned.  
Global economy
The US stimulus programme is fuelling optimism for growth, but risks remain from the uneven introduction of 
vaccines, changes in business models and increasing political tensions. Chief economics commentator  Martin Wolf 
takes stock of the global recovery.
Economics reporter Valentina Romei analyses the state of the UK economy on the first anniversary of  lockdown 
as the biggest drop in output for more than 300 years is compounded by the effect of Brexit on trade.  Inflation 
slowed down in February from 0.7 per cent to 0.4 per cent, according to data this morning, but is expected to rise as 
the economy reopens. A successful vaccination campaign is injecting hope into the  labour market and Britain’s 
dominant  services sector.
The pandemic, along with Brexit tensions in Europe, renewed aggravation between the US and China and the 
blocking of the  Suez Canal has laid bare the  problems in supply chains. Read the first part of our special report:  
Rethinking supply chains. 
Business
Private equity group KKR is working with BMG, one of the world’s largest music companies, on a hunt for music 
labels and catalogues as consumers become more willing to pay for  streaming services during the pandemic. 
Although notoriously ungenerous for most artists, streaming — which accounts for 62 per cent of global music sales 
— could help some offset the loss of touring income. Overall,  music industry revenues last year hit their highest 
levels since 2002.
Investment banking remains something of a sweatshop, writes chief business commentator Brooke Masters on 
the revelations that some  Goldman Sachs juniors were working 95-hour weeks. “Remote work has been a disaster 
for banks and other businesses that rely on an apprenticeship model,” Brooke argues, as the pandemic intensifies 
tensions between old-style tough management and the more balanced approach expected by millennial and Gen Z 
workers.
AstraZeneca controversy intensifies as EU prepares to discuss export curbs
The Covid-19 horror movie may soon be over: Cineworld will reopen US cinemas next month and UK venues in 
April, expecting  “business as normal” by the fourth quarter. Investors were less convinced by the timetable and 
sent the group’s shares down 8 per cent.
Markets
New fears about rising infections in Europe have put the brakes on the  “reopening trade”, hitting shares in 
companies expecting to profit from the return to “normality” and reanimating sectors such as tech that had benefited 
from lockdown and remote working.
Banks including JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Barclays still believe in the emergence of an oil supercycle where  
demand outstrips supply, despite the current “correction” in recent weeks that has seen prices fall because of 
vaccination slowdowns and renewed lockdowns. “This could end up being quite constructive for the price as it 
keeps the brakes on capital, which is what you need for a supercycle to develop,” said a JPMorgan analyst. 
Stock pickers such as hedge funds and actively managed share portfolios, outgunned in recent years by passive 
investment methods, could benefit from the global recovery, says US investment editor  Michael Mackenzie. “The 
long-term trends of technology and disruption are accelerating and the challenge for stock pickers is distinguishing 
how Covid transforms companies,” said an executive at BlackRock.
The essentials
For reasons obvious to CBU readers, booking a summer holiday in Europe this year is fraught with risk. Money 
Mentor  Lindsay Cook guides you through the options for travel insurance.
Have your say
Katsuwonus comments on  Unvaccinated sailors risk deepening global supply chain crisis:
Seamen are frontline workers and deserve the same priority as healthcare workers, carers and others that 
have been prioritised by governments. They are the largely unsung heroes that have kept the wheels of trade 
turning over the past year. The flag states of their ships should be responsible to vaccinate them, but with so 
many vessels registered to flags of convenience, some of them mini-states with no vaccines yet, it won’t 
happen. Yet another example of what is wrong with flags of convenience.
Final thought
Whether celebrating the relaxation of lockdowns or in need of solace from further restrictions, a glass of wine 
always helps. Columnist  Jancis Robinson picks out the best bottles for spring.
We would really like to hear from you. Please send your reactions or suggestions to . Thanks
Load-Date: March 24, 2021
End of Document
European airline shares fall as doubts over summer travel grow
European airline shares fall as doubts over summer travel grow
 
FT.com
March 22, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 485 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Shares in European airlines and other travel companies fell on Monday, as rising coronavirus cases on the 
continent accelerated doubts over the summer holiday season.
British Airways owner IAG dropped 8 per cent, holiday airline Jet2 fell 7 per cent, easyJet was 5 per cent lower, 
while low-cost carrier Ryanair slipped 3 per cent at the close in London after recovering from steeper losses at the 
open. 
The falls followed warnings from the UK government that a new wave of cases and lockdowns across large parts of 
continental Europe mean it is too early to book summer holidays, threatening a key source of revenue for the 
region’s battered carriers. 
Social care minister Helen Whately on Monday said she would advise people not to book summer holidays yet, 
because of the situation in Europe and the risk of new variants of Covid-19.
“I would say to people, just hold off,” she told the BBC.
Whateley’s comments came after Mike Tildesley, a member of the government’s Scientific Pandemic Influenza 
Group on Modelling, told the BBC over the weekend that international travel was unlikely this summer for the 
“average holiday-maker” because of the risk of introducing new coronavirus variants to the UK. 
European airline shares fall as doubts over summer travel grow
“Paris lockdown, Italy’s national restrictions and rising concern in Germany over infection rates . . . are being 
reflected in growing fears that a second summer of travel will be lost,” said Mark Wallace, an airlines analyst at 
Goodbody.
Carriers have reported surging bookings, albeit off a very low base, since the UK government set out a road map to 
reopening travel by mid-May at the earliest.
But that timeframe is now in doubt, and while airlines have built up a wall of cash to see them through the crisis, 
analysts expect more big European carriers will need new cash if this summer is a write-off. 
“The next few weeks will determine when travel can hope to resume safely,” said Daniel Roeska, an airlines analyst 
at Bernstein.
“We would argue that we will see a steady improvement throughout the year. While there can be individual weeks 
of increased demand, we would caution expectations against being too exuberant for summer,” he said. 
Airline stocks had rallied strongly this year as investors bet the sector would be one of the biggest beneficiaries of 
the reopening of major economies.
Some companies have taken advantage of the investor enthusiasm to beef up their finances against a delay in 
borders reopening. 
IAG raised €1.2bn in a bond issue last week, which it said would help it survive a prolonged downturn in travel.
The yield on IAG's €500m bond set to mature in 2023 rose from 2.1 per cent on Friday to 2.3 per cent on Monday 
morning while the yield on easyjet's €500m 2023 bond jumped from 0.8 to 0.97 per cent as some investors sold 
their exposure to the airlines. 
The yield on Ryanair's €850m bond set to mature in June rose from 0.3 to 0.5 per cent.
Additional reporting by Nikou Asgari
Load-Date: March 23, 2021
End of Document
AerCap /GE: heavy payload
AerCap/GE: heavy payload
 
FT.com
March 8, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 398 words
Body
No one looks forward to a resumption of air travel more than aircraft lessors. One in particular, Dublin-based 
AerCap Holdings, plans to bet its balance sheet on a post-pandemic take-off by buying  General Electric Capital 
Aircraft Services, valued at about $30bn. Adding the GECAS fleet — more than 1,600 planes in-service or on order 
— would make AerCap the undisputed world leader. 
Shareholders have high hopes. AerCap’s share price has more than doubled since late September. That trajectory 
reflects expectations of a global revival in airline travel. A glance at history reveals that prior to last year global 
airline traffic had only fallen in three of the previous 50 years, according to Ross Harvey at Davy. But  any pick-up 
will need time. Airline bookings by mid-February remained down some 70 per cent year on year, according to data 
from industry body Iata. 
AerCap takes a more optimistic view and has form for big acquisitions. Back in 2014, it paid $7.6bn to buy 
International Lease Corporation as part of a post financial crisis restructuring of insurance group AIG. 
GE has wanted to exit aircraft leasing, part of its diminished GE Capital unit, for some time. A combination with 
AerCap would create a group that owns around 2,000 planes out of more than 12,000 leased worldwide. AerCap 
should be able to better manage this larger portfolio by cutting costs. GECAS lost $786m in 2020, more than double 
AerCap’s loss. No purchase price has been reported. But one would expect AerCap to use shares given its 
enterprise value to forward ebitda ratio of 10 times is near 10-year highs.
AerCap argues that airlines will owe too much to debtors to put up new capital for aircraft when passengers do 
return. They will therefore need to lease planes. To prepare, the top seven lessors raised nearly $15bn in capital 
during January alone, not far from what was raised in the second half of last year according to Dealogic. But this 
AerCap /GE: heavy payload
demand could be met by the existing supply of 542 planes for sale or lease last year, more than double the 
previous year, using Airfinance Journal data.
Those interested in a leveraged bet may find AerCap’s proposition appealing. But airlines like Ryanair offer a more 
straightforward, less debt-heavy way to invest in the return of air travel.
Our popular newsletter for premium subscribers Best of Lex is published twice-weekly. Please sign up  here
Load-Date: March 8, 2021
End of Document
EU court rejects Ryanair challenge to state aid for rival airlines
EU court rejects Ryanair challenge to state aid for rival airlines
 
FT.com
February 17, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 365 words
Byline: Javier Espinoza in Brussels and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
A top EU court has rejected Ryanair’s legal challenge to state aid given to rival airlines  during the pandemic in a 
victory for the 27-member bloc.
Judges at the General Court said that government support, which was cleared by the European Commission, was 
not discriminatory. 
In reference to the French state aid scheme, the Luxembourg-based court said it was “appropriate for making good 
the economic damage caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and does not constitute discrimination”.
Support given by the Swedish scheme, the court said, was also “in the interest” of the bloc.
Ryanair has said it will appeal. “Now is the time for the European Commission to stop caving in to national 
governments’ inefficient bailout policies and start protecting the single market, Europe’s greatest asset for future 
economic recovery,” it said in a statement.
The European Commission said: “The General Court found that the French and Swedish schemes approved by the 
Commission were necessary, appropriate and proportionate and do not constitute a breach of the principle of non-
discrimination on grounds of nationality, nor do they involve an unjustified restriction on the freedom to provide 
services.”
European governments have poured billions of euros into helping national carriers during the pandemic.
EU court rejects Ryanair challenge to state aid for rival airlines
Ryanair has filed 16 cases to test the state aid rules in the European courts, and argues that support that is made 
available to national flag carriers only is discriminatory and undermines the EU’s single market in air travel.
The low-cost carrier said more than €30bn in state aid had been “gifted to EU flag carriers”.
“If allowed to stand, this will distort the level playing field in EU aviation for decades to come,” it said.
Ryanair draws a distinction between aid offered to specific companies only and schemes that are open to all, such 
as the UK’s Covid Corporate Financing Facility. Ryanair has accessed £600m of liquidity from this facility to shore 
up its balance sheet.
The International Air Transport Association, which represents the world’s airlines, has said that government support 
will be critical to stop airlines from collapsing as the disruption from the pandemic enters its second year. 
Load-Date: February 17, 2021
End of Document
Airline industry alarm as vaccine-led recovery hopes take a dive
Airline industry alarm as vaccine-led recovery hopes take a dive
 
FT.com
February 16, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1159 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis in London and Claire Bushey in Chicago
Body
Johan Lundgren wasted no time in dashing off a letter of complaint when a UK government minister recently 
warned it was too early to even think about booking a summer break.
The exasperation from Lundgren, the chief executive of easyJet, Europe’s second-biggest low-cost carrier, is 
understandable because the stakes are so high for an airline industry whose hopes for a vaccine-led recovery this 
year are already in jeopardy.
The pandemic shut the skies abruptly last spring, bludgeoning the industry as it endured the largest decline in flying 
since the second world war. Less than two months into this year, the danger facing airlines is more akin to a slow 
strangulation as country by country  travel restrictions are tightened and, in some cases, borders closed to prevent 
new variants of Covid-19 spreading.
For an $800bn industry built on moving people around, it is an alarming picture. Europe and the US have tightened 
travel restrictions; the UK introduced tougher quarantine rules on Monday while Australia’s borders are expected to 
stay closed until the end of the year. 
“Ever changing travel restrictions like quarantines are the single biggest barrier to customer bookings,” Lundgren 
told the FT.
Andrew Charlton, an aviation consultant, puts it bluntly: “The countries that have been really good at suppressing 
the virus have done it by killing international aviation.” 
Airline industry alarm as vaccine-led recovery hopes take a dive
New Zealand is among the nations to have pursued such an approach — its flagship airline carried just 6,000 long-
haul passengers in December. 
Even as vaccines continue to offer a long-term solution to Covid-19 — and most carriers still believe that this year 
will ultimately be better than last — signs of the renewed pressures are multiplying. 
The number of flights in European airspace has this month plunged to the lowest level since the first strict 
lockdowns were imposed last spring. Despite a domestic airline market buoyed by an economic recovery, China’s 
recovery has faltered as Beijing discouraged travel over the lunar new year.
Carriers have slashed their already meagre ambitions for the first quarter, with  easyJet and rival Ryanair expecting 
to fly just 10 per cent of their normal schedules.
In a sign of how the pandemic is again confounding the industry’s expectations, the International Air Transport 
Association, which represents airlines globally, admitted there is a growing risk that passenger numbers for this 
year will fall short of its projections. 
“We had been basing our forecasts on governments being able and willing to start lowering travel restrictions once 
the vulnerable part of the population has been vaccinated,” said Brian Pearce, Iata’s chief economist. “I think what 
we have seen in recent weeks is governments taking a much, much tougher, more cautious approach.”
With the outlook for carriers appearing to grow more fraught by the day, the ramifications run far deeper than 
ripping up passenger forecasts.
 Texas-based American Airlines this month warned 13,000 of its employees are at risk of furlough, blaming new 
restrictions on international travel and slow vaccine distribution. 
“We fully believed that we would be looking at a summer schedule where we’d fly all of our aeroplanes and need 
the full strength of our team,” chief executive Doug Parker said in a note to staff. “Regrettably, that is no longer the 
case.”
The measured language from the American Airlines chief sugarcoats the pain carriers have faced from having 
expectations repeatedly dashed during the pandemic.
Tony Douglas, chief executive of the Gulf carrier Etihad, said he had been hoping for a rebound in passenger 
numbers by the second half of the year, but “almost every time we revisit what’s going on it changes”.
For European airlines in particular, the prospect of mass vaccinations unleashing a surge in summer bookings was 
seen as key to repairing their balance sheets. “Summer is crucial, it is really critical” for European carriers, said 
Geoffrey Weston, a partner at consultancy Bain. 
The region’s five biggest carriers — Ryanair, British Airways owner IAG, Lufthansa, Wizz Air and easyJet — have 
already raised about $20bn from a mix of governments, shareholders and bond markets to help them withstand the 
crisis.
Analysts at Bernstein reckon that in the event of the worst-case scenario with little flying over the summer, only 
Wizz is likely to avoid having to raise more money. 
While the slow rollout of jabs in some countries has dimmed the chances of a firm rebound in international travel, 
the new enemy for airlines this year is more concerning: the spread of new Covid-19 variants that may be more 
resistant to the current stable of vaccines. 
A small trial that found the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine may be less effective at stopping milder and moderate 
cases of the South African variant only added to the pressure on the UK government to introduce the tougher travel 
restrictions this week.
Airline industry alarm as vaccine-led recovery hopes take a dive
It also complicates any attempt to achieve international co-ordination on travel rules between governments, 
something airline executives have long believed is necessary for a resumption of air travel on any scale.
Sweden and Denmark said they will offer digital coronavirus passports by the summer to help create international 
standards around certifying people as fit to travel. Beyond this, airlines have largely been left to develop their own 
solutions, working together to develop digital health passports that would provide certification of negative virus tests 
and vaccinations
But Wizz Air’s chief executive József Váradi acknowledges that “at this point in time, as an industry we do not own 
our own destiny, we are focused on political decisions.”
If governments are growing more focused on safeguarding their borders against new variants, shareholders have 
not given up on a rebound in passenger numbers this year. Airline stocks have largely preserved gains they made 
since November when many of the main vaccine developers revealed their jabs were effective. 
And like other airline chiefs, Lundgren of easyJet has not given up hope. 
“We have set ourselves up so we can take decisions as late as possible” on how many planes to fly over Easter 
and the early summer, he said.
When the recovery does arrive, the low-cost carriers may be best placed to capitalise as their short-haul businesses 
bounce back quicker than the long-haul that legacy European groups such as British Airways’ owner IAG and Air 
France-KLM rely on. 
In the US, the big carriers all predict a slower recovery in long-haul international travel than domestic. Its large 
domestic market at least offers operators a cushion not available to European long-haul specialists.
For an industry whose lifeblood is open borders, 2021 has already provided a reminder that any restoration of that 
remains a long way off.
“There isn’t anybody who could smile inside and think ‘I am in a better place than the competitors’,” said Douglas of 
Etihad. “Realistically everybody is exposed.” 
Load-Date: February 16, 2021
End of Document
Vaccinations mean vacations, at least for some
Vaccinations mean vacations, at least for some
 
FT.com
February 12, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 559 words
Byline: Tom Braithwaite
Body
The travel industry is optimistic about vaccinations unlocking vacations. The UK government is doing its best to kill 
the buzz.
“At the moment,” says Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary, “bookings have essentially collapsed. Nobody is 
flying up to Easter.” But he forecasts a rapid improvement, with a back-of-the-envelope estimate for April flights at 
10 per cent of pre-pandemic levels, 20 per cent in May, 30-40 per cent in June and 50 per cent for July to 
September.
Yet a  television advertisement from Ryanair that encouraged viewers to “Jab and go!” was last week banned by the 
UK’s Advertising Standards Authority, partly on the rationale that viewers would jam up doctors’ phone lines 
demanding an injection before they headed to the airport. 
Having done little to stop the virus entering the UK for most of the pandemic, the government is now forcing 
travellers arriving from 33 countries to spend  10 days locked up in a hotel or risk 10 years locked up in jail. Any 
other arrivals must quarantine at home and be tested.
A government that introduced a dining scheme that exhorted people to “eat out to help out” earlier in the crisis now 
warns them against booking refundable holidays six months in advance. “Please don’t go and book holidays for 
something that is illegal to do, whether it’s here or abroad,” the transport secretary said this week. 
Vaccinations mean vacations, at least for some
Yet however precarious the current situation, companies and many tourists are looking at a successful vaccine 
rollout and expecting the rules will be relaxed before the summer. 
 Tui, Europe’s largest travel group, this week reported that more than half of its 2.8m summer bookings had come 
from the UK. “It's our strongest market and also the market with the best vaccination programme,” chief executive 
Friedrich Joussen told analysts. “That’s all good.”
This phenomenon exists in other fed-up northern hemisphere countries. US budget carrier JetBlue forecast last 
week that its full-year capacity would recover to 70 per cent of 2019 levels. Spirit Airlines said on Thursday that its 
bookings were picking up and it expected to be back to 2019 levels by the summer.
Payments companies are hopeful too. Forecasting 19 per cent revenue growth in 2021, PayPal highlighted travel as 
a particular driver as soon as the second quarter. “As people begin receiving vaccines, there’s pent-up demand,” 
said chief financial officer John Rainey. “People want to take that summer vacation in 2020 that they missed.”
Will governments try to stop them? Subdued populations, frightened by the winter increase in cases and deaths, 
have tolerated lengthy lockdowns. That is unlikely to persist for long after the March anniversary of widespread 
restrictions.
As O’Leary, head of Europe’s largest airline, puts it: “If the UK has everyone over-65 vaccinated by the end of 
March, most of Europe by the end of May, there will be extraordinary resistance among populations to being locked 
down and told you can’t travel abroad.” 
There is one wrinkle. Ryanair’s banned advert showed a bunch of young adults jumping into a pool. But few 
countries will have fully vaccinated this group by the summer. 
If countries are willing to accept unvaccinated tourists, that should not matter. But if vaccines become mandatory, 
then only older people will be travelling in the short term. That would mean a grey summer after all. 
Load-Date: February 15, 2021
End of Document
Travel bosses fear summer season at risk after UK warns on holidays
Travel bosses fear summer season at risk after UK warns on holidays
 
FT.com
February 10, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 714 words
Byline: Sebastian Payne and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
The travel industry has criticised the UK government after ministers warned it was too soon for Britons to book 
holidays at home or abroad.
Grant Shapps, transport secretary, said on Wednesday that people should not book holidays internationally or 
domestically until there was a clearer plan for exiting lockdown, due to be announced by prime minister Boris 
Johnson later in February. 
Britons should “do nothing at this stage,” he said, adding that under current lockdown restricitons, anyone in the UK 
is currently banned from leaving the country for a holiday.
Michael O’Leary, the chief executive of Ryanair, accused ministers of “posturing” and said there is “almost a 
hysteria” about stopping people from travelling, particularly given the early success of the UK’s vaccination 
programme.
The airline boss said the UK would never be able to seal itself off from the world to stop new variants of Covid-19 
entering the country, and that travel should be opened up as soon as vulnerable people have been vaccinated. 
“I think there is going to be an unanswerable case to allow people to move freely again,” he said. “What’s the point 
of a successful vaccination programme if you aren’t going to use it to lift restrictions?”
Glyn Jones, chief executive of London Southend Airport, said Shapps’ comments were “the last thing we need” and 
that the summer season is “at serious risk”.
Travel bosses fear summer season at risk after UK warns on holidays
One executive from a major UK holiday provider said: “We don’t see — unless something goes wrong — how the 
government can reasonably stop travel in a nation that’s mostly vaccinated by May.”
The warnings over domestic and international  travel come days after holiday companies in the UK reported surging 
bookings for staycations. 
Last month health secretary Matt Hancock said he expected a “great British summer” and that he would be 
holidaying in Cornwall.
From  Monday the government is preparing to roll out tough new measures for travellers arriving into England in an 
effort to thwart the spread of new variants of Covid-19. 
Arrivals from 33  “red list” countries will have to quarantine in a hotel for 10 days, while all travellers will be required 
to take two tests — on day two and day eight — in addition to one they must take 72 hours before departure.
The travel and tourism industry said the latest measures could be ruinous for the summer holiday season and has 
called for a road map out of the increasingly strict restrictions.
“Losing one summer was very awkward, losing two summers would be a disaster,” Jones said. 
Shapps defended the new travel restrictions, which include the threat of a 10-year jail sentence for concealing a trip 
to one of the red list destinations, telling the BBC that introducing a new variant of Covid-19 could result in 
“impacting on a lot of people’s lives or indeed losing a lot of people’s lives”.
He said that a lengthy prison sentence would only occur for those who “deliberately went out of their way to mislead 
and lie” about their travel and avoid the rules.
The potential 10-year jail sentence was sharply criticised by two former Conservative attorneys-general — Dominic 
Grieve and Sir Geoffrey Cox, who questioned whether the punishment was proportionate. 
Charles Walker, a senior Conservative MP, said that health secretary Matt Hancock’s announcement on the jail 
terms was “a really stupid thing to say”, adding that it “demeans his office and position around the cabinet table”.
Airlines and airports are privately concerned that they are still waiting to hear details on how they should deal with 
people arriving from high-risk countries, according to two people familiar with the discussions. 
Airports have told the government they do not have enough staff to marshal passengers through terminals, and 
have instead suggested Border Force staff be used. Thousands of staff have been sacked or furloughed following 
the collapse in passengers caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
There is also concern within the industry that five days from the quarantine system going live there is no directive 
on whether to segregate passengers from red list countries, either on planes or at the airports. Direct flights from 
the high-risk countries are banned, meaning passengers will have to mix with people arriving from other countries.
Additional reporting: Alice Hancock
Load-Date: February 13, 2021
End of Document
Europe needs to mandate the right green fuels for aviation
Europe needs to mandate the right green fuels for aviation
 
FT.com
February 3, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 758 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger, International Business Editor
Body
Could history be about to repeat itself? In a few weeks, Brussels will publish proposals to help the aviation industry 
reach its goal of net zero emissions by 2050. 
These proposals would impose an EU-wide requirement for a minimum amount of green aviation fuel to be injected 
into the tanks of every aircraft refuelling in the bloc, along with expected incentives to develop fuel production 
facilities.
The last time the EU decided to lead the global charge on reducing emissions in aviation — one of the most difficult 
sectors to decarbonise because of the energy efficiency of kerosene fuel for aircraft — it sparked an acrimonious 
battle with the US. 
The attempt in 2012 to make airlines flying in and out of Europe join the EU’s emissions trading scheme was not 
only challenged by US airlines in court; US Congress even outlawed participation. In the end, Brussels restricted 
the rules to flights within the bloc.
Fast forward nine years and US airlines are again opposed to EU proposals, this time for a quota on green fuels, 
which may be up to 80 per cent less carbon emitting than traditional jet fuel over their lifecycle, but which remain 
two to four times more expensive.
Some European airlines, such as Ryanair, are also against an EU-only mandate for advanced biofuels, largely 
produced from household, municipal or industrial waste. 
Europe needs to mandate the right green fuels for aviation
Hit by the collapse in global air travel during the Covid-19 pandemic, no carrier wants to pay more for fuel, which 
has at times accounted for up to 30 per cent of airline operating costs, depending on oil prices. Nor do European 
airlines want to be undercut by rivals able to exploit cheaper fuel costs outside the bloc. 
The controversy over the EU’s proposals is not limited to quotas, however. Even supporters of the mandate are 
voicing unease over how the EU might define what is sustainable. Last month airline groups including Air France 
and Finnair, easyJet, and IAG,  called for the exclusion of crop-based biofuels from any mandate, to avoid 
unintended environmental consequences.
Environmental groups are also worried by differing definitions of what can be classified as a sustainable feedstock. 
Ultimately, some that are currently acceptable may prove unsustainable. This might be because there is not enough 
to meet competing demand from different sectors, as with used cooking oil. Or it could be because unintended 
consequences are eventually recognised.
For example, the residue generated from processing palm oil for the food industry — known as palm fatty acid 
distillate — is used by Finland’s Neste and France’s Total to create biofuels. While PFAD may be a residue, rather 
than a primary product of cultivation, its use has been criticised for enhancing the commercial viability of palm oil, a 
crop that has contributed to deforestation. 
But it is when the proposals are published in March that the real horse-trading will begin. Member states will push to 
water down or toughen up the rules to suit their industries. Sweden, for example, has indicated it wants a broad 
definition for sustainable fuels, including crop-based feedstock. Germany, on the other hand, is opposed to biofuels 
and wants to promote the use of next generation electrofuels, created by combining hydrogen extracted from water 
with carbon taken from the air.
Previous attempts in the EU to encourage the voluntary take-up of sustainable fuels through tax incentives and 
carbon trading rewards have failed. Renewable fuels today account for just 0.05 per cent of total jet fuel 
consumption in the EU. 
But the commission would waste an opportunity if it failed to use the forthcoming ReFuelEu strategy to go even 
further and accelerate the development of next generation electrofuels, which in time could overtake biofuels. The 
production process for them is still prohibitively expensive. But if enough renewable energy can eventually be 
supplied at reasonable cost, it offers even greater environmental benefits than biofuels, without the risks to land use 
or supply.
In the end it is debatable whether aviation as we know it can ever truly be emissions free. Electric and hydrogen 
technologies will be better suited to regional or shorter haul travel. But roughly half of aviation emissions are 
generated by wide-body passenger and freight long-haul flights that may be harder to replace by other modes of 
transport. For the biggest aircraft, there is no obvious solution other than liquid fuel. The faster the electrofuels 
industry can be developed, the more sustainable those flights will be.
peggy.hollinger@ft.com
Load-Date: February 4, 2021
End of Document
O’Leary blasts EU on vaccinations as Ryanair warns of potential €1bn loss
O’Leary blasts EU on vaccinations as Ryanair warns of potential €1bn loss
 
FT.com
February 1, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 520 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary called on the EU to “get its act together” on vaccinations as the airline 
warned it was facing an annual loss of nearly €1bn because of travel restrictions.
The boss of Europe’s biggest low-cost carrier said he was hopeful for a “strong recovery” in passenger numbers 
this year, but European governments need to “catch up” with the UK, which has administered nearly 10m vaccine 
doses. 
“Europe sadly is lagging behind . . . that to us is not acceptable. Europe needs to get its act together,” Mr O’Leary 
said on Monday in comments alongside the airline’s results. 
But despite the uncertainty, Mr O'Leary was confident the airline would benefit from a sharp recovery in travel this 
summer.
“We expect to see a very strong return of British families travelling to the beaches of Spain, Portugal, Italy and 
Greece in relative safety this summer,” he told the BBC.
The carrier is facing the worst performance in its 35-year history and forecasts a loss of between €850m and €950m 
in its current financial year, which runs to the end of March.
Losses over the Christmas quarter rose to €306m, excluding exceptional items, after passenger numbers fell nearly 
80 per cent to 35.9m. Revenue fell by a similar margin to €1.91bn.
O’Leary blasts EU on vaccinations as Ryanair warns of potential €1bn loss
EasyJet lost about €400m over the same period, while Wizz Air lost €114.5m. 
Like all other large European airlines, Ryanair was forced to slash its flight schedules through the autumn as 
anticipated demand for travel failed to rebound.
The outlook has since darkened considerably and European airlines are bracing themselves for a tough few months 
as governments try to stop people travelling to contain the spread of new variants of the virus.
EasyJet last week said it would fly just a 10th of its normal schedule in the first three months of this year.
Mr O’Leary is confident the recovery will accelerate from the second half of the summer as vulnerable people are 
vaccinated and that from the autumn Ryanair could be flying at between 70 and 90 per cent of normal levels.
The airline forecasts it will carry between 26m and 30m passengers in the year to the end of March, about a fifth of 
the previous year’s number, before recovering to 80m-120m passengers in the following 12 months.
“While the headline numbers on losses look worse than forecast, the market will be comforted that this has not 
compromised the strength of the balance sheet, nor the ability of the company to position itself to take market share 
in the expected recovery this summer,” Mark Simpson, aviation analyst at Goodbody said. 
With €3.5bn in cash available at the end of December, Ryanair has one of the strongest balance sheets and lowest 
costs in the industry. 
Mr O’Leary is bullish that the carrier will eventually be able to use the disruption to grow at the expense of weaker 
rivals.
For now, though, his airline is subject to the same challenges as competitors, and industry analysts warned that 
there was a growing danger there would be disruption to the crucial summer season.
“EU governments’ vaccine rollouts remain key to opening markets for the summer,” analysts at Davy Research 
said.
Load-Date: February 1, 2021
End of Document
US jobs report, Bank of England meeting, India budget
US jobs report, Bank of England meeting, India budget
 
FT.com
January 31, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1662 words
Byline: Julian Vickers
Body
The monthly US jobs report will add to the picture of what sort of an economy Joe Biden has inherited since he took 
over as president, while the Bank of England meets with interest rates just slightly higher than negative territory. 
India sets its budget for the year and the Super Bowl kicks off to a different advertising backdrop. We also have a 
first take on gross domestic product in the eurozone and earnings reports from tech titans Amazon and Alphabet, 
key pharma vaccine participants Pfizer and GlaxoSmithKline, as well as Royal Dutch Shell and low-cost carrier 
Ryanair.
India budget/air show
India’s finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveils the country’s annual budget on Monday.
Things are looking slightly better for India after a dramatic year. The  number of coronavirus infections appears to 
have fallen drastically and the pace of inflation slowed markedly in December, falling within the central bank’s target 
for the first time since the coronavirus pandemic began last year.
New Delhi unveiled a  $10bn stimulus package for the pandemic-hit economy in October, but many economists 
were not impressed and warned that the government was doing too little to revive growth after the shock of its 
coronavirus lockdown.
This time fiscal policy is expected to play a lead role in generating growth, as the central bank seeks a return to a 
more normalised monetary policy. 
US jobs report, Bank of England meeting, India budget
A spending round is on the cards as the government tries to chart a course out of the Covid-induced slump, with 
generous allocations expected for the vaccination rollout, social welfare schemes and capital expenditure, all while 
Ms Sitharaman seeks to gradually lower the country’s deficit.
•
India’s reversal of markets-based policies will hinder recovery
•
India’s consumers bear the brunt of New Delhi’s inflation paradox
The country also hosts Aero India 2021 this week, the first global air show to be held since the Covid outbreak.
The biennial event is usually a big draw for aviation groups and defence contractors but it is likely to be a very 
subdued affair, with visitors having to carry Covid test reports, while isolation centres are being set up to quarantine 
anyone with symptoms or fever.
Super Bowl
The biggest American football game of the year takes place this coming Sunday, but the pandemic is taking the 
shine off the Super Bowl for some of the most prominent commercial advertisers. 
Blue-chip brands such as Budweiser and Coca-Cola, which for decades have fielded memorable advertisements for 
the National Football League championship game, are opting out this year. 
Super Bowl ads have grown to become theatre unto themselves, with companies hiring A-list celebrities such as 
Brad Pitt and elaborate creative agencies to render funny, touching, or otherwise standout spots. 
But the pandemic has shifted attitudes among some brands about their potential return on investment for an in-
game Super Bowl commercial, which remains the priciest advertising real estate in US media. 
•
Big advertisers sit out Super Bowl during pandemic
Elsewhere . . . 
•
Liz Truss, UK trade secretary, is due to speak with ministers in Japan and New Zealand on Monday to  
request to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, with formal 
negotiations set to start this year 
•
Allies of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny are expected to  rally in his support as a court in Moscow considers 
jailing him for alleged violation of suspended sentence terms on Tuesday 
Earnings reports
We have more updates from the world of tech this week, where most of the big hitters have been weathering the 
Covid storm well. However, there are some fears in the industry that the  pandemic tech bubble echoes the one of 
the dotcom era. 
Google-parent Alphabet is expected to break the $50bn sales barrier, buoyed by a recovery in digital ad spending 
during the holiday season, a period that is also set to boost Amazon sales as customers flocked to its website 
during lockdowns.
However, Amazon’s popularity is likely to have been at the expense of ecommerce company eBay, where a fall in 
fourth-quarter revenue is expected. 
Ford Motor, which is undergoing an $11bn global restructuring under chief executive Jim Farley, is forecast to take 
a fourth-quarter hit owing to a $2.5bn charge related to its  exit from its Brazilian manufacturing operations. 
The carmaker has also called off its joint venture with Mahindra in India as it deals with the aftermath of the 
coronavirus pandemic and the global shortage of semiconductor chips.
US jobs report, Bank of England meeting, India budget
Staying with chips, Qualcomm is expected to post a jump in revenue in its first quarter, powered in part by Apple’s 
new 5G iPhones, while investors will also be keeping an eye on Chinese chipmakers SMIC and ASE.
Sales and updates concerning the vaccines developed by Pfizer and GSK, in partnerships with BioNTech and 
Sanofi respectively, will be in focus when the two pharma groups report, alongside any guidance on outlook.
Ryanair reports after  slashing its winter flight schedules in response to the new wave of lockdowns and travel 
restrictions in the UK and Europe. Despite this it seems  well placed to last out the crisis and CEO 
Michael O’Leary is  on the hunt for opportunities to increase the Irish airline’s dominance of European airspace.
BP and Royal Dutch Shell report after a tough year that added the pandemic-induced price crash to the already 
existing challenges of reversing historical underperformance while navigating the tricky transition to cleaner fuels.
Shell’s fourth-quarter results come just days before CEO Ben van Beurden is due to update shareholders on its 
strategy for navigating the energy transition. The company has already warned of a quarterly loss in its exploration 
and production division, as well as “significantly” weaker results from its oil trading business — a previous buffer for 
the group.
Revenues and earnings are forecast to take a dip at UK telco BT, which recently  shook up its core technology 
business as part of an effort to expand digital services as it attempts to improve returns and focus on new growth 
areas after shares hit an 11-year low last year.
Key reports
Monday
Nintendo; Ryanair; Hargreaves Lansdown
Tuesday
Amazon; Alphabet; Pfizer; ExxonMobil; BP; Electronic Arts; Ferrari; Panasonic; Imperial Oil; Alibaba
Wednesday
PayPal; Siemens; Sony; GSK; Spotify; Santander; Volvo; MetLife; eBay; Yahoo Japan; CNH Industrial; Royal 
Caribbean Cruises; Qualcomm
Thursday
BT; Ping An Insurance; Royal Dutch Shell; Philip Morris; Snap; Unilever; SoftBank; Ford Motor; Peloton Interactive; 
Pinterest; Prudential Financial; YUM! Brands; Nokia; Motorola; Deutsche Bank; News Corp; Carlyle Group; 
Yamaha; The New York Times; Gilead Sciences; Total
Friday
Sanofi; Estée Lauder; BNP Paribas; Aon; Intesa Sanpaolo; Carlsberg; Suzuki Motor; Honda Motor
Central banks and economic data
US jobs figures for January will be the week’s main release and help analysts pinpoint which sections of the 
economy are showing signs of recovery. 
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg estimate that this week’s non-farm payrolls will show that the US added just 
55,000 jobs in January. 
It follows a  loss of 140,000 in December — the first monthly decline since the early days of the pandemic in April — 
owing to increased restrictions to curb the spread of the virus.
US jobs report, Bank of England meeting, India budget
The number of long-term unemployed, or those who have been jobless for 27 weeks or more, jumped to almost 4m 
in December from 1.1m in February, before the pandemic. Overall, about 18.3m Americans are on unemployment 
aid and the US has 9.8m fewer jobs than it had in February. 
China’s PMIs will give the latest snapshot of the state of recovery as the world’s second-biggest economy heads 
towards the lunar new year holiday when  additional Covid restrictions will be in place.
Fourth-quarter GDP from the eurozone is likely to show that the economy contracted, bringing with it the prospect of 
a double-dip recession, though it is likely to be tempered somewhat by Germany, Spain and France holding up 
better than expected. 
Investors will also keep a close eye on US Institute for Supply Management surveys as global commodity prices 
and  shipping costs rise.
It’s a busy week for central banks, with the Bank of England meeting likely to draw most attention. Investors will be 
keen to hear what the thinking is from policymakers as lockdowns continue to weigh heavily on parts of the 
economy, and also on the viability of  negative interest rates as an easing tool. 
With the base interest rate at a record low of 0.1 per cent, there is very little wriggle room left. Still, for this gathering 
at least, the market expects the BoE to keep rates on hold.
Investors will be keeping an eye out for any clues to future policy at meetings in India and Australia, even if policy 
changes are unlikely at either just yet.
Economic activity continues to improve in both countries thanks to virus cases being kept under control, with 
economists noting that  Australia’s approach to suppressing the virus has boosted consumer confidence and 
enabled a faster recovery than many other nations.
Further reading
•
Market questions: Will the Bank of England loosen monetary policy further?
Key data and events
Monday
Ghana, rate decision
China, manufacturing PMI (Jan) 
Germany, retail sales (year on year, Dec)
US, ISM manufacturing index (Jan) 
Tuesday
Australia, rate decision 
Italy, GDP (Q4, flash)
Eurozone, GDP (Q4, flash) 
Hong Kong, retail sales (Dec)
Wednesday
Thailand; Iceland; Poland, rate decisions
China, services PMI (Jan)
US jobs report, Bank of England meeting, India budget
France, services PMI (Jan, final)
Eurozone, HICP inflation (Jan, flash) 
US, ISM services index (Jan)
Thursday
Bank of England; Czech Republic; Egypt, rate decisions
Europe, retail sales (year on year, Dec)
US initial jobs claims 
Friday
India, rate decision
Australia, retail sales (month on month, Dec)
US, non-farm payrolls (Jan) 
Canada, unemployment (Jan)
When central bank meetings run for more than one day they are listed on the date the meeting concludes and 
policy is announced
Load-Date: January 31, 2021
End of Document
UK airlines will hold on to airport slots without having to use them
UK airlines will hold on to airport slots without having to use them
 
FT.com
January 29, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 450 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
UK carriers including British Airways, easyJet and Virgin Atlantic will hang on to lucrative take-off and landing slots 
without having to use them this summer after ministers extended waivers to controversial airport rules. 
Airlines have parked their fleets during the crippling disruption caused by the pandemic, prompting the suspension 
of rules forcing airlines to “use or lose” their slots 80 per cent of the time. 
The suspension since the pandemic started has been criticised by rival airlines Ryanair and Wizz Air, which argue 
the waivers are anti-competitive and hope to profit from the disruption in the industry.
The decision is also a blow to London’s Gatwick airport, which has seen many of its biggest airlines switch their 
remaining operations to Heathrow, and  was pushing for airlines to be forced to use their slots. 
The Department for Transport will extend the waiver, which was due to be lifted in the spring, through the summer 
season, Airport Coordination Limited said on Friday.
The decision illustrates that ministers are expecting another difficult summer for the European airline industry as 
travel curbs widen.
It will be a relief for airlines including BA, easyJet and Virgin, which have been able to trim back their schedules 
while hanging on to spots at capacity-constrained airports. 
UK airlines will hold on to airport slots without having to use them
Take-off and landing rights are among airlines’ most valuable assets and can be traded for tens of millions of 
pounds.
“The risk for the UK is that a blanket waiver . . . may discourage airlines who are prepared to restart operations from 
investing in the UK market,” said Chris Butler, an analyst at ACL, which coordinates slot distribution. 
Airlines may decide there are better opportunities for growth through gaining slot rights elsewhere in Europe, he 
added.
Wizz had written to ministers over the rules in a bid to hoover up slots at Gatwick. 
The carrier’s chief executive Jozsef Varadi has warned rules are stopping him from making a significant investment 
at Gatwick, where he has floated plans of eventually operating up to 20 aircraft from just one currently.
Mr Varadi told the Financial Times this week that allowing airlines to hold on to slots through the summer without 
using them would be “mind boggling”. 
“London Gatwick at the moment is a ghost house . . . I think it is mind boggling that an airline who would be 
prepared to fly, and contribute to the welfare of the country and economy, is blocked because airlines are holding 
slots back,” he said. 
The UK has been able to set its own rules, which differ from EU proposals to phase the rules back in this summer 
with a reduced threshold requiring carriers to use 40 per cent of flights, following its departure from the bloc.
Load-Date: January 29, 2021
End of Document
EasyJet slashes flying schedule in response to travel restrictions
EasyJet slashes flying schedule in response to travel restrictions
 
FT.com
January 28, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 586 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
EasyJet has slashed its flying schedule in response to the travel curbs rippling across Europe that have deepened 
the aviation crisis.
It also revealed a loss of about £400m in the final quarter of 2020 as problems pile up for the airline industry. It 
suffered its first annual loss since its launch in 1995 in the financial year to September. 
The UK-based carrier said on Thursday it expected to fly “no more” than 10 per cent of 2019’s schedule between 
January and March, down from the 18 per cent it flew between October and December.
The outlook for European airlines has darkened as countries including the UK, Belgium and Sweden tighten border 
restrictions, raising questions over whether tourism will return for the summer season. 
European airlines, including British Airways’ owner IAG and Ryanair, are reliant on travel restarting for the summer 
season, when they earn the bulk of their revenue. 
Without a pick-up in time for the summer, analysts expect several carriers will be forced to raise more cash.
In the UK, easyJet’s largest market, the airlines have been hit with more travel restrictions as the government 
introduced hotel quarantine for arrivals from high-risk countries.
EasyJet’s chief executive Johan Lundgren urged the UK government not to go further and said a blanket approach 
to quarantining would “make no sense”. 
EasyJet slashes flying schedule in response to travel restrictions
He made his plea as chief financial officer Andrew Findlay said losses in the fourth quarter of 2020 were about 
£400m, although official figures have not yet been released. 
Mr Lundgren said he wrote “immediately” to the UK government to express his concern when ministers questioned 
whether people should book summer holidays this week, revealing new rules have already had a “small impact” on 
bookings. 
“I sent him a message back to say it would be more appropriate to say ‘check cancellation policies’,” Mr Lundgren 
told the Financial Times.
Wizz Air, the low-cost Hungarian carrier, also demonstrated it was not immune to the travel restrictions in its third-
quarter earnings on Thursday.
The airline, which has its eye on using the pandemic crisis to fuel  expansion across western Europe, expects the 
number of flights it operates “will continue to be depressed” for January, February and part of March. 
Airlines’ finances have been stretched to near breaking point over the past year, leading to a scramble to raise cash 
and cut costs. 
Revenue at easyJet fell 88 per cent in the final quarter of 2020 to £165m, but the carrier said it had made “material 
progress” cutting costs and forecast that it would burn £40m a week if planes were fully grounded.
The company had unrestricted access to about £2.5bn of liquidity at the start of this week, after it was boosted by a 
£1.4bn UK government-backed loan this month.
EasyJet’s figures reinforced “the bleak operating environment for airlines”, said Daniel Roeska, an aviation analyst 
at Bernstein.
“The company is preparing for a second half of winter that is even more challenging,” he said. 
Wizz Air also said it was focused on “preserving liquidity”, and had cash of €1.2bn to see it through the turmoil. 
The airline’s chief executive Jozsef Varadi told the FT that the carrier had enough cash to last it two years without 
flying a single passenger.
“Of course, we are not immune but we can bear the stress for so long as is required,” he said. 
The carrier reported a €114.5m loss for the three months to the end of December, lower than its €135m loss in the 
previous quarter, after revenues fell more than 75 per cent to €150m.
Load-Date: January 28, 2021
End of Document
Boeing delays 777X deliveries again as it posts record annual loss
Boeing delays 777X deliveries again as it posts record annual loss
 
FT.com
January 27, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 679 words
Byline: Claire Bushey in Chicago
Body
Boeing delayed the entry of its wide-body 777X jet into commercial service by another year and posted a record net 
loss of nearly $12bn for 2020, even as it began delivering the 737 Max to customers last month.
The company will not start delivering the 777X — which can seat 384 passengers — to airlines until late 2023, and 
has taken a charge of $6.5bn to reflect the programme’s decreased productivity. Several other charges brought the 
total for the quarter to $8.3bn.
The aerospace manufacturer attributed the delay to diminished demand because of Covid-19 and customer 
requests to take planes later, as well as an updated assessment of how long it will take aviation regulators to certify 
the plane.
David Calhoun, chief executive, told investors that Boeing planned to make design changes to the jet’s actuators, 
which convert electrical signals to mechanical movement, as well as the software that controls them, based on 
global regulators’ requirements. 
“This schedule, and the associated financial impact, reflects a number of factors,” Mr Calhoun said. “We remain 
confident in the 777X.”
The market’s demand for wide-body jets was already softening before the pandemic hit. The outbreak has further 
deflated the appeal of larger jets to airlines as  passengers’ appetite for international travel has lagged behind their 
return to domestic flights.
Boeing delays 777X deliveries again as it posts record annual loss
The 777X was supposed to enter commercial service in late 2020 before the company pushed that date out twice, 
most recently in July, to 2022. Previously, the delays were driven by problems with its General Electric engine.
Boeing’s financial results also reflected continued fallout from the 737 Max — which crashed twice in five months, 
killing 346 people — even as the plane began re-entering commercial service. The US Federal Aviation 
Administration  lifted its grounding order on the plane late last year, and the European Union Aviation Safety 
Agency formally  cleared the jet on Wednesday. 
So far five airlines have returned the Max to their schedules. Ryanair has  ordered 75 planes, and Alaska Airlines 
took delivery of one of the jets this week.
The company posted a fourth-quarter net loss of $8.4bn on revenue of $15.3bn, a 15 per cent drop in revenue 
compared with the same period a year earlier. Its full-year net loss of $11.9bn on $58.2bn in revenue, a drop of 24 
per cent compared with 2019, plummeted past 2019’s $636m loss. The 2019 net loss had been Boeing’s first 
annual loss in more than two decades.
Boeing shares fell 4 per cent to $194.03 on Wednesday.
“2020 was a year of profound societal and global disruption which significantly constrained our industry,” Mr 
Calhoun said. “The deep impact of the pandemic on commercial air travel, coupled with the 737 Max grounding, 
challenged our results . . . Our balanced portfolio of diverse defence, space and services programmes continues to 
provide important stability as we lay the foundation for our recovery.”
Boeing has been gradually slowing production rates and  cutting the size of its workforce as it attempts to manage 
the drop in demand from airlines. The company said in December it was cutting production rates on the 787 wide-
body jet, known as the Dreamliner, yet again. It is now down to five a month, from 14 originally.
Boeing also continued to spend cash rather than generate it, and Greg Smith, chief financial officer, said that 
pattern would hold in 2021. It said in October it  still hoped to begin to generate cash this year.
Much of the reason is that even though Boeing has begun delivering Maxes again — 40 since the grounding was 
lifted — it is not delivering 787s. The company has 80 of those planes in inventory as it checks them for flaws after 
workers in South Carolina installed  the wrong-sized shims in fuselage joints.
In the fourth quarter of 2020, Boeing’s free cash flow — operating cash flow minus capital expenditures, and an 
important metric for investors — was a $4.3bn outflow, compared to a $2.7bn outflow for the same period a year 
earlier. The outflow for the year was $19.7bn, nearly five times larger than in 2019.
 
Load-Date: January 27, 2021
End of Document
EasyJet sets sights on winning business from national flag carriers
EasyJet sets sights on winning business from national flag carriers
 
FT.com
January 25, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 577 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
EasyJet’s chief executive has set his sights on using the coronavirus crisis to win market share from Europe’s 
national flag carriers, rather than going head-to-head with low-cost rivals when the industry emerges from the 
pandemic.
Johan Lundgren told the Financial Times that the biggest market overlap the group had “is with companies such as 
Air France, KLM, Lufthansa, Tui and British Airways. There has been huge retrenchment of capacity from their 
end . . . this gives us a great opportunity to grow.” He said he was not focused on competing with budget airlines 
such as Ryanair. 
The pandemic has caused huge damage across the aviation industry, but legacy national airlines are expected to 
recover more slowly because they are generally geared towards business travel and short flights to feed long-haul 
hub operations. Business trips and long-haul travel are widely expected to be laggards when the market improves.
EasyJet competes with these national airlines on two-thirds of its network, and will prioritise flying from the more 
expensive airports those carriers tend to use as it plans its network for the rest of the year, Mr Lundgren said. 
He is more circumspect about the opportunities arising from the crisis than Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary or Wizz Air’s 
József Váradi, who have both talked about a one-off chance to win huge market share. 
EasyJet investors have also yet to be won over on future opportunities. The company’s  share price has fallen 50 
per cent over the past 12 months, while Ryanair and Wizz Air have recovered their losses.
EasyJet sets sights on winning business from national flag carriers
These two carriers have been able to conserve more cash and maintain stronger balance sheets than easyJet 
because they have lower cost bases, leaving them in a better position to accelerate out of the crisis, said Alex 
Paterson, aviation analyst at Peel Hunt.
But Mr Lundgren's strategy is sensible, he added, given easyJet “wouldn’t fare so well” in head-on competition with 
Ryanair and Wizz. 
EasyJet’s cost per seat, an important industry metric, was €80.9 in the most recent quarter, compared with €45.1 
for Ryanair and €59.1 for Wizz, according to Chris Tarry, an aviation consultant. 
Even as lockdowns and travel curbs remain in place, Mr Lundgren is optimistic about the summer season and has 
noticed that passenger bookings tend to jump “within the hour” whenever politicians suggest restrictions might be 
eased.
US carrier Delta has said it has detected similar signs of pent-up demand, but US and many European authorities 
still look a long way from relaxing the rules. 
Mr Lundgren, who has mostly been running the airline from home since March, said this meant the industry had its 
hopes pinned on vaccines. “That’s the key thing, that’s what’s going to unlock this thing.”  
EasyJet is due to publish quarterly results this week and analysts are forecasting revenue will have fallen more than 
80 per cent year-on-year. 
The company has raised £4.5bn in extra funding since the pandemic began, including a £1.4bn UK government-
backed loan this month. Mr Lundgren is still seeking new sources of liquidity as the disruption caused by the 
pandemic stretches into its second year. 
Without a strong summer season, analysts at Bernstein calculate that every major European airline except Wizz Air 
will need to raise more cash to weather the storm. 
“Life in aviation right now, you could say it has never been more dreadful, and darker . . . but there is reason to be 
positive about things,” Mr Lundgren said. 
Load-Date: January 25, 2021
End of Document
Airlines’ shares tumble on prospect of tighter travel rules
Airlines’ shares tumble on prospect of tighter travel rules
 
FT.com
January 25, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 702 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis, Alice Hancock and Jim Pickard
Body
The prospect of new restrictions on international travel sent a shudder through the travel industry on Monday, piling 
pressure on companies already reeling from a year of disruption.
Shares in European airlines tumbled as the UK government prepared to introduce  tighter immigration rules 
following concerns that new strains of Covid-19 could spread from international travellers. 
Governments in Sweden, Belgium and Germany also tightened travel curbs over the weekend.
British Airways owner IAG led the share price declines, falling 8 per cent, while easyJet dropped 7 per cent, cruise 
operator Carnival decreased 6 per cent and Ryanair was 4 per cent lower at the close on Monday.
Travel groups devastated by national lockdowns and closed borders warned that additional measures could be the 
last straw for businesses and would knock consumer confidence during a key period for summer holiday bookings.
“Things are looking bad and these travel restrictions will make things catastrophic for the industry,” said Andrew 
Crawley, chief commercial officer at American Express Global Business Travel.
A limited system of hotel quarantine is to be introduced in England this week but initially only for British residents 
returning from countries with new, more virulent forms of coronavirus, including Portugal, South Africa and Brazil. 
Whitehall sources said Downing Street would “reserve the right” to go further by requiring all visitors from anywhere 
in the world to isolate for 10-days.
Airlines’ shares tumble on prospect of tighter travel rules
Senior ministers will hold a meeting on Tuesday of the UK government’s “Covid operations committee”, at which the 
tighter measures are expected to be signed off.
Johan Lundgren, easyJet’s chief executive, said customer sentiment was “reliant on newsflow”, but 
bookings showed there was a pent-up demand for travel whenever there were signs of governments relaxing 
restrictions.
Glyn Jones, chief executive of Southend Airport, which is not running passenger flights at the moment, said the 
prospect of further restrictions was adding to consumer uncertainty over the summer season. “When people are 
uncertain, they don’t tend to make buying decisions.” 
Airlines and travel executives are resigned to the early months of this year being a write-off. 
But there are mounting concerns that the critical summer season is under threat, particularly if the UK introduces 
mandatory hotel quarantine for inbound passengers. 
Hotels run by national chains have been asked by the government to make rooms available particularly at airport 
sites for arrivals to quarantine for 10 days with travellers picking up the cost, say travel industry advisers.
“At the moment the government is just putting layer upon layer of blocks on people coming into the country,” said 
Lana Bennett, chief executive of Tours International, which runs itineraries for incoming tourists to the UK. 
The company took £1.4m in revenues in 2019, but Ms Bennett said it had taken no money since last March and that 
no new bookings had been confirmed for this year.
The travel industry has been careful not to criticise public health measures, but has called for a pathway out of the 
restrictions in time for the peak holiday season.
“Tens of thousands of jobs and billions in lost trade are at stake and so we need a road map out of these 
restrictions as soon as possible,” said Tim Alderslade, chief executive of Airlines UK, an industry association.
Joss Croft, chief executive of the trade body UKinbound, said the tourism industry would recover only “when 
quarantine is abolished” and that financial support was needed to ensure that the UK did not lose out to competitors 
during the recovery period.
Before coronavirus, the inbound tourism sector was expected to generate £24.7bn in spending last year but 
VisitBritain forecasts published last month showed that the number of visits declined by 76 per cent compared with 
2019 and spending dropped to £5.7bn.
Hotel occupancy in the UK in December had already been at its lowest level since May, data published by the 
analytics firm STR showed.
Mark Manduca, analyst at Citigroup, said Europe's airlines could need fresh cash if summer schedules are 
disrupted. This would likely involve raising fresh capital from shareholders. 
Load-Date: January 25, 2021
End of Document
Covid curbs flatten hopes for revival of international travel
Covid curbs flatten hopes for revival of international travel
 
FT.com
January 25, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1289 words
Byline: Darren Dodd
Body
The FT is offering a free 30-day trial to Coronavirus Business Update, which includes access to FT.com. Please 
spread the word by forwarding this newsletter to friends and colleagues who you think would find it valuable. And if 
this has been forwarded to you, hello. Please sign up  here
Latest news
For up-to-the-minute coronavirus updates visit our  live blog
•
Global trade in goods and industrial production returned to pre-pandemic levels in November, according to 
analysts in the Netherlands
•
US infectious diseases expert  Anthony Fauci has expressed concerns for the practice of delaying the 
second dose of coronavirus vaccines, as carried out in some parts of the UK 
•
Chinese president  Xi Jinping called for co-ordinated efforts to boost economic growth and ensure vaccines 
were ‘accessible and affordable to people in all countries’
New rules come at start of crucial holiday booking period
Shares in  European airlines plunged today as the prospect of new coronavirus restrictions piled doubt on hopes of 
an early recovery for international travel. 
Covid curbs flatten hopes for revival of international travel
Carriers ranging from British Airways owner IAG to budget airlines easyJet and Ryanair all took a hit, as did cruise 
operator Carnival — at a time when the industry would normally be profiting from a rush of bookings for summer 
holidays. 
The  UK — where inbound tourism last year was expected to drop to £5.7bn from normal levels of £24.7bn — could 
be poised to follow Sweden, Belgium and  Germany in tightening entry and quarantine measures as fears grow of 
new strains of the virus being brought in by international travellers. Worries are not confined to Europe:  Australia, 
for example, today suspended quarantine-free travel with New Zealand.
“Things are looking bad and these travel restrictions will make things catastrophic for the industry,” said Andrew 
Crawley, chief commercial officer at American Express Global Business Travel.
There are some glimmers of hope — holiday bookings from  older customers are surging as the introduction of 
vaccines boosts confidence — but measures such as the UK potentially requiring visitors to pay for their own 10-
day quarantine at designated hotels have only heightened industry anxiety. 
A tightening of restrictions is especially worrying for countries heavily reliant on foreign tourism, such as  Thailand. 
Visits to Thailand plunged from 40m in 2019 to 6.8m last year and hotels are lobbying for an end to the mandatory 
14-day quarantine for foreigners who can prove they have been vaccinated.
The pandemic is also creating structural change within the airline industry. 
 EasyJet chief executive Johan Lundgren told the FT that the pandemic shake-out meant he was targeting the 
market share of flag carriers rather than rival budget operators. These legacy national airlines are expected to 
recover more slowly because of their focus on business trips and long-haul travel. 
One corner of the airline industry that is seen as more capable of surviving the travel downturn is the leasing sector. 
Seven companies that own planes they lease to airlines  raised a combined $14.9bn in January, according to data 
from Dealogic, with several receiving cut-price borrowing costs.
Markets
The pandemic-driven market chaos of 2020 resulted in the hedge fund industry’s  biggest year of gains in a 
decade, according to new research. Many big names such as Chase Coleman’s Tiger Global and Izzy Englander’s 
Millennium Management were able to profit from March’s sell-off and the subsequent rally in risky assets.
Veteran fund managers are increasingly worried about the possibility of a huge bubble as markets profit from 
monetary and fiscal support, bond yields remain at historic lows and investors sit on piles of excess cash, writes 
markets editor  Katie Martin in the first article in our new  Runaway Markets series.
Better profits than expected and the rising number of rigs drilling in the US have led oil services groups to believe 
the worst of the oil price crisis is over. Halliburton chief Jeffrey Miller said: “We view 2021 as a bit of a transition 
year . . . and we view 2022 as when we see the  global rebalancing of supply and demand, which creates the sort of 
underpinning of a multiyear upcycle.” This rosy view is not universal: shale groups are worried about  overdrilling 
as “bad actors” chase “growth for growth’s sake”. 
Business
Merck has abandoned its plans for a  Covid-19 vaccine after disappointing trial results and will instead focus on 
drugs to treat the disease. Fellow US pharma company Moderna said it was developing a new jab for the “  South 
African variant” of the virus, which could be ready — if needed — by the autumn. Panasonic, meanwhile, has 
designed a new  freezer box that it hopes can help address serious global problems of transporting vaccines at 
ultra-low temperatures. 
We got further evidence today of how the pandemic is reshaping the  retail industry. Online retailer Boohoo bought 
the brand of ailing UK department store Debenhams and rival internet fashion retailer Asos is in talks to buy the 
Covid curbs flatten hopes for revival of international travel
high-street brands of former retail tycoon Philip Green, including Topshop, Topman and Miss Selfridge. Both 
deals exclude the physical stores owned by the traditional retailers — 118 in the case of Debenhams and more than 
400 owned by Philip Green’s Arcadia empire — threatening thousands of jobs.
Family businesses — as so often in times of crisis — are among the winners in the pandemic, writes columnist  
Pilita Clark. They are often more frugal, more community minded and more innovative than other businesses — 
admirable qualities in such dark times.
Global economy
US president Joe Biden’s $1.9tn coronavirus stimulus plan still faces opposition from  Republicans who say it is 
too costly. Democrats want to reach an agreement before Donald Trump’s new impeachment trial begins the week 
of February 8. There was, however, some good news on US  infections: states yesterday reported an eight-week 
low in new cases.
Critics have again hit out at the perceived slowness of the EU’s vaccination strategy, hampered by supply issues 
and slower regulatory approvals. Frankfurt bureau chief Martin Arnold reports on the role of ECB board member 
Isabel Schnabel in building consensus for the bank’s  stimulus programme and Germany’s Ifo index provided 
another reminder of the need for government action:  business confidence fell to a seven-year low at the start of this 
year.
Bookmark this: Our new hourly-updated  vaccine tracker shows doses administered across the world. 
Oxfam told attendees at the “digital Davos” summit that the combined wealth accumulated by the world’s  10 
richest men during the pandemic — $540bn — would be enough to vaccinate the world and reverse the rise in 
poverty it had created. The  Red Cross reminded delegates of the pandemic’s economic impact on fragile regions 
and groups such as refugees.
Essentials
Is the “labour of love” a con? A new book argues the pandemic “has made the brutality of the workplace more 
visible”. Forget the idea that we should all  love our work — it won’t love us back, author Sarah Jaffe tells Work & 
Careers columnist Emma Jacobs.
Our  How to Lead series features  Francesco De Meo, the boss of Helios, Europe’s largest private hospital group, 
who said Germany’s initial pandemic response would have been handled better with fewer, more efficient hospitals 
and “without spending so much money”.
Final thought
As hopes for the imminent return of international travel begin to fade, wine correspondent  Jancis Robinson offers 
some tips on how to travel vicariously through wine, taking in everything from the rosés of Provence to the Chianti 
Classico of Tuscany.
We would really like to hear from you. Please send your reactions or suggestions to . Thanks
Load-Date: January 26, 2021
End of Document
Air France - KLM still struggles amid Franco - Dutch illusions
Air France-KLM still struggles amid Franco-Dutch illusions
 
FT.com
January 20, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 747 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger, International Business Editor
Body
France is often criticised for its heavy-handed approach to cross-border industrial collaboration. Remember the 
tensions unleashed in the Renault-Nissan alliance when Paris pushed for a merger of the carmakers, knowing that 
Japan was strongly opposed? Or the battles between France and Germany for control of Airbus, the Franco-
German aircraft maker? 
Now it is the turn of Air France-KLM, the airline created in 2004 by the so-called merger of France’s flag carrier with 
the Netherlands’ own champion. 
But, this time, it is not only French interference that is creating friction ahead of a vital fundraising — and possibly 
jeopardising the future of Europe’s first aviation alliance. It is also the illusion perpetuated by Dutch politicians and 
KLM’s management that the carrier is still an independent entity, despite having sold itself to Air France almost two 
decades ago.
For that is what KLM did when it agreed to create what was then the world’s biggest airline by revenue. At the time, 
Air France was not only bigger, but healthier, than KLM.
True, there were many safeguards built into the agreement that still give KLM some independence. But both airlines 
knew then — and should know now — that their  post-Covid fortunes are better together than apart. While there has 
been progress on collaboration, the group needs to go further  if it is to compete successfully when the market 
recovers and the likes of Ryanair and Wizz Air are gunning for market share. 
Air France - KLM still struggles amid Franco - Dutch illusions
Right now, Air France-KLM is struggling with a balance sheet that cannot bear the weight of €10.4bn in  loans 
backed by the French and Dutch governments to help it through the pandemic. While there is no immediate need 
for cash, a big capital increase is required to cope with that debt burden.
But fundraising discussions must first overcome deeply embedded Dutch suspicions about the French state that — 
not illogically — wants greater integration of the airline to improve competitiveness. The Dutch government, 
perhaps also understandably, wants to ensure that not a penny of Dutch taxpayers’ money goes to Air France, 
which, unlike KLM, has consistently failed to tackle the labour costs that have  weighed on its profitability.  
This is not a new problem. Tensions have been bubbling for years. While KLM benefited hugely from the alliance, a 
failure to restructure Air France — and violent protests over  various attempts — have made the Dutch wary. 
Complicating matters, the independence of KLM, a symbol of the Netherlands’ heft in the global economy, is as 
much a political issue as a corporate one.  
The  appointment in 2018 of a non-French chief executive in Ben Smith, formerly of Air Canada, should have 
improved matters. Instead, he trampled on Dutch sensitivities by attempting to assert his authority over KLM’s chief. 
Insiders say the two are barely on speaking terms. The Dutch government’s subsequent acquisition of 14 per cent 
of Air France-KLM, to balance the French state’s 14.3 per cent, was regarded as hostile by Paris. 
That said, the coronavirus crisis may be changing mindsets. One condition of the French bailout was that Air 
France close lossmaking routes and parts of its domestic network, Hop. Had Air France done this without 
government sanction, it might have been far more difficult, analysts suggest.
And the  mass resignation of the Dutch government last week could be positive, too. French and Dutch finance 
ministers have crossed swords too often to find an easy path back to collaboration. A change of guard might help — 
although the Dutch finance minister, as head of one of the country’s biggest parties, is likely to retain influence. 
In an ideal world, the governments would let management find the best way to extract efficiencies. But yielding 
power in an iconic company is not a good idea ahead of an election. Nor is it likely to be a new government’s first 
act.
So, in the absence of disposals, the way forward has to be delivering a competitive Air France. When it is no longer 
regarded as a deadweight by the Dutch, there will be more incentive to take integration further. 
But the Dutch must also stop imagining that the partnership with Air France is temporary. When the Dutch finance 
minister suggested late last year that the alliance did not have to last for ever, he might have scored some political 
points. But for Air France-KLM and its 86,000 employees, he was only further destabilising a partnership that could 
be delivering so much more.
peggy.hollinger@ft.com
Load-Date: January 20, 2021
End of Document
IB DP Theory of knowledge class
IB DP Theory of knowledge class
 
FT.com
January 12, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 406 words
Body
This article is part of the Financial Times free schools access programme.  Details/registration here.
Our panel of teacher advisers selects relevant FT articles to help improve study, exam and interview success, with 
suggestions for class questions and discussion. 
•
The arts:  What George Orwell could teach us about Israel and Palestine
•
The arts:  Let’s pause for breath and consider our shared humanity
•
Technology:  Sci-fi writer Ted Chiang: - The machines we have now are not conscious’
•
Natural sciences:  Gillian Anderson wants us to find her G Spot
•
The arts:  Ways of seeing, ways of knowing
•
History:  On Savage Shores — overturning Columbus’s ‘discovery’ narrative
•
The arts, History —  Simon Schama: art versus the tyrants
•
The arts, History:  Growing list of books targeted in America’s school culture wars
•
Natural sciences, Mathematics:  ‘Magic numbers’ are clouding the climate debate
•
ESS:  Would carbon food labels change the way you shop?
•
Language, History:  Ryanair forces South African customers to prove ID with Afrikaans test
•
The arts, History:  Balenciaga’s trashed trainers tap into fashion controversy
•
The arts, History:  Where are the black people in Old Master paintings?
IB DP Theory of knowledge class
•
Natural and human sciences:  The race to curb global warming
•
Technology:  David Chalmers — ‘We are the gods of the virtual worlds we create’
•
Human sciences:  Graphics of the year — making sense of 2021
•
Technology:  Workers demand gig economy companies explain their algorithms
•
Human sciences:  Climate change could bring near-unliveable conditions for 3bn people, say scientists
•
Natural sciences:  Covid revealed what science can do when funding is found
•
Natural sciences:  Fires and floods: can science link extreme weather to climate change?
•
Human sciences:  We must face facts — even the ones we don’t like
•
Knowledge & the knower:  Mr Spock is not as logical as he’d like to think
•
Human sciences:  Daniel Kahneman: ‘Everything I’ve done has been collaborative’
•
The arts:  What makes an iconic painting? The National Gallery’s top 12 works
•
Human sciences:  Yuval Noah Harari: Lessons from a year of Covid
•
Language:  A deep dive into the wormhole of sci-fi invention
•
Natural & human sciences:  Brazil’s vaccination hindered by bottlenecks and a sceptical leader
•
History:  The backlash against colonialism holds lessons in guilt and gratitude
•
Language:  Year in a word: Cancelled
•
Natural sciences:  What we have learnt about the limits of science
Load-Date: December 10, 2023
End of Document
Ryanair hit by lockdowns as it cuts flight schedules
Ryanair hit by lockdowns as it cuts flight schedules
 
FT.com
January 7, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 457 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Ryanair warned that it would carry even fewer passengers than forecast this year after slashing its winter flight 
schedules in response to the new wave of lockdowns and travel restrictions in the UK and Europe.
The low-cost carrier said it expected to run few, if any, flights to and from the UK and Ireland from the end of 
January until restrictions on movements were eased.
As a result, Ryanair has revised down its passenger forecast for the year to March, from below 35m to between 
26m to 30m passengers — less than a fifth of the 149m it carried in the previous financial year.
The airline also called on the British and Irish governments to speed up their vaccination programmes and said 
“vaccinations rather than lockdowns is the way out of this Covid-19 crisis”.
Changes illustrate how the winter season is turning out to be even worse than expected for Europe’s airlines, 
despite Ryanair’s expectation that reductions will not hit profitability as the flights were lossmaking.
The group’s passenger numbers in January are expected to fall to under 1.25m passengers, and then dip to 
500,000 in February and March — the lowest since air travel all but stopped last spring. 
In the UK, Boris Johnson’s government ordered its third national lockdown since March this week following a rapid 
rise in coronavirus infections. 
Ryanair hit by lockdowns as it cuts flight schedules
The prime minister has promised to review the measures, which include a travel ban for non-essential trips, in mid-
February. 
Ireland tightened its lockdown after Christmas, including a ban on people entering from the UK that ends at 
midnight on Friday. 
EasyJet and British Airways also plan to cut their flight schedules in response to the new lockdowns, while 
Ryanair’s aggressive Hungarian rival Wizz Air is also reviewing its plans. 
Analysts have warned that the disruption is weighing on bookings for the spring and summer season, which are 
essential to get cash into businesses that have been bleeding money for the best part of a year.
“Pre-booking activity for the spring and summer 2021 season is just not there. This will defer the usual cash inflows 
expected by the industry at this time of the year,” aviation analysts at Goodbody said.
Still, Ryanair is regarded as well-placed to ride out the chaos given its strong balance sheet and flexible business 
model. 
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, told the FT last month he sees opportunities as his rivals flounder, and 
that he expects bookings to pick up once vaccines are rolled out more thoroughly. 
“In summary, short-term weakness for Ryanair and the sector but positive for Ryanair in terms of its market share 
ambitions over the next 12 months,” Goodbody said. 
Shares in Ryanair, easyJet and BA owner IAG all fell 3 per cent by mid-morning on Thursday.
Load-Date: January 7, 2021
End of Document
City Bulletin: Sainsbury’s boosted by online trading
City Bulletin: Sainsbury’s boosted by online trading
 
FT.com
January 7, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 719 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Drama  across the Atlantic might make it a good day to bury bad news. J Sainsbury is taking the opposite 
approach.
Britain’s second biggest supermarket  raised its full-year profit target in an unscheduled trading update. Underlying 
earnings are now expected to be £330m, approximately £60m above its previous guidance, following a 9.3 per cent 
jump in sales over the festive season. Demand for groceries, general merchandise and clothing had all been 
stronger than expected while online sales more than doubled in the weeks before Christmas, Sainsbury said.
Briefly
B&M, the discount retailer whose £5.3bn market value is double that of Marks & Spencer, posted a 22.5 per cent 
jump in revenue for its December quarter but cut profit guidance to reflect its repayment of UK business rates relief. 
UK like-for-like sales grew 21.1 per cent in the quarter as B&M’s classification as an essential retailer allowed it to 
keep trading. The company said it would be returning a further £200m to shareholders via a 20p per share special 
dividend, its  third in less than 12 months.
Pub owner Mitchells & Butlers said it is considering an equity raise to help weather the latest lockdown measures, 
though no decision had been made yet on timing, size or terms. The All Bar One owner reported a 67.1 per cent 
slump in sales for the 14 weeks ended January 2.
City Bulletin: Sainsbury’s boosted by online trading
Ladbrokes owner Entain, which  said on Monday that it had rejected a takeover offer from MGM Resorts, is buying 
Enlabs of Sweden for around £250m. Entain said it had agreed a recommended cash offer for Enlabs at a price of 
SKr40 per share, a premium of just 1.1 per cent to where the stock closed on Wednesday. The deal, which Entain 
said had been accepted by Enlabs shareholders holding 42.2 per cent of the equity, put a value on the Baltics- and 
Nordics-focused online casino operator of SKr2.8bn. Entain also revealed that its 2020 earnings would beat 
consensus forecasts. 
Ryanair cut its annual traffic forecast by around 5m passengers, with the airline saying new Covid-19 restrictions 
had forced significant cuts to its flight schedules. Lockdowns “will result in few, if any, flights being operated to/from 
Ireland or the UK from the end of Jan until such time as these draconian travel restrictions are removed," Ryanair 
said.
Beyond the Square Mile 
US drug wholesaler AmerisourceBergen has agreed to buy the distribution business of Walgreens Boots 
Alliance for about $6.5bn as it pushes further into Europe. Stefano Pessina, chief executive of Walgreens Boots 
Alliance,  told the Financial Times that he would use proceeds from the sale to pay down debt and to help fund 
acquisitions, adding that the company had identified a number of targets.
The New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday said it would go ahead with a  plan to delist three Chinese 
telecommunications companies next week, after an earlier decision to keep the businesses trading on the Big 
Board drew criticism from Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. NYSE said it would drop the shares of China 
Telecom, China Mobile and China Unicom from the exchange on January 11 to comply with an executive order 
signed by President Donald Trump last year.
A mere three bidders, including a state agency,  put forward offers for controversial oil leases in an ecologically 
sensitive area of Alaska during an auction that the Trump administration rushed to conduct in its final days. The 
first-ever sale of drilling rights in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge elicited minimal interest on Wednesday, with 
the Alaska Industrial Development and Export Authority, the agency responsible for driving the state’s economic 
growth, accounting for the bulk of the bids.
Essential comment before you go
Maike Currie The UK market has suffered pariah status for years now, chalking up big outflows since 2016. But the 
“do not touch with a barge pole” status of the UK looks increasingly hard to justify for a number of reasons,  writes 
an investment director at Fidelity International.
Lombard How you think about Greggs’ future really depends on whether you believe  2022 will be remotely like 
2019. Its business should be fine but how big will the pasty market be once we’re allowed to venture out into the 
world again?
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here. 
Load-Date: January 7, 2021
End of Document
City Bulletin: Next and Morrison prove resilient in face of coronavirus
City Bulletin: Next and Morrison prove resilient in face of coronavirus
 
FT.com
January 5, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 672 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
The first British retail trading updates of 2021 suggest Christmas sales have proven resilient in spite of lockdown 
measures.
Next gave a better than expected statement for the nine weeks to December 26. Full price sales for the period 
were down 1 per cent year on year, well ahead of market expectations for a 5 per cent decline, as online sales 
jumped 38 per cent. 
For the current financial year, Next  expects a pre-tax profit of £370m before an increased provision against the 
value of its retail store estate and the benefit of an additional trading week, up slightly from the £365m predicted at 
its last update in October. The underlying figure beat consensus forecasts by about 3 per cent.
Wm Morrison, Britain’s fourth-biggest grocer, said group like-for-like sales excluding fuel rose 8.1 per cent in the 
22 weeks to January 3. For the three weeks covering Christmas same-store sales surged 9.3 per cent, Morrison 
said. 
Morrison cautioned of an extra £10m in Covid-19 costs for the 2021 financial year, bringing the total to £280m, in 
addition to a £230m cost from refunding business rates relief. However, Morrison left underlying full-year profit 
guidance unchanged at between £420m to £440m and stuck with plans to pay a 4p special dividend.
Briefly
City Bulletin: Next and Morrison prove resilient in face of coronavirus
Premier Foods said it has ended a relationship with Paulson & Co and rewritten terms of an agreement with Oasis 
Management, the activist investors that lobbied successfully last year for  a strategic review. Non-executive 
directors Orkun Kilic, a Paulson nominee, steps down with immediate effect.
IT services group Softcat said trading had remained positive since its last update in mid November. Public sector 
demand had been strong though corporate business had been “somewhat mixed”, Softcat said.
Ryanair announced that December traffic dropped 83 per cent year on year to 1.9m passengers. Wizz Air’s traffic 
figures for December showed 665,772 passengers, an 81 per cent drop.
Job moves 
Gal Haber, co-founder of Plus500 and its former CEO, is stepping down from his position as managing director at 
the contracts-for-difference broker with immediate effect. News of his departure accompanied a trading update from 
Plus500 in which it said full-year ebitda for 2020 would be approximately $515m, in line with previous guidance.
Beyond the Square Mile 
The New York Stock Exchange has  backtracked on plans to delist three Chinese state-run telecoms groups — 
China Mobile, China Telecom and China Unicom — reversing a decision that had threatened to further inflame 
tensions between Washington and Beijing. NYSE said on Monday evening that it no longer intended to carry out the 
delistings “in light of further consultation with relevant regulatory authorities”. 
Hundreds of workers at Google parent Alphabet announced that they have  formed a union, a rare move within 
Silicon Valley that is set to increase tensions between the tech giant and its employees. The newly formed Alphabet 
Workers Union includes 226 of Alphabet’s more than 140,000 employees and is affiliated with the Communications 
Workers of America union.
Haven Healthcare, the joint healthcare venture between Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase,  
will be shut down less than three years after it pledged to use the companies’ combined heft to lower costs and 
improve care. Haven informed its 57 employees on Monday morning that it will close by the end of February but a 
spokeswoman for the group said the three companies would continue to work together on healthcare “informally”.
Essential comment before you go
Primrose Riordan The freezing of the bank account of a former pro-democracy lawmaker in Hong Kong over the 
new year has shown that compliance problems are only getting more fraught for banks,  particularly for HSBC.
Lombard
A combination of MGM brands such as Bellagio and Mirage with Entain’s in-house technology could create  a 
formidable global player in the online gambling business.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
Load-Date: January 5, 2021
End of Document
European airlines demand reduction in airport landing fees
European airlines demand reduction in airport landing fees
 
FT.com
January 2, 2021 Saturday
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 498 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
European airlines are stepping up pressure on airports to slash landing charges, leading to warnings of a race to 
the bottom in an industry decimated by the pandemic.
Ryanair, Wizz Air and easyJet are among the carriers pushing airports to discount fees as they decide where to fly 
when passengers begin returning in significant numbers. 
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, told the Financial Times that airports will be under “ferocious pressure” 
to recover their traffic levels. 
Mr O’Leary offered the example of his airline’s expansion at Venice airport, where a new base and 18 new routes 
were announced in December following what Ryanair called “competitive” pricing. 
“Aircraft numbers are going to move significantly to wherever we can get the best deals,” he said. 
Airports typically make up their income from a mix of landing fees for the use of their runways by airlines and 
revenues from their own facilities including retail space, catering and car parking. 
The collapse in passenger numbers during the pandemic has blown a hole in both these business lines. 
Olivier Jankovec, director-general of airports lobby group ACI Europe, warned that airports’ financial situations were 
worsening and the pressure to discount their charges was unsustainable. 
European airlines demand reduction in airport landing fees
“When you hear from airlines like easyJet, Ryanair or Wizz Air, it is very clear they want to use the crisis as an 
opportunity to lower their costs . . . We are basically at the moment in an airports beauty contest,” he told the FT.
“You can’t expect airport charges to go down forever, that race to the bottom is not sustainable,” he said, pointing to 
fixed costs such as air traffic control and other infrastructure that cannot be cut in a crisis. 
ACI Europe has estimated that 6,000 flight routes across Europe have been lost during the crisis, leaving airports 
competing between themselves to restore traffic.  
At London’s Heathrow, pandemic losses have prompted proposals to  increase charges by 5 per cent, despite 
furious objections from some big airlines. British Airways says it is “fundamentally wrong”.
Other airlines such as Wizz Air, a growing rival to Ryanair’s low-cost business model, have also focused on price 
when negotiating with airports during the pandemic.
“There is a market price to everything. When airports are full the price goes up, and when airports are empty there 
is the ability to negotiate a better price,” said Owain Jones, Wizz Air’s UK managing director. 
Andrew Findlay, chief financial officer of easyJet, said the carrier was in “ongoing discussions” over discounts with 
airports, and that charges would be a “key area of focus”.
“Clearly, they’re incentivised to get as many passengers through their airports as we are,” he told analysts on the 
airline’s most recent results call. 
ACI’s Mr Jankovec said: “There is a lot of discounting at the moment, that’s inevitable . . . but when we get to a 
stage of the recovery where we can see the new normal, then things need to balance out.”
Load-Date: January 2, 2021
End of Document
British Airways secures state backing for £2bn loan
British Airways secures state backing for £2bn loan
 
FT.com
December 31, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 428 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger, International Business Editor
Body
British Airways will be temporarily barred from paying dividends to its parent IAG after securing a government 
guarantee for a £2bn loan, designed to help its recovery from turbulence caused by coronavirus and Britain’s exit 
from the EU.
IAG, which also owns Ireland’s Aer Lingus and Spain’s Iberia, said BA had received commitments for a five-year 
loan from a syndicate of banks. 
The new loan has been facilitated by a state guarantee designed specifically to help UK businesses post Brexit, 
offered through UK Export Finance (UKEF). 
Rolls-Royce this year took advantage of the facility to raise liquidity of about £3bn with a guarantee from UKEF for 
80 per cent of the loan. 
IAG said BA’s £2bn credit line would be drawn down in January, subject to settlement of terms.
However, BA will not be allowed to pay dividends to its parent for the term of the loan, which could put pressure on 
IAG’s own capacity for dividend payments. 
BA is IAG’s biggest single contributor to group profit, the company confirmed. 
IAG said it continued to explore other “debt initiatives” to improve liquidity, which stood at €8bn excluding the UKEF 
guaranteed facility. 
British Airways secures state backing for £2bn loan
BA would use the funding to prepare for a partial recovery in air travel as governments begin to roll out vaccines to 
contain the spread of the virus.
However, the legacy carrier will also face fierce competition from low-cost rivals such as Ryanair and Wizz Air 
which have made no secret of their ambition to expand aggressively on short-haul routes across Europe as 
passengers begin to return to the air. 
Meanwhile, as the UK prepared to quit the EU’s single market on January 1, IAG also on Thursday announced 
board changes to ensure a majority of EU citizens sit as independent non-executive directors. 
The changes follow moves this week by Ryanair and Wizz to  strip voting rights from UK shareholders to comply 
with post-Brexit EU ownership rules. 
Only airlines majority-owned and controlled by nationals of the EU, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein 
will be allowed to fly between two EU destinations from January 1. 
However, both the UK and EU have said they would look at options to liberalise ownership rules within a year. 
“It is disappointing that it has become necessary to make these changes to the board,” said outgoing chairman 
Antonio Vázquez. 
“However, we are pleased that the EU-UK trade and co-operation agreement recognises the potential benefits of 
further liberalisation of airline ownership and control because we believe that it is in the best interests of the industry 
and consumers.”
Load-Date: December 31, 2020
End of Document
Brexit/airline shares: no frills and no votes
Brexit/airline shares: no frills and no votes
 
FT.com
December 29, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 422 words
Body
The more abruptly the UK splits from the EU, the greater the disruption to business. Investment provides one 
example. In their first stock exchange announcements since an EU/UK trade deal was struck, Ryanair and Wizz Air 
said they planned to  strip non-EU shareholders — notably British ones — of some or all of their votes from January 
1. Even worse for Ryanair investors, they will now be prohibited from buying stock in the Irish low-cost carrier, or 
selling their shares to compatriots.
EasyJet and British Airways’ owner IAG have plans for similar restrictions. Airlines are scrambling to avoid 
classification as majority-owned by non-EU investors. These businesses typically cannot operate services within the 
EU. Hefty UK shareholder bases — more than one-third of the total in the case of Wizz Air — become a liability 
from Friday. IAG’s difficulty is exacerbated by a 25 per cent Qatari stake.
Webs of co-operation are tearing like spider silk. Airlines see a hard Brexit, despite the EU/UK trade deal. The 
treaty is explicit that UK carriers can count on no transitional rights to ferry passengers within the EU. In 2019, IAG 
carried 62m passengers between EU countries, more than half the total, albeit that the UK still belonged to the 
trade bloc.
British financial services business will be similarly keen to stay on the right side of Brussels. They are set to lose 
“passports” to operate within the EU on Friday. Transitional arrangements are skimpy and one-sided. Ridiculously, 
UK and EU investors could end up trading some securities in the US, whose markets have regulatory equivalence 
with EU peers.
Such awkward workarounds are already illustrated by the airlines. Wizz Air expects to disenfranchise about 60 per 
cent of shares held by non-EU investors. That should bring their voting control down to around one-third of the total, 
Brexit/airline shares: no frills and no votes
worth £1.3bn. Ryanair has taken a characteristically blunter stance in planning to strip non-EU shareholders of all 
their voting rights.
Shares in Ryanair and Wizz rose in parallel with other London-listed stocks on Tuesday morning. Lost voting rights 
represent no more than a small incremental cost for a subset of investors. This counts for little compared with 
stronger sterling and a legally robust means for airlines to keep EU air traffic rights. What will matter more for UK 
business is the totality of such costs. This can only rise.
The Lex team is interested in hearing more from readers. Please tell us what you think of Ryanair and Wizz Air’s 
plans in the comments section below
Load-Date: December 29, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair and Wizz to take away UK investor voting rights on EU exit
Ryanair and Wizz to take away UK investor voting rights on EU exit
 
FT.com
December 29, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 465 words
Byline: Gill Plimmer and Philip Georgiadis
Body
Ryanair and Wizz Air are to take away the voting rights of UK shareholders as a result of Britain’s exit from the EU.
The airlines are acting to comply with EU ownership rules once Britain leaves the bloc on Friday.
Ryanair on Tuesday said it had to “take steps” to ensure it would remain majority EU-owned and controlled to 
comply with European regulations. 
The Irish airline said in a stock market announcement it would issue restricted shares to non-EU investors, 
specifying that holders were not entitled to speak or vote at any general meeting. 
Speaking earlier this month, Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary told the Financial Times the airline would be 
about 60 per cent owned by non-EU shareholders, once the UK was excluded from the bloc. 
Wizz issued a similar stock market announcement. The Hungarian airline expects to serve about 60 per cent of its 
investor base with restricted share notices. Without the action, the airline would have been 80 per cent owned by 
non-EU nationals from January 1.
Both airlines are enacting long-held plans to ensure they maintain their flying rights after Brexit. 
 EU regulations demand that  airlines with EU operating licences, including BA-owner IAG and easyJet, are majority 
owned and controlled by nationals of the bloc, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein. 
Ryanair and Wizz to take away UK investor voting rights on EU exit
This enables airlines to fly between two destinations within EU borders.
From January 1, UK nationals will be treated as non-EU and their shares will no longer count towards that 
ownership requirement.
While potentially problematic for UK shareholders, the arrangement will not present immediate operational issues, 
analysts say. 
UK investors that may be affected include Baillie Gifford, which is the second-biggest investor in Ryanair, and Wizz 
top-20 investors Jupiter, Legal & General Investment Management and Schroders, according to Refinitiv’s latest 
filings.
The EU and the UK will look at “options for reciprocal liberalisation” of the rules within the next year, which Baillie 
Gifford said “potentially insulates carriers from challenges based on their ownership structure”.
Daniel Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein, said airlines with large UK ownership will either need to wait for a 
favourable agreement on airline ownership rights or design alternative ownership and holding structures to 
“safeguard EU-nationality of individual airlines”.
Analysts have long said that IAG, the owner of airlines including BA, Iberia and Aer Lingus, faces the most complex 
problems on ownership after Brexit. The group has never disclosed how many of its shareholders are EU nationals 
when the UK is excluded. 
UK-based easyJet last week said it would suspend voting rights of some investors if necessary to raise its EU 
voting base above 50 per cent from 47 per cent, excluding the UK.
Load-Date: December 30, 2020
End of Document
O’Leary ready to pounce as Ryanair ’s rivals crumble
O’Leary ready to pounce as Ryanair’s rivals crumble
 
FT.com
December 27, 2020 Sunday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 898 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Airlines are facing their worst crisis in a generation and Michael O’Leary is in no mood to waste it. As rivals have 
collapsed and retreated, the Ryanair chief executive is on the hunt for opportunities to increase the Irish airline’s 
dominance of European airspace. 
“I have never in my 30 years in the industry seen such a clean-out,” Mr O’Leary told the Financial Times in an 
interview. “The real seismic change from Covid will be the growth opportunities across Europe. They are much 
greater than after the financial crisis or 9/11.” 
Airline capacity has been gutted during the pandemic, creating a window for survivors to fill the gaps once people 
start flying again. Thomas Cook and Flybe have collapsed while Norwegian — until recently a big operator in the 
European market — has entered administration.
Mr O’Leary predicted that 100m of his competitors’ seats would be taken out over the next 18 months, around a 15 
per cent reduction on normal passenger traffic. 
“Somebody has to step up and take that capacity” he said, adding that he was in discussions with airports in Italy 
and Spain, which had been Norwegian customers, about filling those slots with Ryanair planes. 
Mr O’Leary has cultivated a reputation for outlandish claims as he has overseen more than two decades of near 
continuous growth at Ryanair, based on slashing costs and maximising efficiencies to undercut rivals and take their 
passengers. 
O’Leary ready to pounce as Ryanair ’s rivals crumble
But low-cost carriers are widely expected to lead the recovery in flying because the short-haul and leisure markets 
they serve will rebound faster than intercontinental and business travel. 
Traditional flag carriers, such as British Airways, Air France and Lufthansa, rely on using their short-haul networks 
to feed passengers into their hubs and on to long-haul flights. 
“The shape of the demand recovery favours airlines exposed to short-haul leisure traffic,” said Daniel Roeska, 
aviation analyst at Bernstein. 
Or, as Mr O’Leary put it: “Everyone who has been trapped and gone on holiday to Bognor Regis will want to go to 
Portugal, Italy and Greece.”
Predictably, an executive who has historically used industry downturns to  cut his own costs is driving a hard 
bargain. “The question is which airports are most commercial about regrowing their traffic quickly in summer 2021,” 
he said. 
London Stansted was “all over us” when UK rival easyJet announced it would close its base there, he added. 
Ryanair hoovered up more than 300 of easyJet’s weekly slots at the airport for next summer. 
Still, the initial impact of the pandemic on Ryanair has been bruising. It expects to  carry just 38m passengers this 
year, a fifth of 2019’s number, and suffered a net loss of €197m for the six months to September. Losses in the 
second half of its financial year are expected to be greater, especially after the fresh wave of flight cancellations this 
week, as countries closed their borders to the UK over concerns of a new strain of the virus. 
The latest uncertainty came as a blow to an industry hopeful that an uptick in travel over Christmas could offer 
some much needed cash during the lean winter months. 
Despite this, Andrew Lobbenberg, head of airlines research at HSBC, agreed there was an opportunity for Ryanair 
to grow as flag-carriers lost out on long-haul flights and weaker rivals disappeared. 
The Irish carrier has also signalled its ambition by confirming a discounted order for  Boeing’s troubled 737 Max 
aircraft, which will cut its costs further when it begins taking deliveries from early next year. 
But Mr Lobbenberg cautioned that any expansion was not “going to be immediate. Everything is gradual and 
increasingly it is hard to anticipate the pace of it”. 
While easyJet is regarded as having taken a more conservative approach to the crisis, Hungarian low-cost carrier 
Wizz Air has promised to take on Ryanair as it expands out of its eastern European heartlands to become a 
regional player.
Dirk-Maarten Molenaar, a partner at Boston Consulting Group, said legacy carriers were also becoming more 
flexible and the “last thing” companies such as BA wanted to do was make significant cuts to the short-haul 
networks they need to feed into their hubs. 
Despite the recent pressures, Ryanair’s share price is higher than it was a year ago — and has risen by about a 
quarter since the start of November — as investors have been encouraged that the rollout of Covid vaccines would 
fuel a recovery. 
Mr O’Leary said there had been a “noticeable but single-digit” uplift in bookings over the past month, but from a 
“very, very low base”.
He conceded that his plans were dependent on the swift rollout of vaccines by the governments he regularly  
savages for incompetence and inefficiency. “They will mess about but ultimately they will throw so much money at 
the vaccine they will get there,” he said of the UK government. 
O’Leary ready to pounce as Ryanair ’s rivals crumble
Ryanair has a “working assumption” that it will fly between 90m and 130m passengers in the year to March 2022, a 
wide spread based on how quickly the demand for travel returns. It is well below 2019’s nearly 150m passengers, a 
number the chief executive did not see returning until at least 2023.
“We have consistently been planning for a reasonably quick recovery and constantly disappointed, what has 
changed is the vaccines are arriving,” said Mr O’Leary. “The issue for our industry is, is that recovery in May or 
August? We just don’t know.”
Load-Date: December 27, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair cancels UK routes in dispute with regulator
Ryanair cancels UK routes in dispute with regulator
 
FT.com
December 21, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 526 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Ryanair has abruptly cancelled 12 of its UK domestic and international routes, following a disagreement with the 
UK’s regulator that the company said left operation of the flights “impossible” ahead of Brexit. 
The low-cost Irish carrier secured an operating licence for its UK subsidiary nearly two years ago to allow it to keep 
UK traffic rights and protect its operations from January 1 when the Brexit transition period ends.
The aim was to ensure it could continue to fly domestic routes inside the UK, as well as to countries outside the EU 
such as Morocco.
But Ryanair said the Civil Aviation Authority introduced new regulatory barriers on Sunday evening, just 10 days 
before the transition ends. 
The airline did not elaborate on the restrictions, but the CAA said Ryanair was planning to use leased, foreign-
owned aircraft on its UK operations. 
“It has been our longstanding position that a UK airline with a significant presence in the UK, such as Ryanair UK 
does, should not rely heavily on using wet-leased, foreign-registered aircraft to undertake their operations. Doing so 
undermines the competitiveness of the UK aviation industry,” the regulator said. 
Wet leases involve aircraft being leased along with crew, maintenance and insurance.
Ryanair cancels UK routes in dispute with regulator
Ryanair has only one aircraft listed on the UK’s register, out of the more than 450 in its fleet. The carrier said the 
changes affect routes from London, Manchester, Liverpool, Edinburgh, Belfast and Derry.
“Ryanair UK had agreed Brexit contingency arrangements with the CAA two years ago and cannot comply with its 
new and impractical requirements at 10 days’ notice,” the airline said. 
The regulator denied that. “It is incorrect for the airline to state that the UK Civil Aviation Authority has changed its 
wet-leasing policy at short notice,” it said. 
An industry executive told the Financial Times that the carrier had been trying to use foreign-owned aircraft in its UK 
subsidiary because of the general operational  disruption caused by Covid-19, leading it to fall foul of the rules. 
Ryanair has long been confident that it would be able to operate flights uninterrupted regardless of the outcome of 
the Brexit talks, so long as a basic contingency arrangement to keep planes in the air was agreed. 
But the problem that emerged on Monday highlights the potential  unexpected pitfalls that the UK’s complicated 
separation from the EU throws up for airlines that have long prospered from near total freedom of the skies within 
the EU’s single market. 
In particular, airlines have been forced to examine their ownership structures to ensure flights can stay in the air.   
Hungary’s Wizz Air has secured a similar UK licence to Ryanair’s, while easyJet set up a subsidiary in Vienna so it 
could continue intra-EU flights after Brexit.
Brussels has strict rules requiring airlines in effect to be owned and controlled by EU nationals if they wanted to 
retain operating licences to fly in the bloc from January. 
The rules have implications for how airlines, including British Airways and Iberia owner International Airlines Group, 
navigate Brexit because UK shareholders will no longer count as EU nationals. 
Load-Date: December 22, 2020
End of Document
Airlines take fresh hit as travel bans spread
Airlines take fresh hit as travel bans spread
 
FT.com
December 21, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 496 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Airlines cancelled scores of flights on Monday as a growing list of countries banned travel from the UK, 
compounding the crisis facing the aviation industry following a year of unprecedented disruption.
Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Hong Kong and India are among the  countries to have blocked people arriving from 
the UK in an effort to control the spread of a new more infectious variant of coronavirus. 
Shares in major airlines were among the worst hit during a stock market sell-off across Europe, with easyJet and 
IAG, owner of British Airways, leading the declines with losses of nearly 10 per cent each. 
Lower-cost carriers less exposed to the UK market and continental airlines suffered less steep falls, with Ryanair 
and Air France-KLM each down about 5 per cent. 
The UK government on Saturday placed London and south-east England under  strict lockdown, banning all non-
essential travel, and warned that a new mutation of Covid-19 was up to 70 per cent more transmissible, prompting 
countries to respond with travel bans.
Flights were cancelled at airports across the UK, from Edinburgh to Birmingham as the travel restrictions took hold.
Winter is typically a quiet period for airlines, but bookings tend to rise over the Christmas period as people travel 
home to visit friends and relatives, or jet off chasing winter sun.
Airlines take fresh hit as travel bans spread
There were more than 900 daily flights between the UK and EU countries last week, and data from air navigation 
safety body Eurocontrol showed air traffic was nudging higher prior to the travel bans which began to take hold on 
Sunday.
“We’ll see a significant impact on the network as a result of the new variant in the UK, Eurocontrol’s director-general 
Eamon Brennan said. 
Aviation analysts said the rise in festive bookings would have offered a cash lifeline following the recent collapse in 
revenue.
“There is a very real risk that instead of relief the Christmas period will not aid airlines’ cash balances,” Daniel 
Roeska, an analyst at Bernstein said.
Mr Roeska said IAG and easyJet were already facing questions over whether they would need more resources to 
see them through until traffic returns to more normal levels. 
“Any worsening cash flow trends, in our view, increase the pressure on the companies to find more liquidity and if 
the debt capital markets remain sluggish, a renewed equity raise may be the only way out,” he said. 
Paul Charles, whose PC Agency advises more than 30 companies, estimated that about 250,000 travellers would 
be affected if disruption lasted until January 1. 
Gatwick airport said 46 flights in and out of the airport were cancelled as of late Monday morning, about a fifth of its 
schedule for the day.
Heathrow, the UK’s busiest airport, was unable to give an update on how many flights had been cancelled due to 
the “evolving situation”, and asked passengers not to come to the airport without a ticket. 
Its departure boards showed flights to destinations including Prague, Dublin and Munich as cancelled. 
Load-Date: December 21, 2020
End of Document
Norwegian Air woes reveal the hazy status of corporate nationality
Norwegian Air woes reveal the hazy status of corporate nationality
 
FT.com
December 16, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 736 words
Byline: Richard Milne, Nordic and Baltic Correspondent
Body
How Irish is Norwegian Air Shuttle? An  Irish judge wanted to know last week. Enough to grant protection from 
creditors, it turned out.
A few weeks earlier the Norwegian government was asking the low-cost airline how Norwegian it really was. Not 
enough to get a second bailout was the  government’s conclusion.
The nationality of a company can often seem unimportant. Businesses are founded in one country, move to a 
second and can list on the stock exchange in a third, all while their main business could be in a fourth.
But as Norwegian and others have discovered in recent months, when things go badly, nationality can suddenly 
become very important.
The airline started life almost three decades ago as a regional Norwegian carrier. It was in this country that it took 
steps first to become a low-cost challenger to SAS in Scandinavia and then a rival to Ryanair and easyJet in much 
of the rest of Europe. 
High-cost, heavily unionised Norway does not seem the ideal country from which to launch a low-cost airline. And 
so it proved as Norwegian set up subsidiaries in Ireland for operations and aircraft financing and also in UK for 
operations, as well as countries such as Spain, Denmark, and Sweden for staffing.
Norwegian Air woes reveal the hazy status of corporate nationality
Hubris then appeared to strike. It started regional flights in Argentina at the same time as it tried to crack the 
lucrative transatlantic market, something no low-cost carrier had ever managed. Soon, rivals, analysts and bankers 
were forecasting a humbling as its  rapid expansion led to an equally rapid growth in debt. 
Norwegian entered the Covid-19 pandemic as one of the most heavily leveraged of large airlines in Europe and 
despite a first, limited  bailout from Oslo it was clear that surviving this winter was going to be an almighty 
challenge.
Norwegian is undoubtedly an important airline in Norway and many away from Oslo remember the days of an SAS 
monopoly and the high ticket prices that came with that. But Norwegian politicians were hesitant to back it further, 
worrying not just about its high debt load but also if it was sufficiently Norwegian.
“I feel like they have the name, but very little else has been Norwegian in the last few years. The crew are Danish or 
Spanish or British. Do we have to support them just because they are called Norwegian?” one opposition politician 
told me this autumn.
The government concluded no. Weeks later though, Irish judge Michael Quinn was asking Norwegian to justify its 
Irish nature. Lawyers for the airline pointed to bases in the country for both Norwegian Air International, which it 
used for flights from the UK and Ireland to the US, and Arctic Aviation Asset, the group’s financing arm. The judge 
was satisfied, and the Irish equivalent of Chapter-11  bankruptcy protection was unleashed. A day later, the 
company filed for a reconstruction under Norwegian law as well.
It is not just Norwegian that has confused nationality in the Nordics. Ikea is often described as a Swedish retailer. 
But its two main headquarters have not been in Sweden for more than four decades, even if it retains a strong 
presence there. They moved first to Denmark, and then the Netherlands. The two main parts of the flat-pack 
furniture empire are based in Leiden and Delft, and owned by Dutch and Liechtenstein foundations. Tax clearly 
played a role, but so did the demand of founder Ingvar Kamprad that they be protected from takeover and banks, 
hence the foundation owners designed to give Ikea “eternal life”.
Does it matter to those that buy meatballs in stores clad in the colours of the Swedish flag, or people flying in planes 
with Thor Heyerdahl or Roald Dahl on the  tail fins? Perhaps not, but it may surprise them and at the margins, affect 
their view of the brand and its desirability. 
Still, companies have to be aware of the downsides of being too rootless, especially when times are tough. The 
centre-left Norwegian politician said: “Theresa May [former UK prime minister] talked of  citizens of nowhere; I’m 
worried some companies are like that.” 
Norwegian has now bought itself time through the tricky winter season to try to restructure its debts and sell some 
aircraft in the hope of becoming a leaner, more viable airline. Meanwhile, for those in Norway worried that not 
backing Norwegian could lead to less competition, help has arrived. Hungary’s Wizz Air is offering flights between 
Oslo and Tromso at an even lower price.
richard.milne@ft.com
Load-Date: December 16, 2020
End of Document
England’s new testing programme for travellers overwhelmed within hours
England’s new testing programme for travellers overwhelmed within hours
 
FT.com
December 15, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 714 words
Byline: Jim Pickard, Philip Georgiadis and Anna Gross in London
Body
The government’s new system of private coronavirus testing to allow travellers to slash quarantine from 10 to five 
days was in chaos within hours of its launch on Tuesday.
Many of the 12 providers approved by the government admitted they had already run out of tests, some websites 
crashed and others were not ready to receive bookings. 
The “test and release” scheme for travellers was announced last month and had been welcomed by the airline 
industry as  a way to encourage travel by halving the amount of time people have to self-isolate after entering 
England from overseas.
But the providers approved by the government were left struggling on the first day of the programme when 
prospective passengers tried to access more information through the Department for Transport website.
Two companies, SameDayDoctor and The Private GP Clinic, advised people that they were unable to offer tests for 
returning travellers, and were replaced with other companies on Tuesday morning. 
“Unfortunately we have been so overwhelmed with requests for test and release that we cannot answer any more 
emails nor take any more bookings,” SameDayDoctor said.
A link to one provider, Oncologica, diverted people to another called Screen4, whose website crashed early in the 
morning — although both sites were running later in the day. The website of another approved company, 
Medicspot, said that tests were not yet available to be booked. 
England’s new testing programme for travellers overwhelmed within hours
The London General Practice, also on the list, said its website was “currently under maintenance”, although it was 
taking bookings by telephone. 
Halo Verify, another provider, said on its website that it was offering test kits for £89 before clarifying that they were 
out of stock. The company was instead accepting bookings by telephone. 
Rupert Channing, senior commercial adviser at testing provider Chronomics, said that since the scheme went live 
last night, demand had been significantly above expectations set out by government. 
“Even the most optimistic guide they gave us, this is way outside it,” he said. “By 10pm, we had over 3,500 pre-
orders. This morning it’s been at that level and higher.”
Mr Channing said the government had done an impressive job of getting the programme up and running but “if they 
had thought about it a bit more, they might have decided not to launch this directly in the Christmas period when 
there's the potential for a perfect storm”.
Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O'Leary told the Financial Times he was not surprised by the problems with the 
testing system. 
“Nothing that the Johnson government does surprises me. They promised a world-class test and tracing system. All 
they have delivered is world-class incompetence,” he said. 
The government said that the private sector healthcare companies approved for the test and release programme 
were required to meet minimum standards that were higher than those recommended for general testing of the 
population, such as for private sector workforces.
Ministers plan to certify larger testing providers that are likely to have significantly greater capacity, one aviation 
industry executive said. Collinson, an airport services company with significant testing capacity, was added to the 
approved list of companies on Wednesday afternoon. 
Paul Charles, chief executive of travel consultancy The PC Agency, said the chaotic situation was likely to put off 
many people from trying to get tested. “It’s a chaotic start for a system that was flagged as a solution to travel 
recovery. It has been weeks in planning yet has taken just minutes to fall apart,” he said.
“This is not the way for governments to instil confidence in consumers and help them travel seamlessly.” 
But Airlines UK, the industry body, welcomed the new programme. “The test to release scheme is a huge step 
forward for UK aviation and will open up markets and get people travelling again,” it said in a statement. “Clearly 
there have been teething problems today but these will be resolved and more providers added to the approved list.” 
The DfT said: “We have set high standards for any providers involved to ensure that we do not import Covid-19 into 
the UK at such a critical time. The list of approved providers is being constantly updated, with several larger 
businesses added today to help meet any backlog.”
Load-Date: December 15, 2020
End of Document
Klarna takes the long road to IPO
Klarna takes the long road to IPO
 
FT.com
December 14, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 804 words
Byline: Richard Milne
Body
When a start-up IPOs, it is often the culmination of a frantic period of growth.
But, assuming that Klarna pulls the trigger on a stock market listing in the next one or two years, it will be more than 
15 years after the Swedish fintech and bank launched.
The “buy now, pay later” company was started by a trio of business school friends in Stockholm in 2005 and sought 
to bring invoicing — still common among consumers in the Nordics — into the world of digital shopping.
Klarna has since expanded out of the Nordics to Germany, the UK and Australia as well as the US, the most crucial 
part of its pre-IPO preparations. 
Slowly the pieces are falling into place. In the past three months alone, Klarna has raised $650m in fresh capital at 
a valuation of $11bn; launched a partnership with US department store Macy’s; and, most recently, revamped its 
board including the addition of Silicon Valley veteran Sir Michael Moritz as chairman.
Sebastian Siemiatkowski, Klarna’s chief executive and one of its co-founders, is still coy about any potential timing. 
He has said that an IPO is likely in the next couple of years, but that the latest funding round could buy the 
company more time to stay private. 
In any case, Mr Siemiatkowski is clear that growth in the US is the priority. So ferocious has been the pace of its 
expansion that the fintech — which had been profitable ever since it started — made its first ever annual loss last 
year.
Klarna takes the long road to IPO
He also hinted that its move into retail banking in Europe — it was the continent’s first large fintech to get a banking 
licence in 2017 — could be replicated in the US. He has previously said he wants to become the “Ryanair” of 
banking, disrupting incumbents worldwide.
There are undoubtedly challenges ahead of an IPO. Klarna says it makes most of its money by charging merchants 
fees. But it still makes money in some countries by charging customers for late payments, which critics argue fuels 
irresponsible spending, particularly among young people. The payment deferral programme has become so 
ubiquitous that “to klarna” has become a verb for some UK shoppers.
Klarna last week said it wanted to be regulated in the UK by the Financial Conduct Authority, and would start to 
report missed payments to credit reference agencies.
Credit losses in the first nine months of this year jumped by about a third compared with the same period in 2019, a 
similar rise to that in revenues. 
Mr Siemiatkowski has shown previously that he can be far more patient than the typical start-up founder, working 
hard to get his product right. Potential investors in a Klarna IPO can expect the same, long build-up to any listing.
Quick Fire Q&A
Company name: Kneip 
When founded: 1993 
Where based: Luxembourg
CEO: Enrique Sacau 
What do you sell, and who do you sell it to: We provide fund data management solutions, regulatory reporting 
and consultancy services to the asset management community. 
How did you get started: Founder Bob Kneip launched the company in 1993 as an agency specialising in the 
production of annual reports for businesses. 
Amount of money raised so far: N/A
Valuation at latest fundraising: N/A
Major shareholders: Founder Bob Kneip and management.
There are lots of fintechs out there — what makes you so special: We offer a unique blend of technology, 
regulatory expertise and a service trusted by asset managers for more than 27 years. 
Further fintech fascination
Wirecard fallout:  The Financial Times reports that Germany is to probe the head of the audit watchdog after he 
admitted to buying and selling shares in Wirecard while his own institution was investigating the company’s auditor. 
Also,  documents seen by the FT show that Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank provided funding for Wirecard’s 
acquisition of a pair of Indian companies referred to in the fraud allegations against the fintech group. 
Follow the money: Sweden’s Tink, which runs open banking platforms, has raised €85m in a funding round that 
gave it a valuation of €680m,  says TechCrunch. The company links up 3,400 banks covering 250m people. The 
latest funding round was backed by Eurazeo Growth, Dawn Capital, PayPal Ventures, ABN Amro Ventures and 
BNP Paribas’ venture arm. 
Klarna takes the long road to IPO
New frontiers: Sifted reports that the UK fintech sector has launched a new lobby group, Fintech Founders, to 
ensure that its voice is better heard by the government. The founders fear that the start-ups are losing out to the 
financial services establishment when it comes to arguing their case in the corridors of power. 
Crypto chronicles: US insurer MassMutual has joined the ranks of Bitcoin enthusiasts,  reports the Wall Street 
Journal. The newspaper says that MassMutual bought $100m of the digital currency for its $235bn general 
investment account. The insurer said it was part of a strategy to take advantage of new opportunities.
Load-Date: December 14, 2020
End of Document
Boeing ’s 737 Max prepares for long haul to recovery
Boeing’s 737 Max prepares for long haul to recovery
 
FT.com
December 11, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1573 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger, International Business Editor
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary is fond of superlatives, so there was no shortage of them when he placed 
a $7bn order for 75 of Boeing’s 737 Max aircraft last week.
“This is not just a safe aircraft . . . It is the safest, most audited, most regulated aircraft that has ever been delivered 
in the history of civil aviation,” he declared, as he signed the biggest firm order for the ill-starred passenger jet since 
it was grounded after two fatal crashes 20 months ago.
The deal was not the only good news for Boeing, whose credibility is on the line after failures in the Max programme 
led to the deaths of 346 people. 
Safety regulators in the US have begun to issue the first airworthiness certificates to individual aircraft, launching 
what is expected to be a steady return to service of more than 800 passenger jets that had been parked since 
authorities banned the Max from the skies in March 2019. 
Gol, the Brazilian airline, told the Financial Times that “a very important milestone” had been passed, as it became 
the first airline to resume commercial 737 Max flights on Wednesday.
The return of the Max not only begins to close a dire chapter in Boeing’s history, it reignites competition in the 
hottest segment of the aviation market. Boeing’s European rival Airbus has been virtually unchallenged in the 
market for single-aisle aircraft since the Max was grounded.
Boeing ’s 737 Max prepares for long haul to recovery
“That is important for the industry,” said Aengus Kelly, chief executive of one of the world’s biggest purchasers of 
aircraft, the leasing company, AerCap. “We have to have competition. We can’t have a situation where one 
manufacturer has so much market share that the other one is irrelevant.”
The aerospace supply chain, too, is hoping for a boost from the rehabilitation of the Max, an important cash 
generator for many companies. 
Clouds on the horizon
But the return to service of the Max and Ryanair’s order is only the start of a long haul for Boeing and for the wider 
industry, which is struggling to pull through one of the worst aviation crises of modern times. 
While big carriers such as American Airlines are also expected to start flying passengers on the Max this month, it 
will be some time before this translates into a flood of new orders from a global airline industry braced for net losses 
of $118bn this year and nearly $40bn in 2021. 
Since the Max was grounded, orders for about 1,000 of the passenger jets have either been cancelled or deemed 
too risky to include in Boeing’s backlog of roughly 3,300 aircraft. 
Even if passenger traffic begins to recover next year after vaccine breakthroughs, airlines will have to deal with the 
debt taken on during the crisis before they begin buying in bulk. 
Moreover, there is little incentive for leasing companies, which accounted for roughly 40 per cent of all aircraft 
purchases before the crisis, to buy the Max direct from Boeing when airlines are desperate to raise cash by selling 
and then leasing back jets.
“We are paying less to airlines than we would have done for the aircraft we cancelled. It’s the airline that is taking 
the haircut,” a senior executive from a top 10 lessor told the Financial Times.
A faultless re-entry
In the meantime, Boeing’s priority is rebuilding passenger confidence through a faultless re-entry into service of the 
Max. The pace of return will be measured and Boeing employees will be on hand to prepare even those aircraft 
owned by airlines for commercial service. 
“Boeing will want to be very much a part of that process because they can’t afford to have any issues,” said Phil 
Seymour, president of IBA, the aviation advisory. “Even something that is not tragic will get on to social media.”
Boeing expects it will take roughly two years just to clear the 450 single-aisle aircraft that it could not deliver over 
the past 20 months. A further 387 sit in airline hangars and they, too, will have to go through extensive work. 
Each one of those jets will have to be pulled out of storage, updated with new software to address the malfunction 
that caused the crashes, and checked for any deterioration caused by months of standing still.
Components in aircraft that were stored in coastal areas may have suffered from corrosion as a result of sea air, for 
example, while aircraft housed in dry climates such as deserts may have problems with sand or grit.
United Airlines, which has 15 Max aircraft in its fleet, estimates it takes more than 1,000 hours of work to prep a 
single jet for commercial operation. 
Finally, every aircraft will have to be inspected by safety regulators as Boeing has lost the right to self-certification 
after revelations that it misled regulators on the Max. This right may eventually be reinstated, if regulators are 
confident about Boeing’s processes.
Playing catch-up with Airbus
Boeing ’s 737 Max prepares for long haul to recovery
The return of the Max will affect Airbus too, which has seen its share of the popular single-aisle segment nudge 60 
per cent. 
Even before the Max was grounded, Airbus was scooping up orders for its A320neo and A321 family of narrow-
body aircraft at a faster pace than the 737 Max. 
Now the shadow of a price war hangs over the industry as Boeing seeks to find homes for the orphan aircraft sitting 
in its hangars and to avert further cancellations.
Boeing and Airbus insist they will not be dragged into one. But industry executives talk of hearing about a deal at 
just $35m for a 737 Max, against a list price of $121.6m and a more normal average selling price of about $60m. 
Industry executives say Boeing must try to close the chasm that has emerged with Airbus. It is not just about the 
success of the Max programme — the company’s reputation and future as a commercial aircraft maker are at 
stake. 
“At the absolute minimum they have to hold their own and have to do whatever it takes to hold their own because 
Airbus has had no competition in the last couple of years,” said Mr Kelly. 
“Airlines take a decision on a narrow-body plane every 20 years. That makes it very hard to regain market share. If 
you lose a customer, the next opportunity to flip that customer is 15 to 20 years away.”
Some analysts are pessimistic that Boeing will be able to close the gap. Customers are not only seeking more 
capacity in their single-aisle aircraft but they want narrow-body aircraft with the range of more costly wide-bodies to 
help bring down operating costs. Airbus’s A321 — a larger, longer-range derivative of the A320neo — fits the bill 
better than the Max, say analysts. 
“Will Boeing ever catch up? No,” said Ron Epstein, aerospace analyst at Bank of America. “While they were fixing 
the Max, their competitor was putting finishing touches on the 321XLR, a very capable long-range narrow-body 
aircraft. It is more capable than anything Boeing has.” 
Boeing’s response to the A321 is the larger Max 10 — due to enter service in 2022. But with a shorter range than 
the latest A321 variants it is regarded by many as less capable. 
As for the core of Boeing’s short-haul offering, the 170-190 seater Max 8 jet is “a wonderful plane for what it does, 
but it is one plane”, said Mr Epstein.
The danger of doing nothing
Boeing has no illusions about the challenges but remains steadfastly loyal to its Max family. “We have the utmost 
faith in this product,” said Boeing president and chief executive Dave Calhoun last week at the signing of the 
Ryanair order. 
The US company is betting that even before any significant recovery in passenger traffic, airlines already operating 
older 737s will want to replace them with the greener Max 8. 
“You can take any airline in the world and they have retired their older 737s earlier than they planned,” said Boeing 
spokesman Gordon Johndroe. “These airlines will need aircraft to replace the retired jets and for eventual growth. 
They want the Max because it is cheaper to operate and helps airlines meet their sustainability targets.”
But there are those who believe there will be no change in the competitive landscape without a new single-aisle 
aircraft to take on the A321.
“We are tackling a tectonic shift in market share if Boeing does nothing,” said Richard Aboulafia, vice-president at 
Teal Group, the aerospace consultancy. “The A321 is not the optimal version. Its main virtue is that it is alone.” 
Boeing ’s 737 Max prepares for long haul to recovery
Yet with more than $60bn in debt and any sustainable cash boost from the Max likely to be two years away, Boeing 
executives are wary of taking another gamble that could cost the company dear. 
Engine technology is not at a stage to allow a new aircraft to claim a step-change in fuel savings. And there are 
concerns that any talk of a new aircraft could scupper the success of the Max, now intricately tied to that of Boeing. 
“If Boeing were to announce a new single aisle plane in the next two or three years, no one would buy the Max,” 
said one Boeing customer.
Boeing is expected to try to delay a new aircraft for as long as possible, to allow technology and time to erase the 
memories of the Max crisis. In the meantime, it will be sounding out customers for what their needs might be when 
the market eventually recovers from the pandemic.
“If anyone thinks they know what the market will be like and what airline customers will want in a couple years from 
now, they don’t know what they are talking about,” said a Boeing executive. “Research continues, but we really 
have to get through the pandemic before we make any definitive statements.”
Additional reporting by Bryan Harris in São Paulo and Claire Bushey in Chicago
Load-Date: December 11, 2020
End of Document
Boeing clinches first firm order for 737 Max since aircraft’s grounding
Boeing clinches first firm order for 737 Max since aircraft’s grounding
 
FT.com
December 3, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 670 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger and Philip Georgiadis in London and Claire Bushey in Chicago
Body
Boeing on Thursday clinched its first firm order for the troubled 737 Max since the aircraft was grounded 20 months 
ago, with a multibillion-dollar deal for 75 passenger jets from Ryanair, Europe’s biggest low-cost airline.
The order marks the beginning of efforts to rehabilitate the aircraft — as well as Boeing’s own reputation — after  
two fatal accidents within five months left 346 people dead.  
Investigations following the crashes revealed Boeing had concealed  design flaws in flight control software from 
pilots and regulators in a race to get the aircraft certified. 
The flawed anti-stall system, deemed a critical factor in the accidents, has been redesigned and pilots will have to 
go through more extensive training programmes. 
The Federal Aviation Administration last month declared the jet  safe to fly and other regulators are expected to 
follow suit in the coming weeks. 
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair — already one of Boeing’s biggest Max customers — said he was 
“confident that our customers will love these new aircraft”.
At list prices, the order is worth close to $8bn, but analysts expect the Ryanair boss to have negotiated a steep 
discount given that it brings the airline’s total 737 Max order to 210 aircraft worth a headline $22bn. Normally, 
aircraft are sold at discounts of about 50 per cent to catalogue prices but the reduction is likely to have been even 
greater in the current climate.
Boeing clinches first firm order for 737 Max since aircraft’s grounding
Mr O’Leary told the Financial Times that there had been a “modest further improvement in the pricing. It’s not huge. 
But every modest reduction you can get when placing an order for up to $22bn, a small discount is a lot of money.” 
But Scott Hamilton of Leeham, an aerospace consultancy, noted that “modest” is a subjective term.
“Michael O’Leary is a well-known bottom feeder,” he said. “I think he got a really screaming good deal. Whether it’s 
compensation or deep, deep discounts, it’s right pocket, left pocket. Michael will have played this very well to his 
advantage.”
The price could have been mitigated by relief on downpayments, on the cost of EU tariffs imposed on Boeing 
aircraft in  the battle over subsidies, and “lots of flexibility on delivery slots”, said Rob Stallard, aerospace analyst at 
Vertical Research Partners.
Boeing chief executive Dave Calhoun said he had “always had faith the order books would begin to fill” once 
regulators approved the aircraft as safe to fly and the industry began to recover. 
He also suggested that Boeing’s expectations for recovery of the industry had been boosted by the prospect of a 
successful coronavirus vaccine. The timeline for recovery was “a little more aggressive” than its forecast earlier this 
year for a three-to-five-year recovery, he said.
Ryanair’s decision to commit to fleet expansion during one of the industry’s deepest downturns also signals its 
determination to cement a cost advantage over emerging competitors such as the rapidly growing Wizz Air. 
The Ryanair boss also said he expected the new aircraft to take the airlines’ unit cost from its current €31 per seat 
to below €30. It would “transform” the company’s cost base, he said.
The 737 Max 8200 is based on the core Max 8 variant but will be able to carry roughly eight more revenue-
generating passengers. 
Ryanair said it would start taking delivery of the aircraft from early next year continuing through to December 2024. 
It brings the carrier’s total order for these larger aircraft to 210. It said they would be used to replace the older NG 
variant and were up to 16 per cent more fuel-efficient.
For Boeing, the hope is that the order will spark confidence in the Max, which even before the crisis had been 
lagging behind rival Airbus’s A320 family in net orders. 
In total, 4,489 Max single-aisle aircraft have been sold against 7,455 of Airbus’s A320neo variants, according to 
Cirium, the fleet data specialists. Cirium also notes that slightly more than 1,000 Max orders have been cancelled or 
judged by Boeing to be at risk of cancellation this year alone. 
Load-Date: December 4, 2020
End of Document
City Bulletin: GardaWorld ups its bid for G4S
City Bulletin: GardaWorld ups its bid for G4S
 
FT.com
December 2, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 877 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Mixed messages from the Canadian private security group stalking G4S, which  raised its hostile takeover offer to 
£3.68bn while delivering another diatribe on why the business is failing. 
GardaWorld offered to buy G4S for 235p a share in cash, up from 190p previously. Its improved terms represent a 
premium of 130 per cent versus G4S’s undisturbed share price on June 12, the day before GardaWorld’s interest 
became public, though is only slightly above Tuesday’s closing level of 229p.
The Canadian company also lowered its approval threshold from 90 per cent of G4S shares to a simple majority 
and said it had reached a deal with pension fund trustees to provide a £770m support package. Shareholders have 
until December 16 to accept the offer, which GardaWorld said was final.
Stephan Crétier, GardaWorld’s outspoken founder, gave another 350 words on why G4S had “consistently failed” 
both its shareholders and the wider community. The company “has been steadily weakened by a senior 
management team which has destroyed nearly £1bn of value in the last seven years, wasted hundreds of millions 
on restructuring programmes that do nothing for margins and chased an unsustainable dividend policy fuelled by 
debt and disposing of assets on the cheap,” he said. “It’s time for G4S to get back to its entrepreneurial roots.”
Briefly
Tesco said it will repay the UK Government the  £585m of business rates relief it received following the Covid-19 
outbreak. The supermarket, which unlike most retailers was able to stay open through lockdowns, said it was 
City Bulletin: GardaWorld ups its bid for G4S
“immensely grateful for the financial and policy support provided to us by the governments of the UK” but given 
“resilient” trading it would be “doing the right thing by our customers, colleagues and all our stakeholders.”
Estate agent Countrywide said it has rejected a takeover approach from privately owned rival Connells. The 
company said it was discussing revised terms of a potential refinancing led by private equity group Alchemy 
Partners that offered shareholders the opportunity to sell at 250p a share, which matched Connell’s proposed offer. 
Countrywide had previously backed Alchemy’s plan to place shares at 135p apiece. 
Wizz Air’s November traffic figures showed an 84.7 per cent drop in passenger numbers. The airline said that on a 
rolling 12 month basis booked passengers had totalled 19.3m, down 50.6 per cent year on year. Ryanair’s 
November update showed a similar drop with passenger traffic down 82 per cent, or on a rolling 12 month view 
down by 60 per cent to 61.4m.
Landlords including Legal & General and the Royal Festival Hall have begun  taking unpaid rent from tenant 
deposits as a way round a government ban on legal action to recover the money. The government banned 
landlords from taking legal action to recover unpaid rent in March. 
The UK has become the first country to  approve a Covid-19 vaccine following large-scale clinical trials, after its 
regulator authorised the shot developed by Germany’s BioNTech and US pharma giant Pfizer for emergency use.
Also on Wednesday are updates from Stock Spirits, Avon Rubber and Centamin.
Beyond the Square Mile 
Salesforce on Tuesday capped cloud computing’s 2020 work-from-home boom with  an announcement that it 
would pay $27.7bn for workplace chat app Slack. The cash-and-stock deal is the largest in the soaring cloud 
software industry, beating  Microsoft’s $26.2bn purchase of LinkedIn four years ago. The combination brings 
together  Slack’s chat service, which reached more than 12m daily users last year, with Salesforce’s wider range of 
sales, marketing and other business software. 
More than 20 private equity firms  are in the running to invest €300m in the Bundesliga, as Germany’s top football 
league embarks on a radical plan to roll out an international online subscription service. Deutsche Fussball Liga, the 
body that runs Germany’s top two divisions, plans an internet subscription service to screen games across the 
Middle East as well as a new digital media company to sell the Bundesliga’s international rights contracts, data 
services and other commercial propositions.
The chief executive of Volvo Cars will tell  the FT Future of the Car Summit on Wednesday that a ban on sales of 
petrol cars would be a better way to push groups to go electric than offering subsidies for battery vehicles. Hakan 
Samuelsson will say that the internal combustion engine is “a technology of the past”, and welcome the UK’s pledge 
to phase out sales of new petrol and diesel cars by 2030.
Essential comment before you go
Ian Smith
November was the FTSE 100’s best monthly performance  since January 1989, when Kylie Minogue and Jason 
Donovan dominated the British singles chart with “Especially For You”. But the British benchmark has failed to 
mimic Kylie’s talent for reinvention. It keeps on cranking out the same old hits: banking, oil and commodities.
Leila Abboud The pandemic has mercilessly exposed bricks-and-mortar retailers in France. The web has also 
demolished the protection once offered by strict urban planning rules. Despite these worries, the shock to the 
commercial real estate market could be  a good thing for Paris.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
City Bulletin: GardaWorld ups its bid for G4S
Load-Date: December 2, 2020
End of Document
FirstFT: Today’s top stories
FirstFT: Today’s top stories
 
FT.com
November 24, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1456 words
Byline: Jennifer Creery, Emily Goldberg and Gordon Smith
Body
Donald Trump on Monday said his administration would begin  co-operating with Joe Biden’s transition team to 
begin the transfer of power — but stopped short of a formal concession as he vowed to continue contesting the 
election result.
His statement came after Republican senators and leading business executives pressed the president to start the 
transition. Larry Fink, chairman and chief executive of BlackRock, and David Solomon, CEO of Goldman Sachs, 
were among  160 business leaders who voiced concerns about the nature of the transition in  a letter.
Global stocks  rallied on Tuesday after the Trump administration indicated it would work with president-elect Joe 
Biden’s transition team.
On Monday, Michigan’s electoral board approved its election results, cementing Mr Biden’s win in the state. On 
Tuesday, Georgia will begin a recount requested by the Trump campaign, which is not expected to change the 
result certified by Republican officials last week. Nevada, which Mr Biden also won, is also set to certify its results  
today.
Mr Biden, meanwhile, is poised to  choose Janet Yellen as his Treasury secretary, the first woman to hold that 
role. The president-elect has also  unveiled the senior members of his national security team: Antony Blinken as 
secretary of state, Jake Sullivan as national security adviser and John Kerry as climate tsar.  Mr Biden’s picks 
include the first woman to lead intelligence and first Latino to run homeland security. (FT, PFNYC, NYT)
Coronavirus digest
FirstFT: Today’s top stories
•
US airports had their  busiest weekend since March despite public health officials’ pleas for Americans to 
curtail Thanksgiving travel. US coronavirus hospitalisations  topped 85,000 patients on Monday, a record 
for the 14th day running.
•
Boris Johnson has  replaced England’s “stay at home” national lockdown with a toughened  tier system of 
restrictions to last until the end of March. 
•
Qantas plans to insist that passengers on its international flights have been  vaccinated against Covid-19 
before boarding once any jab is rolled out. The chief executive of Ryanair, Europe’s largest budget airline, 
said the UK’s quarantine measures are a  “fig leaf that doesn’t work”.
•
China’s sensors have  removed internet posts calculating the value of the country’s response to the 
pandemic after a backlash from online users. China has also  tightened its grip on livestreaming sites.
•
Vaccines face a  trust gap in Black and Latino communities, a study has found. Oil prices hit  their highest 
level since March on vaccines hopes. (FT, WaPo)
Remdesivir once drew praise from the White House and a rush for orders. How did the first antiviral to treat Covid-
19  fall from grace? (FT)
Follow our  live blog for the latest developments and our  global economic impact tracker.
In the news
Credit Suisse to take $450m hedge fund hit Credit Suisse expects to take a $450m hit in the fourth quarter after 
York Capital Management, the US alternative investment group in which it owns a stake, said it would  wind down 
its European hedge fund business. (FT)
UK warns on British judges in Hong Kong Senior UK ministers have warned that British judges in Hong Kong 
should not lend  “a veneer of respectability” to the city’s legal system if it is compromised by Beijing’s new security 
law. (FT)
EY to give staff legal protection during Wirecard inquiry EY has reached a deal with German politicians to give 
its auditors  protection from the legal risk of giving evidence at a Wirecard inquiry and warned its staff to prepare for 
more fallout from hearings taking place this week. Germany’s blue-chip Dax index  is to expand in the wake of the 
Wirecard scandal. (FT)
China bond defaults Several high-profile bond defaults have  shaken investors’ faith that local governments will 
always bail out state-owned borrowers. China’s currency, however, is on course to record its  best six months 
against the dollar on record. (FT)
Peru sells century bonds The South American nation has joined a select group of countries issuing debt  that 
matures in 100 years, as investors looked past the acute political crisis that has engulfed the country in recent 
weeks. (FT)
France to pass contentious security law France is set to approve  a security law on Tuesday to strengthen police 
powers and restrict the way in which images identifying individual police officers can be used. (FT)
Netanyahu’s secret meeting with Saudi crown prince Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu met Crown 
Prince Mohammed bin Salman during a  secret two-hour trip to Saudi Arabia, according to an Israeli official and 
local media, in a visit that would signal a historic shift in relations between the erstwhile foes. (FT)
Thai protesters take aim at big businesses The company that runs one of Thailand’s most-watched news 
channels has softened the tone of its coverage of pro-democracy mass protests after being targeted by a  
consumer boycott. Meanwhile, Singapore has  charged civil activist Jolovan Wham, who held a sign bearing a 
smiley face, for participating in an illegal public assembly involving only himself. (FT)
FirstFT: Today’s top stories
China launches mission to bring back moon rocks An unmanned mission which aims to deposit a probe on the 
moon and  bring back to earth about 2kg of rocks and soil from the planet’s surface, blasted off from the southern 
island province of Hainan in China on Tuesday. (FT)
EU and UK negotiators’ latest attempt to unlock deal Brexit negotiators are exploring the idea of  review clauses 
to break the deadlock in EU-UK trade talks, with the possibility that parts of the deal could be revisited several years 
after they take effect. We have all the upcoming deadlines in our  Brexit timeline. (FT)
Do you expect Brexit to affect you personally or professionally? Tell us how at . 
The day ahead
Retail earnings Fashion retailers Gap and Abercrombie & Fitch  report results as well as department store chain 
Nordstrom and electronics seller Best Buy ahead of  Black Friday, which will look very different this year. Discounter 
Dollar Tree also releases earnings. (FT, Bloomberg)
Energy news Italian energy group Enel will unveil a  strategy on Tuesday to speed up the reduction of its carbon 
footprint. Russia’s Lukoil publishes its third-quarter results. (FT)
What else we’re reading
America’s biggest health project The smooth functioning of the supply chain is vital if the US is to ensure trust in 
a mass Covid-19 immunisation programme. Can Joe Biden  step up to the challenge? His reputation as president 
will probably rest on it. 
US democracy could emerge stronger Brad Raffensperger, Georgia’s Republican secretary of state,  represents 
proof that American government institutions are still alive and functioning, writes US managing editor Peter Spiegel. 
Patti Waldmeir says Americans are  lamenting a holiday this year that mostly won’t happen. (FT)
High-income countries have common problems Japanification should be used as shorthand for failure to 
respond adequately to financial fragility, and being too timid with macroeconomic stimulus. The term certainly fits 
the Japan of the 1990s, and for that matter, the eurozone of 2010s,  writes Adam Posen, in the latest in our  
lessons from Japan series. (FT) 
Corruption is rotting Europe Focusing exclusively on Hungary and Poland’s resistance to the EU over rule of law 
underplays the scope of the EU’s problems,  writes Gideon Rachman. The conflict is creating fissures among the 
bloc. Ludovic Orban, Romania’s prime minister, has  chastised the two nations for blocking the EU’s Covid-19 
recovery budget. (FT)
Edward Luce reviews ‘A Promised Land’ The former US president’s limpid memoir is a blast until he reaches the 
White House,  writes Ed Luce. It is hard to shake the feeling that Obama preferred the thrill of the journey to the 
destination. And who can blame him? His ride to the top was a blast. (FT)
Spain’s language wars The retreat of Spanish as a medium of instruction has been seen as an  insidious threat to 
the state and has highlighted the gulf between the minority government — which owes its hold on power to Catalan 
and Basque nationalists — and the opposition. (FT)
London lockdown tips from readers Last week,  FT staff shared their London discoveries that helped get them 
through the capital city’s lockdown. This week  readers picked their favourite places to eat, exercise and be 
entertained. (FT)
Podcast of the day 
Moving in together How can cohabiting couples structure a financial arrangement in a way that will be fair to both 
of them if they later split up?  Claer Barrett delves deeper with Michael Gouriet, a partner in a family law team, and 
Angela Marson, a chartered financial planner. (FT)
FirstFT: Today’s top stories
Illustration of the day 
Banx: Three weeks on from losing US election,  Trump still claims he won
Load-Date: November 24, 2020
End of Document
Airlines offer passengers health passes to steer out of Covid crisis
Airlines offer passengers health passes to steer out of Covid crisis
 
FT.com
November 24, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 514 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Five global airlines are to start offering passengers use of a digital health pass to certify they are Covid-free before 
travel, as the sector seeks to navigate its way out of a historic collapse in passenger demand. 
United Airlines, Lufthansa, Virgin Atlantic, Swiss International Air Lines and JetBlue will begin rolling out the so-
called CommonPass to passengers on some flights from December. 
The project, developed by non-profit group The Commons Project and backed by the World Economic Forum, uses 
a digital certificate downloaded to a mobile phone to show a passenger has tested negative for Covid-19. Users can 
then use the certificate as proof of a negative test if the country they are visiting requires one. The airlines are not 
making the CommonPass mandatory, but in time it will also be used to provide proof of vaccination.
Passengers crossing most international borders currently face lengthy quarantine periods upon arrival but several 
countries including the UK are moving towards  using testing to shorten and potentially eliminate the need for self-
isolation. 
“Reliable testing, combined with digital health passes, is another way to restore customer confidence and safely 
restore air travel,” said Joanna Geraghty, JetBlue president.
Paul Meyer, chief executive of The Commons Project, said he was also in discussions with cruise lines, shipping 
companies and hotel chains about how they might use health passes in their businesses. 
Airlines offer passengers health passes to steer out of Covid crisis
Airline industry group Iata is also working on a digital health pass alongside British Airways owner IAG, with a 
launch expected in the first quarter of next year. 
On Tuesday Iata warned that global airlines faced combined losses of $118.5bn this year, deeper than the $84.3bn 
forecast in June, and $39bn next year. Passenger numbers are forecast to fall 60 per cent on last year to 1.3bn. 
“We need to get borders safely reopened without quarantine so that people will fly again,” said Alexandre de Juniac, 
Iata chief executive. “And with airlines expected to bleed cash at least until the fourth quarter of 2021 there is no 
time to lose.”
Qantas on Monday said that once a vaccine was widely available it expected to deny boarding to any passenger 
travelling on an international flight who had not had the jab.
No major airline has said it will follow the Australian carrier’s lead, with easyJet and Ryanair both telling the 
Financial Times they do not expect to require vaccinations on their flights. 
“Under the EU system of free movement, we believe quarantine restrictions will be removed in spring 2021 once 
effective vaccines become available to protect high-risk groups from Covid-19,” Ryanair said. 
Airports Council International, the global airports body, said on Tuesday that it also supported CommonPass. Luis 
Felipe de Oliveira, its director-general, said “co-operation and consistency between all players in the aviation 
industry” would be essential to the resumption of mass travel. 
“CommonPass will help to foster this consistent approach, especially as it will include more than just the aviation 
industry,” he added.
Load-Date: November 24, 2020
End of Document
Willie Walsh set to be appointed head of Iata
Willie Walsh set to be appointed head of Iata
 
FT.com
November 23, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 384 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Willie Walsh is to become the next head of the International Air Transport Association, a position that will involve 
the former British Airways chief executive leading the industry’s response to the pandemic. 
Mr Walsh will be proposed as the next director-general at Iata’s annual meeting on Tuesday, and is expected to 
take over from Alexandre de Juniac in April next year, the group said. 
Iata has led the global airline industry’s reaction to coronavirus, including lobbying governments for financial support 
in the early stages. 
More recently it has called for the introduction of a co-ordinated global testing regime to lift the blanket quarantine 
bans that have stifled the industry.
Mr Walsh stepped down as chief executive of BA owner International Airlines Group after 15 years in September.
Nicknamed ‘slasher Walsh’ for his tough stance in two decades of labour negotiations, the former pilot gained huge 
respect from within the industry for his modernisation drive at IAG, which became one of Europe’s most profitable 
airline groups following the merger in 2011 of British Airways and Iberia that he masterminded.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, told the Financial Times when the former pilot left  in September this 
year that “all his competitors” would be saying “thank God he is retiring — now please don’t come back”.
But Mr Walsh’s relentless focus on costs led to clashes with customers, staff and politicians. 
Willie Walsh set to be appointed head of Iata
A decision to impose major job cuts on British Airways this year came under particular scrutiny, with some MPs 
calling for the airline to be stripped of its valuable UK airport slots. 
His successor, Luis Gallego, launched an overhaul of the top jobs at IAG weeks after Mr Walsh left the company, 
including installing a new boss at British Airways. 
Mr Walsh will take the helm at Iata about a year after the rapid spread of Covid-19 sent the aviation industry into an 
unprecedented crisis. 
Airlines around the world are on course to lose about $80bn this year, but the prospect of a vaccine means the 
Irishman could become the public face of the industry’s recovery. 
“The building blocks for an industry recovery are in place,” Mr de Juniac said.
Since leaving IAG, Mr Walsh has also  been hired by Dublin-based travel technology group CarTrawler as its 
deputy chairman. 
Load-Date: November 24, 2020
End of Document
Norwegian Air Shuttle files for protection from creditors
Norwegian Air Shuttle files for protection from creditors
 
FT.com
November 18, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 450 words
Byline: Richard Milne in Oslo
Body
Norwegian Air Shuttle is filing for protection from creditors under the Irish equivalent of Chapter 11, as the 
pioneering low-cost airline becomes the aviation industry’s largest casualty of the pandemic. 
Norwegian said late on Wednesday that two of its main subsidiaries would file for examinership in Ireland, a 
reorganisation process akin to filing for Chapter 11 in the US. 
The airline said it would use the reorganisation to cut its vast debt pile, offload aircraft, and raise new capital in a 
process expected to take up to five months. 
“Seeking protection to reorganise under Irish law is a decision that we have taken to secure the future of Norwegian 
for the benefit of our employees, customers and investors,” said Jacob Schram, Norwegian’s chief executive.
“Our aim is to find solutions with our stakeholders that will allow us to emerge as a financially stronger and secure 
airline.”
Norwegian’s fate was sealed last week when Norway’s centre-right government refused to give it a second bailout 
this year. Ministers in Oslo said they did not think it was a “sound use” of taxpayers’ money to prop up the low-cost 
airline that entered the crisis as one of the most vulnerable carriers due to a debt-fuelled rapid expansion into long-
haul flights.
Norwegian Air Shuttle files for protection from creditors
Founded in 1992 by an ex-fighter pilot, Bjorn Kjos, Norwegian turned into a rival of Ryanair and easyJet in the past 
two decades as it expanded from its Nordic base into low-cost travel in Europe and then flights to the US and Asia 
as well.
Lars-Daniel Westby, an analyst at SpareBank 1 Markets in Norway, who last week  told the Financial Times 
Norwegian was likely to file for bankruptcy in Ireland or the US, has said it could split into a profitable short-haul 
European operation and a lossmaking long-haul business.
Norwegian said it would try to continue operating as normal with its current route network, which is severely limited 
by Covid-19 to a few domestic flights in Norway.
The airline said it believed it had enough cash to get through examinership, an Irish process that allows companies 
100 days of protection from creditors to put together a rescue plan, subject to High Court approval.
Mr Schram said: “Our intent is clear. We will emerge from this process as a more financially secure and competitive 
airline, with a new financial structure, a right-sized fleet and improved customer offering.”
Norwegian converted NKr18bn ($2bn) from debt to equity under an earlier government-backed rescue plan, but still 
had NKr48bn of debt at the end of September.
Arctic Aviation Assets, a Norwegian subsidiary based in Dublin, handles aircraft financing and ownership for the 
airline, making Ireland an obvious location for its reorganisation.
Load-Date: November 18, 2020
End of Document
EasyJet posts first loss in 25 years as boss urges more state support
EasyJet posts first loss in 25 years as boss urges more state support
 
FT.com
November 17, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 603 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
EasyJet has slumped to a £1.3bn annual loss, the first in its 25-year history, as the industry-wide aviation crisis 
shows few signs of easing. 
The low-cost airline on Tuesday said it expected to fly just a fifth of its normal schedule for the rest of this year, as it 
tried to keep losses to a minimum.
The airline’s shares fell 2 per cent to 758.80p by lunchtime in London, recovering from 5 per cent down in early 
morning trade.
With demand for flying expected to be low even over the traditionally busy Christmas period and recovery hopes 
delayed until next year at the earliest, EasyJet chief executive Johan Lundgren again called for more government 
support.
Mr Lundgren, who has repeatedly pressed for more government backing in the past few weeks, told the Financial 
Times he would welcome new state loans or the removal of air passenger duty to stimulate demand.
Although he stopped short of calling for direct cash injections into UK airlines, he noted that some continental 
carriers have received billions of euros in support. 
“I am concerned funds are being very unevenly distributed around the network to some of these airlines. We are 
having a constructive dialogue with the government,” he said. 
EasyJet posts first loss in 25 years as boss urges more state support
The company had announced earlier an extension to the repayment of a  £600m UK government rescue loan to 
manage its finances through the winter season. 
The airline will repay the loan in two stages in March and November, rather than in full in March.
The loss brings down the curtain on a grim earnings season for Europe’s largest airlines. A second wave of 
infections and new travel restrictions have extinguished hopes of a swift recovery following nine months of crisis.
British Airways owner IAG reported a loss of €5.95bn in the first nine months of its financial year, while Ryanair 
suffered a loss of €197m over the traditionally highly profitable summer season.
Still, Mr Lundgren said two positive vaccine test results in 10 days had offered the industry some “welcome news” 
and that bookings have risen about 50 per cent since the news first broke.
“I think there are reasons to be positive,” he said, pointing to a “pent up demand” for flying. 
EasyJet’s shares have risen more than 40 per cent since  Pfizer and  Moderna announced successful test results 
for their coronavirus vaccines, although they have still lost nearly half their value since the start of the year. 
The airline, which had already warned it was facing its first full-year loss, reported a £1.27bn pre-tax loss for the 
year to September, including £438m of non-recurring costs such as ineffective fuel hedges and costs related to a 
broad restructuring. The airline reported a profit of £430m in 2019.
With carriers largely in survival mode, analysts and investors across the industry are focused on how 
quickly companies are using up their available cash. 
EasyJet burnt through £651m in cash during the fourth quarter, down from £774m in the previous three months. 
Passenger numbers halved to 48.1m in the year to September and revenue fell 52 per cent to slightly more than 
£3bn.
The company has built up reserves of £3.1bn to last it through the crisis, including the Bank of England loan and 
selling off a chunk of its fleet that it has leased back.
“EasyJet has amassed a pile of cash, but it may yet have to use it to reach the point of travel recovery. It has not 
yet demonstrated how or under what traffic scenarios its liquidity resources will be sufficient to see it through the 
crisis,” said Bernstein analyst Daniel Roeska. 
Mr Roeska said a new equity raise was the most likely path forward if the carrier needed more liquidity. 
Load-Date: November 17, 2020
End of Document
It’s time we had a better way to judge where to put our money
It’s time we had a better way to judge where to put our money
 
FT.com
November 15, 2020 Sunday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 674 words
Byline: Pilita Clark
Body
When news of a Covid-19 vaccine breakthrough came last week, I did something I had not done for months. I went 
online to see how much it would cost to get from London to almost anywhere else.
I soon had the answer. EasyJet could fly me to the south of Spain for £173. British Airways would do it for £163 
from Heathrow, and Ryanair for £137 from Stansted.
So far, so normal. From holidays to haircuts, we take it for granted we can compare all sorts of options and prices at 
a click.
Yet when it comes to the much grander sums we put towards retirement, or serious investments, the picture is 
depressingly different. 
Take my latest pension fund statement. It says my money has gone to a blended multi-asset fund here, a blended 
global equity fund there, and all are doing well against some not entirely obvious market benchmarks.
For someone like me, who would like to know how climate-friendly those investments are, and how their returns 
measure up against rivals, it’s next to useless. If only one could compare such things as easily as, say, airline flights 
on Kayak or hotels on TripAdvisor.
From this week, that prospect has moved a step closer, thanks to a Swiss banker named Reto Ringger.
It’s time we had a better way to judge where to put our money
You almost certainly have not heard of him, nor SAM, one of the world’s first sustainable asset management firms, 
which he founded in Zurich  in 1995. But you may have heard of the pioneering Dow Jones Sustainability index, 
which he  persuaded Dow Jones to launch with SAM in 1999.
Today Mr Ringger runs Globalance, a private bank that has just rolled out what he calls a “Google Earth for 
investors” — and anyone else who wants to see how green a company really is.
It’s an online site called Globalance World that lets you compare the financial performance of thousands of 
companies, as well as their impact on society, the environment and other areas. Analysis of companies, but not 
entire portfolios, will be free of charge.
When I had a preview the other week, it showed Amazon had a pleasing double-digit financial performance for the 
year to date, but a slightly high climate warming potential. 
Its warming score was still better than that of Apple and Royal Dutch Shell. But all paled before Zoom, which had a 
reasonably low warming potential. 
That puts the video conferencing business in a select club: Mr Ringger says only 5 per cent of the companies on 
the site have a warming score near its level.
He is braced for quibbles with the data and methodology he uses, some of which was developed by the MSCI ESG 
Research group. Some criticism may turn out to be justified. The  lack of uniform official standards for measuring 
climate risk muddies these waters. But the transparency he is trying to achieve is laudable and overdue. It is also in 
step with efforts EU regulators are making to steer money towards the greener ventures needed to meet their 
emissions-cutting goals. That requires more corporate transparency, says Richard Mattison, chief executive of S&P 
Global Trucost, an environmental data provider.
An ex-  adviser on the EU’s green finance strategy, he says that until now, companies have only had to disclose 
what they deem to be material, though they sometimes don’t know what is material themselves.
He remembers a drinks company in Brazil that once told him water was not material for them because it cost so 
little — just 0.01 cents per cubic metre — that they constantly hosed down their lorries to keep the company logos 
shiny. But when a severe drought struck in 2014, the price jumped to $10 per cubic metre. “That made it 
unprofitable for them to do anything,” he told me recently. 
The transparency on Mr Ringger’s Globalance World site may be bracing. It shows that Germany’s Daimler car 
company, which was slower to embrace electric vehicles than some rivals, has a much higher warming score than 
BMW and Toyota. Does he think Daimler will be unhappy? “Yes, that’s possible,” he says. “But look, this is reality. 
That’s what the best available models indicate and I think we should show it to investors.”
Twitter:  @pilitaclark
Load-Date: November 16, 2020
End of Document
City Bulletin: Stamp duty holiday boosts Taylor Wimpey
City Bulletin: Stamp duty holiday boosts Taylor Wimpey
 
FT.com
November 9, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 870 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Good morning, I am Bryce Elder and will be writing City Bulletin while Cat is on maternity leave. Let’s get on with 
the show.
Taylor Wimpey is benefiting from surging demand on the back of the UK’s temporary  stamp duty holiday, which is 
due to run out at the end of March. Britain’s second-biggest housebuilder said in a trading update that it expects 
full-year results at the top end of market consensus, and that 2021 operating profit will be “materially above the top 
end of the current consensus range”.
Pete Redfern, Taylor Wimpey chief executive, said the company had “made good progress in the second half of the 
year to date, maintaining a robust sales rate and building a strong forward order book,” adding: “The trading 
backdrop remains resilient and the quick recovery of the housing market is testament to the underlying strength of 
demand and supportive lending backdrop.” 
The company said that on many sites it was selling on Monday for completions in the second quarter 2021 and 
beyond, and as construction catches up with sales over the next few months it expects rates to improve further.
The current company-compiled consensus forecasts an operating profit for 2020 of between £242m and £292m and 
an operating profit for 2021 of £359m to £626m.
Briefly
City Bulletin: Stamp duty holiday boosts Taylor Wimpey
Estate agent Countrywide says it has received an indicative approach from rival Connells Limited at a price of 
250p per share in cash. The offer is at a premium of more than 72 per cent versus Friday’s close and gives 
Countrywide an equity value of about £82m.
Bus operator FirstGroup, which warned earlier this year that it  might not continue as a going concern, said lenders 
had agreed to amend covenants on its next two credit checks due in March and September 2021. The company 
reiterated  a September trading update and said its balance sheet is “now robust in a range of downside scenarios”, 
but added that “as a matter of prudence” now was “an appropriate point to secure enhanced financial flexibility”. 
There was no mention of FirstGroup’s plans  announced in March to sell its North American operations.
Dignity, the funeral director, says underlying profit for the year to date has fallen 8 per cent in spite of a 15 per cent 
increase in deaths. A search for a new chief executive to replace interim CEO Clive Whiley has been deferred while 
the company conducts a strategic review and waits for the conclusion of a Competition and Markets Authority 
investigation into the sector due July 2021.
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary says the UK government should not bail out airlines. Mr O’Leary  told The Mail on 
Sunday that airlines should “rely on their own cash reserves and their shareholders to get through the pandemic” 
and said Ryanair “doesn’t believe there should be any further financial support, other than the furlough scheme, for 
airlines and airports.” 
Also out on Monday are updates from TP Icap, Ultra Electronics, On The Beach and Calisen.
Beyond the Square Mile 
Deutsche Bank rejected a request by the European Central Bank  to suspend key parts of its leveraged finance 
operations over concerns that Germany’s largest lender was not properly monitoring risk in that area. The 
intervention was triggered by a routine audit of what has long been seen as one of Deutsche’s most successful 
business areas. It increases the pressure on Deutsche chief executive Christian Sewing, who has repeatedly 
pledged to tighten internal controls and put an end to its long history of compliance and governance shortcomings. 
Private equity firms  have been circling US sports outfitter Reebok, according to people familiar with the matter, as 
the brand’s corporate parent Adidas looks to untether itself from the long-term, awkward relationship with its 
subsidiary.  Permira and Triton have considered a move for Reebok, the people said, though they warned that any 
plans were in the early, exploratory stages. The private equity groups’ interest in Reebok comes as Adidas 
continues to evaluate its options for the brand, which the German sportswear maker acquired more than a decade 
ago but which has since failed to boost the group’s overall sales.
Two people  travelled in a superfast vacuum tube for the first time on Sunday afternoon, in a small but significant 
step for hyperloop technology which backers hope will revolutionise how we travel later this century.  Virgin 
Hyperloop, one of the private companies leading the development, said the two passengers travelled in the 500m 
Nevada test tube at around 100mph. Backers of the technology are hoping eventually to propel small pods along 
hyperloops’ low-pressure tubes at speeds of up to 670mph. 
Essential comment before you go
Gina Miller There is no point in being  pessimistic about Brexit. The UK must relearn the lessons learnt over 
centuries as a successful, outward-looking mercantilist power, and apply them to the new conditions and challenges 
that stretch out before us.
Patrick Jenkins
Ant Group’s transition from a tech group that processed payments into a giant credit platform, meant it had become  
a potential systemic risk. For regulators, curbing that risk is perfectly sensible.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here. 
City Bulletin: Stamp duty holiday boosts Taylor Wimpey
Load-Date: November 9, 2020
End of Document
Travel agent boss blasts airlines over refunds
Travel agent boss blasts airlines over refunds
 
FT.com
November 9, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 548 words
Byline: Alice Hancock and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Marco Corradino, chief executive of lastminute.com, has renewed his attack on the airlines for withholding refunds 
for cancelled flights during the coronavirus crisis.
The travel agent boss told the Financial Times the way the airlines had acted was “totally illegal”, adding that 
regulators had failed to address the problem because the carriers were in effect too big to fail. 
“It’s like the banks in 2008. If you don’t save the airlines, the whole industry will suffer,” said the head of one of 
Europe’s leading online travel agencies. 
Mr Corradino, who urged airlines to issue refunds faster in June, said many were still not paying up or delaying for 
months, despite legal obligations to reimburse within seven days of a flight cancellation. This forces agents to 
refund passengers from their own resources.
The consumer watchdog Which? estimates more than £1bn worth of refunds for holidays were still owed to 
customers in the UK, with about 9.4m people having had package holidays cancelled.
But airlines insist they have paid billions of pounds in claims, despite an unprecedented backlog and an industry-
wide cash crunch following a collapse in passenger numbers. 
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, called online travel websites “overcharging scam artists” as they added 
commission to the face value of the carrier’s flights.
Travel agent boss blasts airlines over refunds
The low-cost airline said it had not paid back hundreds of thousands of customers who booked using websites such 
as lastminute.com and On The Beach because it does not have their personal details including card numbers, 
which are typically processed by the agents. 
The company also said that in some cases it had paid out refunds to travel agents that had not been passed back 
to the customers.
“We refuse to pay back online travel agents who then sit on the money, use it for cash flow and don’t refund 
passengers,” said Dara Brady, Ryanair’s director of marketing and digital, suggesting that customers instead 
directly contact the airline to request a refund.
Ryanair has processed €1.5bn of refunds and vouchers and says it has repaid everyone it has the correct details 
for. British Airways has processed 2.5m refund requests and issued 1.8m vouchers, and Virgin Atlantic has repaid 
£500m to customers. 
But the Association of British Travel Agents said that some travel agents had been forced to take out loans or 
reimburse travellers out of their own pocket.
“The whole Covid pandemic exposed a monumental flaw in the system,” said Craig Ashford, marketing director of 
travel agency TravelUp, who is spearheading a lobbying effort to force airlines to hold customer money in a trust 
account until a flight takes place.
“We were up in the region of 55,000 bookings that were cancelled overnight and we don’t have that level of money 
to refund all those customers,” he said.
Richard Slater, owner of Macclesfield travel agent Henbury Travel, cited the plight of a business traveller whose 
£5,000 ticket for a cancelled flight in April had only been refunded two weeks ago.
Expedia, the online travel agent, said that the airlines determine the timing of refunds as they hold the customers’ 
money.
Thomas Cook, which relaunched as an online travel agent in September, said it had only chosen to work with 
airlines that were “being flexible” with bookings.
Load-Date: November 9, 2020
End of Document
Pfizer and BioNTech ’s Covid-19 vaccine found to be 90% effective
Pfizer and BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccine found to be 90% effective
 
FT.com
November 9, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 772 words
Byline: Joe Miller in Frankfurt, Hannah Kuchler in New York, Donato Paolo Mancini and Clive Cookson in London
Body
A Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech has been found to be more than 90 per 
cent effective, in a breakthrough that could make the shot available for use by the end of the year if drug authorities 
give it the green light.
The finding was the result of the first independent analysis of any Covid-19 vaccine in phase 3 trials — the final 
stage before commercial licensing. Out of the 43,000 trial participants, the small number who were infected enabled 
the independent evaluators to calculate the effectiveness after two doses.
“To me, this is the best possible outcome,”  Ugur Sahin, co-founder and chief executive of BioNTech told the 
Financial Times, while Pfizer boss Albert Bourla said it was “a great day for science and humanity”.
The drug is expected to be submitted to authorities for emergency approval in the third week of November, ahead 
of other vaccine developers. Former vaccine frontrunner Moderna does not expect to have the trial data required to 
go for approval until November 25, while AstraZeneca’s partnership with the University of Oxford expects results by 
the end of this year. 
Pfizer shares jumped almost 15 per cent in pre-market trading in New York, while those of Nasdaq-listed BioNTech 
rose 25 per cent.
Pfizer and BioNTech ’s Covid-19 vaccine found to be 90% effective
The Pfizer results far exceed  the US Food and Drug Administration’s criteria for approving a Covid-19 vaccine, 
which mandates an efficacy of at least 50 per cent in placebo-controlled trials. No vaccine is 100 per cent effective, 
according to the World Health Organization. 
Pfizer and BioNTech said that up to 50m doses of the vaccine — which would be the first vaccine to use novel 
mRNA technology — could be manufactured this year, and a further 1.3bn doses produced in 2021. 
Global equity markets  rallied sharply after Pfizer's announcement, led by travel and leisure companies that have 
been hit particularly hard by the coronavirus crisis. 
British Airways parent IAG soared by a third in London, while Air France-KLM jumped 30 per cent in Paris and 
Ryanair climbed 16 per cent in Dublin. Oil prices, which have been knocked by the pandemic's effects on demand 
for fuel, also added to earlier gains. Brent crude, the international standard, was up 8.5 per cent at $42.83 in recent 
trading. 
Anthony Fauci, the head of the US National Institutes of Health, described 90 per cent effectiveness as “just 
extraordinary”, adding that the results were a positive sign for many vaccines under development. 
But US president-elect Joe Biden urged caution, stressing that the end of the battle against Covid-19 was “still 
months away”. 
“This news follows a previously announced timeline by industry officials that forecast vaccine approval by late 
November. Even if that is achieved, and some Americans are vaccinated later this year, it will be many more 
months before there is widespread vaccination in this country,” Mr Biden said in a statement.
The US has  secured orders for 100m doses of the shot, with an option to acquire another 500m, while the UK has 
an agreement to procure  30m doses. A deal for the supply of 200m doses to the EU is under negotiation.
Mr Sahin said BioNTech and Pfizer would “use a fair approach” when it came to distributing the first doses of the 
vaccine, adding that they would prioritise deliveries to countries where it had been approved for use. 
Ian Jones, professor of virology at the University of Reading, said the BioNTech vaccine had always looked like “the 
most bang-per-buck”. 
“The questions around its use were about the ability to manufacture at scale and the possible toxicity associated 
with a directly injected RNA product,” he said. “The trial data show excellent results on both of those areas, really 
impressive protection and no reported adverse events.”
Brendan Wren, professor of vaccinology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said 90 per cent 
efficacy was “excellent for a new vaccine”, while adding a note of caution. “It is a case of ‘so far so good’ but more 
confirmatory safety and efficacy studies are required.” 
BioNTech’s Mr Sahin said he expected the vaccine’s immune response to last for “at least one year”, adding that 
the vaccine-induced antibodies were shown to block about 20 different mutations of Sars-Cov-2. “There's a very low 
likelihood that a [mutation of] the virus can overcome the immune response,” he predicted.
This article has been amended to clarify how the effectiveness of the vaccine was calculated
Letter in response to this article:
  Job retention must be the aim in Brexit countdown / From Neil Carberry, Chief Executive, Recruitment & 
Employment Confederation, London SE1, UK
Load-Date: November 13, 2020
Pfizer and BioNTech ’s Covid-19 vaccine found to be 90% effective
End of Document
Wizz Air sticks to bold expansion plans despite air travel collapse
Wizz Air sticks to bold expansion plans despite air travel collapse
 
FT.com
November 5, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 424 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and George Steer
Body
Wizz Air is sticking to its ambitious expansion plans despite the collapse in air travel as the bullish low-cost carrier 
positions itself for a recovery in passenger numbers next year. 
The Hungarian airline’s chief executive Jozsef Varadi said that while he was preparing for a “difficult” winter 
dominated by travel restrictions, he expected demand for flying to return by the beginning of April. 
“Coming out of winter and going into spring we will start seeing some improvements,” he told the Financial Times. 
“We will see demand coming up quickly and strongly.”
Wizz has announced plans to open 13 bases including at London Gatwick and Doncaster Sheffield airports since 
April, betting that it can exploit the crisis to raise its footprint across European airports while rivals retrench. 
“Many of the existing carriers will have a hard task to revamp their operations, it will take them ages and some will 
never get there,” Mr Varadi said. 
Shares in Wizz rose 2 per cent to £35.52 by early afternoon on Thursday, and have lost just 8 per cent this year, 
significantly outperforming rival carriers such as easyJet and British Airways owner International Airlines Group. 
The airline is pushing for European aviation authorities to reinstate “use it or lose it” slot rules that strip airlines from 
lucrative landing rights if they do not fly their planned schedules. The rules have been suspended until next year to 
stop carriers having to operate empty flights to defend their slots, in a move welcomed by the majority of the airline 
industry.
Wizz Air sticks to bold expansion plans despite air travel collapse
But Mr Varadi said the suspension had stopped him from a “significant investment” in London’s struggling Gatwick. 
Given free rein to hoover up slots, he said Wizz could eventually operate 15 to 20 aircraft from the airport, up from 
just one currently. 
Despite the bullish tone, Wizz is not immune to the struggles facing the industry. The carrier has had to slash its 
flight plans for the winter like its competitors, and sank to a €237m loss before tax for the six months to September 
30. The company made €385m in profit for the same period last year.
Analysts expect Wizz to fly only between 25 per cent and 30 per cent of its planned schedule through the winter, 
compared with 40 per cent for Ryanair and 25 per cent for easyJet.
Revenue at the low-cost airline fell 71 per cent in the first half to €471m, though the group said it had €1.6bn of 
cash in reserve.
“This provides Wizz with more than enough liquidity to trade through a bleak winter,” said Mark Simpson. an 
aviation analyst at Goodbody.
Load-Date: November 5, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair : well grounded
Ryanair: well grounded
 
FT.com
November 2, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 321 words
Body
Never mind getting planes into the sky, some airline executives must wonder how to stay standing. Given its strong 
balance sheet, Ryanair captain Michael O’Leary will worry less than most. His airline has the financial strength to 
last through the latest upswing of Covid-19 cases. A new lockdown in England will not help — the UK is the source 
of a fifth of Ryanair’s business. Yet its share price rallied on Monday even after a rare  second-quarter loss.
A loss during this typically cash flow rich period is rare. For Ryanair, it is the first since 2008. But, post-tax, red ink 
was in fact less than half analyst expectations at minus €22.6m. Average monthly cash burn in the first half ran at 
about €193m. Meanwhile, cash control and  timely financing, via the equity and bond markets, meant the airliner 
finished the first half of the year to September with €4.5bn in pure cash. Yes, net debt is up but reserves more than 
cover the €1.5bn in debt due next year — and perhaps a year of cash burn. 
Not that Mr O’Leary offered forecasts other than passenger numbers. The company claimed that the airline would 
serve 38m passengers this fiscal year. That would mean carrying 21m passengers in the second half, almost a 
quarter up on the first half. Given there are more EU travel restrictions now than at any time during the pandemic, 
this is questionable. 
Mr O’Leary is not the only executive shy on financial forecasting. Even in early November, it is hard to find a major 
regional travel group willing to provide an outlook to the end of 2020, notes Jarrod Castle at UBS. 
Forget about high-flying valuations, staying financially grounded matters most. Ryanair aims to hold on to staff, 
admittedly on reduced pay. It has the wherewithal to last out this crisis. And it can afford to invest. It still wants its 
delayed order of more fuel-efficient Boeing 737 Max jets. No wonder rival stock prices trail in Ryanair’s slipstream.
Ryanair : well grounded
Load-Date: November 2, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair chief criticises UK government as airline suffers losses
Ryanair chief criticises UK government as airline suffers losses
 
FT.com
November 2, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 668 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary condemned Boris Johnson’s “mismanagement” of the coronavirus crisis on 
Monday as the airline recorded losses over the lucrative summer months.
The Irish airline’s boss also warned of a winter of deepening losses as governments roll out travel restrictions to 
contain the spread of the disease. 
The low-cost airline reported a net loss of €197m for the six months to the end of September, excluding exceptional 
items, after passenger numbers fell 80 per cent to just over 17m. 
Charlie Cornish, chief executive of Manchester Airports Group, which owns London Stansted and East Midlands 
airports, also criticised the government over the new lockdown in England that comes into force this week and bans 
leisure travel.
The government moves hit airline and aviation share prices in early trade, with British Airways’ owner IAG and 
Rolls-Royce two of the biggest fallers on the FTSE 100, although their shares recovered later in the London 
morning. 
Ryanair’s shares rose 3 per cent to €12.34 by mid-morning in London.
The European summer is normally highly profitable for Ryanair, which recorded a profit of €1.15bn in the 
corresponding period in 2019. 
Ryanair chief criticises UK government as airline suffers losses
The European airline industry has been savaged by the pandemic. IAG suffered an operating loss of €5.95bn in the 
first nine months of the year, while easyJet has lost more than £800m in 2020.
Ryanair expects to record higher losses in the second half of its financial year, which began on October 1, following 
travel curbs in place across many of its key markets including the UK.
Mr O’Leary said on the BBC the UK’s lockdown in the spring “achieved nothing”. He expects the second to achieve 
“even less” when it comes into force from Thursday morning. 
“It is just a cover up for political mismanagement, which the Johnson government continues to deliver.” 
Ryanair has no plans to cancel any UK flights despite the government restrictions banning leisure travel, which 
means customers will not receive refunds if they choose not to fly, Mr O’Leary added. 
Mr Cornish said: “We are reacting to news that leaves many in our industry facing a very bleak future.”
He added he found out about the restrictions on social media, and that the government had given no warning to the 
industry. 
“Twitter is not the place where you want to find out that the government is effectively shutting down the business 
you run.” 
Although sharply critical of government policy, Mr O’Leary was more relaxed over the impact on his business given 
that November is typically the airline’s quietest month of the year and lossmaking, even in normal times. 
“If there was a very good month to have a lockdown for the airline industry, it would be November.” 
Like all other large European airlines, Ryanair has been forced to slash its flight schedules after anticipated demand 
for flying failed to materialise through the autumn. 
Although the airline stuck with its forecast to carry 38m passengers this financial year, it warned it could revise 
down this figure if European governments continued to implement travel curbs. 
Revenue fell 78 per cent to €1.18bn, but analysts said Ryanair’s strong balance sheet should help it weather the 
crisis. It had €4.5bn in cash by the end of September. 
Its first-half net loss did not include a €214m charge on fuel and currency hedges. Including exceptional items, the 
airline lost €432m in the six months.
The carrier is confident it can emerge from the crisis in a stronger position, given its low-cost base and the huge 
retrenchments from some of its competitors. 
Mr O’Leary said he expected Norwegian, once a growing low-cost threat to his business, to end up “a small and 
largely irrelevant Norwegian domestic airline”. 
Ryanair added it expected deliveries of its long-delayed Boeing 737 Max jets to begin in the first few months of next 
year, if regulators certified the aircraft.
The jets should significantly boost the airline’s efficiency because they carried more passengers and used less fuel 
than older planes. 
Load-Date: November 2, 2020
End of Document
City Bulletin: Business begins to count the cost of new national lockdown
City Bulletin: Business begins to count the cost of new national lockdown
 
FT.com
November 2, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 820 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Here we go again. After Saturday’s announcement that England will go into a new lockdown from Thursday 
onwards, this Monday morning companies are starting to spell out what that will mean for them. 
Associated British Foods, which owns Primark, said that 57 per cent of the cheap fashion chain’s stores will be 
shut as of Thursday (assuming parliament approves the UK government’s shutdown plans). Almost 20 per cent are 
shut already because of closures in France, Ireland and Catalonia, among other regions. It will lose around £375m 
in sales and £37m in ebitda during the announced periods of closure; during the  first lockdowns it lost around 
£650m a month in sales foregone. 
Insurer Hiscox estimates it could have another $30m to $40m potential exposure linked to event cancellation if 
restrictions on travel and big group gatherings extend into next year. Previously it estimated its exposure for Covid 
claims at $387m net of reinsurance, including claims for business interruption insurance. 
And bookie GVC, which owns Ladbrokes Coral, reckons lockdowns (as announced) will hit ebitda by £37m as 
betting shops are forced to shut. If all retail outlets are required to be closed for a whole month, that would knock 
£43m off ebitda, GVC estimated. 
Unsurprisingly business leaders are calling for  more government support — but Boris Johnson is set to skip the 
CBI annual conference on Monday, a rare non-appearance by a sitting prime minister. Business secretary Alok 
Sharma is due to attend the employers event in his stead. 
City Bulletin: Business begins to count the cost of new national lockdown
Briefly
Ryanair published its half-year results, showing a pre-tax loss of €432m. The summer season is usually Ryanair’s 
most profitable period; in the first half of last year the low cost carrier reported a €1.26bn profit. The figures were 
weighed down by a €214m charge for ineffective hedges; excluding exceptional items, the airline reported a €197m 
loss. Losses are set to increase in the second half of the year. But the airline made no further cuts to its winter 
schedule: boss Michael O’Leary said it was already running only a skeleton service for November and December. 
Ocado meanwhile has upgraded its ebitda guidance to more than £60m from more than £40m with just under a 
month of its fiscal year to go. The online grocery delivery group said demand had remained high. It has also 
announced acquisitions totalling $287m this Monday morning of two companies linked to robot picking tech (ie 
robotic arms) for use in its warehouses. 
Finally there is a half-year trading update from online estate agent Purplebricks. It expects to report adjusted 
ebitda “comfortably ahead” of consensus for the full year (though the consensus estimate is only £3.5m) after the 
recent rebound in the property market; but boss Vic Darvey warned it was too early to extrapolate trends from the 
first half out to the rest of the year as lockdown starts again. 
Beyond the Square Mile 
Huawei is working on plans for  a dedicated chip plant in Shanghai that would not use American technology. Two 
people briefed on the project said the plant would be run by a partner, Shanghai IC R&D Center, a chip research 
company backed by the Shanghai Municipal government. Industry experts said the project could help Huawei, 
which has no experience in fabricating chips, chart a path to long-term survival. Meanwhile, private equity firm 
Stonepeak Infrastructure Partners is buyingAstound Broadband, a network of US regional cable operators, in 
an $8.1bn deal. 
The New York Stock Exchange is on track to steal back the crown for US stock market listings from its rival 
Nasdaq after tapping into  the booming market for blank cheque companies. Companies have raised $66bn 
through listings on NYSE this year compared with $61bn on Nasdaq, with nearly two-thirds of the proceeds raised 
on NYSE coming from special purpose acquisition companies or Spacs.
America’s third-quarter earnings season is proving  less downbeat than Wall Street analysts had forecast, with 
companies broadly reporting a shallower rate of decline in profits and sales than had been expected. The total 
profits per share reported by companies listed on the blue-chip S&P 500 index have come in nearly a fifth higher 
than analysts predicted just several weeks ago, according to FactSet data, with 63 per cent of the companies on the 
index disclosing their figures so far.
Essential comment before you go
Jemima Kelly There comes a time in life when you realise that some of the friends you used to consider good 
friends aren’t actually your true friends. These are your party friends. And so it is with  fintechs. They grew up in the 
party years but have failed to prove themselves during this crisis.
Pilita Clark The US election is yet another sign of the exhausting example being set for the rest of us by older 
people, writes  a quinquagenarian.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
Load-Date: November 2, 2020
City Bulletin: Business begins to count the cost of new national lockdown
End of Document
EasyJet raises £300m in aircraft leaseback deal
EasyJet raises £300m in aircraft leaseback deal
 
FT.com
October 27, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 404 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
EasyJet has raised £300m through selling and leasing back part of its fleet as the low-cost carrier tries to shore up 
its finances.
The push for new cash comes after the airline carrier revealed earlier this month that its losses soared to more than 
£800m this year, the first in its 25-year history, and called for more government support for the aviation industry. 
The sale and leaseback of nine of its workhorse A320 aircraft will raise just over £306m, and is the second time the 
airline has sold off planes this year. 
EasyJet said it would continue to look for future funding opportunities, and that it had seen “high levels of demand” 
in the multibillion-dollar leasing market. The carrier still owns 152 aircraft, about 45 per cent of its fleet.  
A boom in aircraft financing helped support the airline industry’s rapid growth before the pandemic. As crisis has hit, 
lessors have  typically sought to do deals with stronger airlines including, easyJet, which offer a more secure rental 
stream.
Five of easyJet’s planes have been sold to lender and wealth manager Wilmington Trust for $191.1m (£146.5m), 
and will be leased back for an average of 117 months. A second deal with Ireland’s Sky High 112 Leasing 
Company, will generate $207.5m (£159m) in cash, with the aircraft leased for an average of 116 months.
EasyJet raises £300m in aircraft leaseback deal
Mark Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody, said the sale and leaseback deals announced on Tuesday “extend 
the period over which easyJet can survive” the crisis. He estimated they would lead to monthly leasing rates of 
$275,000 for the first five aircraft and $303,500 for the following four.
The terms are “not especially attractive”, but the extra cash “will outweigh that factor in the shorter term,” Mr 
Simpson said. 
The low-cost carrier has raised about £2.7bn to help see it through the crisis, including tapping UK government 
Covid relief programmes for £600m, a £400m share placement and a previous programme of aircraft sale and 
leasebacks that generated £600m. 
Like all of its rivals, easyJet has been forced to slash its winter flight schedules as a second wave of the virus 
extinguishes any hope of a recovery in air travel. Airline bosses are pinning their hopes on borders opening up 
through an airport testing programme.
Shares in easyJet were little changed on Tuesday morning. They have fallen about 60 per cent this year, far more 
than rivals Ryanair and Wizz Air that have lower cost bases. 
Load-Date: October 27, 2020
End of Document
EU takes step to ease jitters over dual listings after Brexit
EU takes step to ease jitters over dual listings after Brexit
 
FT.com
October 26, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 598 words
Byline: Philip Stafford in London and Jim Brunsden in Brussels
Body
The EU markets regulator has taken steps to partly assuage investor concerns about trading after Brexit by 
indicating EU investors will be able to trade sterling-quoted shares of European companies listed in London.
The European Securities and Markets Authority on Monday made the policy change because of  concerns among 
businesses and some EU governments that the bloc’s regulations could fragment the share market and cut 
European companies out of deep pools of capital in London.  
The Paris-based agency said that trading of EU shares on a UK exchange in pounds will be exempt from an EU 
rule, known as the share trading obligation, which determines which venues investors can use to trade.
That means EU investors will still be able to trade dual-listed companies like AstraZeneca, Relx, Tui, British Airways 
parent IAG and G4S in London as those companies are listed in sterling.
However, many Irish companies, like Ryanair, Kingspan and Bank of Ireland will remain vulnerable as they trade in 
euros. One industry lobbyist in Brussels said it was “the narrowest of accommodations”, adding that it “does not 
solve what Ireland needs”. Another described it as “pretty underwhelming”. 
Normally, EU investors can only buy and sell stocks in countries Brussels has deemed as having a regulatory and 
supervisory system as rigorous as the EU's own — a system known as “equivalence”.
EU takes step to ease jitters over dual listings after Brexit
London is the biggest share trading centre in Europe, handling more than a quarter of the €40bn daily market. 
Without  equivalence, some of that business will move to Amsterdam and Paris because EU-based institutions will 
be barred from trading in London.
Esma estimated the policy change announced on Monday accounted for less than 1 per cent of total EU trading. 
There were fewer than 50 companies trading in London with an EU identification code, known as an ISIN, it said.
So far the European Commission has given no indication as to whether a decision on equivalence will be 
forthcoming for the UK, and it has instead warned that a lack of clarity about the details of Britain’s future regulatory 
regime have made such assessments difficult. 
Banks, high-frequency traders and asset managers across Europe had been losing hope in recent weeks that 
London and Brussels would agree to keep the cross-border share trading market intact beyond January.  
The commission told the Financial Times last week that equivalence assessments “are challenging because they 
will have to be forward-looking, taking into account overall developments, including any intention by the UK to 
diverge from EU rules”. 
But the ambiguity has  worried EU national governments, which last month discussed enacting emergency 
legislation to stave off the threat to dual listed shares — prompting complaints from the commission that such a 
move would send a signal of weakness at a sensitive moment in the Brexit talks. It turned to Esma to come up with 
a solution.
Esma insisted on Monday it had done “the maximum possible” to minimise market disruption. However the agency 
warned that its UK counterpart, the Financial Conduct Authority, needed to make similar concessions with its own 
rules for the solution to work. 
The comments reflect the risk that traders could, in theory, be faced with conflicting EU and UK rules on dual-listed 
shares unless both sides grant the necessary regulatory permissions.
The FCA said it considered mutual equivalence the best solution for the market. “However, we note Esma’s latest 
interpretation of the scope of the EU [share trading obligation], and we will set out our approach in due course,” it 
said.
Load-Date: October 26, 2020
End of Document
Can corporate Europe catch the US ?
Can corporate Europe catch the US?
 
FT.com
October 23, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 584 words
Byline: Tom Braithwaite
Body
While New York and San Francisco hunkered down this summer, it was possible to fly from London to Lisbon and 
enjoy a holiday, largely untroubled by the virus. Then in September, as many American schools stayed shut, term 
started on time in most of Europe.
The sunnier period on the eastern side of the Atlantic seems to be reflected in corporate results. A quarter of the 
way into earnings season, profits from S&P 500 companies are down 14 per cent in aggregate, according to 
FactSet data. Meanwhile, third-quarter earnings for the first 150 companies in the Stoxx Europe 600 to report are 
20 per cent higher than in the same period last year. 
Beyond the headlines there is plenty of success. Robotic lawnmowers were a big hit for Sweden’s Husqvarna as 
shut-ins tended their gardens. Webcam sales rose 250 per cent at Swiss maker of computer gear Logitech as office 
refugees set up their home workstations. Swedish medical device maker Getinge delivered more of its advanced 
ventilators in the quarter than it used to do in a year. Dutch chip companies ASML and BE Semiconductor reported 
earnings growth of more than 70 per cent. In brute force of dollars earned, meanwhile, it was an old stager of 
finance, Switzerland’s UBS, that produced the biggest contribution, doubling profits to $2.2bn.
The problem for Europe bulls is that, much like fading resilience to the effects of the virus — which has seen 
London and Paris walloped for a second time — the continent’s relative advantage is likely to dwindle before the 
end of earnings season. 
Can corporate Europe catch the US ?
By then, according to analysts’ estimates collated by FactSet, the Stoxx 600 companies are expected to lurch to a 
31 per cent decline while the US S&P 500 companies are forecast to fall by 16 per cent. 
Europe is braced for dire results from the likes of French automotive supplier Valeo as well as Lufthansa, Ryanair 
and Shell. Although the US has its own looming loss generators in the form of Walt Disney, Boeing and 
ExxonMobil, it boasts more winners from the pandemic to cushion the blow.
The US numbers already reflect Covid testing beneficiaries Quest Diagnostics, whose earnings surged more than 
140 per cent, and Thermo Fisher, whose profits are up 89 per cent. Still to come are Clorox, benefiting from our 
newfound love of bleach, and Home Depot, enjoying the home improvement craze. 
Decisive in the contest: the US still has the heavy artillery in reserve from the tech sector. Amazon’s profits are 
expected to be up more than 70 per cent. Fellow trillionaires Alphabet and Microsoft are also forecast to produce 
stronger earnings. 
Looked at optimistically, neither set of results so far is as bad as expected. A few weeks ago, the Euro Stoxx 600 
earnings had been forecast to fall by more than a third and the S&P 500 by more than a fifth. As Jonathan Golub, 
chief US equity strategist at Credit Suisse, points out, the second quarter was the biggest beat to analysts’ 
expectations since records began in 1990. The third quarter looks to be much stronger than anticipated too, even 
though forecasts have been steadily increasing. “When we have a really big beat here we have a beat on higher 
expectations,” notes Mr Golub.
More worrying, especially for Europe now hit hard by the second wave, is that the fourth quarter is looking tougher 
after the relative respite of the summer. It will be more difficult to prop up profits. Investors and executives on both 
sides of the Atlantic will focus more on external deliverance: economic stimulus and vaccines.
Load-Date: October 23, 2020
End of Document
Don’t fly away: BA owner’s tough ask to investors with shares at lows
Don’t fly away: BA owner’s tough ask to investors with shares at lows
 
FT.com
October 22, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 825 words
Byline: Kate Burgess
Body
Unlike songster John Denver, very few of us are Leaving on a Jet Plane. Least of all in the regions that IAG, owner 
of British Airways, Iberia and Vueling, operates in. It is exposed to the geographies most restricted by the pandemic 
— Spain, the UK, Ireland and the Americas. 
In Thursday’s unexpected update, it said it was grounding more planes and capacity in the fourth quarter would be 
30 per cent of what it was last year. It doesn’t expect to return fully to 2019 levels for at least three years. A few 
weeks ago it had hoped that capacity would be at 40 per cent and its net cashflows would break even. But that was 
before the second wave, an increase in local lockdowns and extended quarantine requirements in more countries.
Now, the group admits it won’t break even on cash in the next three months.
IAG has done what it should and can to contain the leakage. It is cutting jobs — 10,000 at the last count at BA — 
and capex. It is restructuring parts of the business and this month raised €2.7bn in new equity to buttress the 
balance sheet and reduce debt, which stood at a mighty €10.5bn at the end of June.
The group talks of €9.3bn in liquidity. Davy analyst Stephen Furlong reckons the company is burning through about 
€750m a month and has access to enough cash to cover it for another 12 to 16 months. It is more squeezed than 
Ryanair but not as squeezed as easyJet.
But IAG needs trippers and business travellers to start booking summer flights in the first quarter. If the cash 
doesn’t start coming, it has to find other sources of readies. Cathay Pacific, which was bailed out by the Hong Kong 
Don’t fly away: BA owner’s tough ask to investors with shares at lows
government in June, has this week announced it is cutting a quarter of the workforce and the immediate closure of 
its regional flag carrier, Cathay Dragon. Unbundling the bundle that is IAG would be more complex and take time. In 
extremis, a further call on the debt or equity markets could be accompanied by part-nationalisation. 
Like John Denver, whose ditty was used by United Airlines’ commercials in the 1960s and 1970s, IAG still hopes 
investors will wait for it, and hold it like they’ll never let it go. It is a tough ask when the shares are trading around 
the lows and no one knows when — if ever — they’ll be back again.
Shaftesbury’s begging bowl
Shafted Shaftesbury. A month ago Shaftesbury pointed to the first stages of a recovery for London’s shopping 
district, Cat Rutter Pooley writes. On Thursday boss Brian Bickell warned that in its “reasonable worst-case 
scenario”, there would be no real improvement for the best part of a year. The West End landlord has gone cap in 
hand to shareholders for £297m. 
Hardly a surprise that retail and leisure landlords are in trouble when Hammerson has already completed a 24 for 1 
rights issue and Intu has gone under. But with the likes of Soho’s Carnaby Street and Chinatown, Shaftesbury’s 
freeholds have better addresses. Investors expect an extra level of resilience. 
There is only so much stretch in the balance sheet, though, and Shaftesbury is not alone in deciding it cannot afford 
to underestimate the persistence of pandemic-induced disruption. Rolls-Royce is raising cash for similar reasons. At 
400p and a 55 per cent discount to last-reported net asset value, Shaftesbury’s placing and open offer is dilutive. 
That hasn’t deterred Covent Garden owner Capco, which bought a 26 per cent stake in June. It is now putting up 
£65m. It is the price of an option on a future merger. 
Worryingly, the assumptions underlying Shaftesbury’s worst-case scenario look possible. The landlord’s 10-year 
pre-Covid vacancy rate was 2.9 per cent. By September it was already almost 10 per cent. It could double in the 
next 15 months, if the worst comes to pass. Portfolio valuations have fallen 17 per cent in a year. They could fall 25 
per cent further in the next year. Shaftesbury reckons it could stomach a 34 per cent drop in valuations before its 
loan to value covenants came under pressure. If Covid-19 effects linger, that could become uncomfortably tight. 
Other large landlords have avoided back-foot equity raises, nonetheless. They plan to sell assets instead. And 
British Land and Land Securities have offices where tenants are still paying rents. Capco has made some timely 
sales, too. 
Shaftesbury is doing the right thing by not flogging assets at rock-bottom prices and asking investors to stump up. 
Peel Hunt analysts calculate that the 400p issue price for the cash call represents capital values of just £1,000 per 
square foot — cheap for prime London real estate. Most of the cash raised will be used sensibly to pay down debt 
and cover cash outflows at a time when rental income is iffy. It is also earmarking £63m for a rainy-day fund. That’s 
more questionable, at the margin. Shaftesbury says it could be used for investments, if conditions brighten. But 
earlier this month the UK had its  wettest day on record. 
IAG: kate.burgess@ft.com Shaftesbury: cat.rutterpooley@ft.com
Load-Date: October 22, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair scales back winter schedule as bookings fall
Ryanair scales back winter schedule as bookings fall
 
FT.com
October 15, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 413 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Low-cost airline Ryanair has slashed its winter flight schedule further as the outlook for the aviation industry 
darkens. 
The Irish airline now intends to fly just 40 per cent of last year's schedule between November and March, down 
from a previously planned 60 per cent, following a sharp fall in bookings.
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, blamed the cuts on “government mismanagement of EU air travel” as 
quarantine restrictions weaken demand for travel. 
“Our focus continues to be on maintaining as large a schedule as we can sensibly operate to keep our aircraft, our 
pilots and our cabin crew employed while minimising job losses,” he said.
Ryanair shares fell 3 per cent to €11.90 in morning trade in London as other European airline stocks came under 
pressure. Shares of rival low-cost carrier easyJet fell 5 per cent to 471.80p. 
Like its  competitors, Ryanair has been forced to reduce flights after passenger bookings failed to materialise in 
expected numbers. 
Typically, airlines are able to predict long-term passenger demand with precision, and adjust their schedules well in 
advance. 
Ryanair scales back winter schedule as bookings fall
But this year the industry has been forced into regular changes to try to match planes to erratic bookings that have 
been influenced by quarantine measures and the resurgence of the virus across many parts of Europe. 
By trimming its schedule, Ryanair intends to ensure its planes are at least 70 per cent full to help save costs. 
EasyJet will fly only 25 per cent of last year’s capacity in the final three months of this year, while Hungarian low-
cost carrier Wizz Air has also cut its schedules and expects to fly 50 per cent of last year’s flights through the winter 
unless conditions improve.
In September, BA said it was running between 25 and 30 per cent of its normal schedule. It is badly exposed to 
long-haul and corporate travel, which have been hit hardest by the pandemic.
The airline carried 5.1m passengers in September, a third of last year's number. It now expects to carry 38m 
passengers this financial year, which began in April, down from the 60m forecast in July. 
Ryanair has a strong balance sheet and many analysts expect the airline to increase its share of the market 
eventually, given its low costs and the weak state of some of its competitors.
The airline has enough available liquidity to survive more than 20 months in the current conditions, and longer if it 
began selling its aircraft, according to Stephen Furlong, an aviation analyst at Davy. 
Load-Date: October 15, 2020
End of Document
US and European stocks fall as Covid cases climb
US and European stocks fall as Covid cases climb
 
FT.com
October 15, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 552 words
Byline: Naomi Rovnick in London
Body
US and European stocks fell on signs that the spread of coronavirus is gathering pace, while a rally in German debt 
pushed yields on the regional haven to the lowest level since the market tumult in March.
The benchmark S&P 500 fell 0.2 per cent while the technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite ended 0.5 per cent lower. 
The declines were far greater in Europe, where the region-wide Stoxx 600 slid 2.1 per cent. Stocks trading in 
Frankfurt and Paris both dropped more than 2 per cent, while London’s FTSE 100 declined 1.7 per cent.
France and the UK announced new restrictions in an attempt to slow the spread of the virus, which is accelerating 
across Europe.
The US reported 57,000 new cases on Wednesday, as a record number of states registered daily increases of 
more than 1,000 new infections, while the Trump administration worried some scientists by appearing to champion 
a controversial  herd immunity strategy. 
“Markets have been surprised by the progress of the virus in the second wave,” said John Roe, strategist at Legal & 
General Investment Management. 
A rally in German 10-year debt pushed yields down 0.03 percentage points to minus 0.613 per cent, the lowest 
since Italy implemented a national lockdown in mid-March. 
US and European stocks fall as Covid cases climb
US Treasuries, by contrast, weakened. The yield on the 10-year note rose 0.01 percentage points to 0.73 per cent. 
Junk corporate debt also slipped in value. A popular exchange traded fund that invests in high-yield debt, known by 
its ticker HYG, slipped for its third consecutive day. 
The dollar, as measured against a basket of trading partners’ currencies, rose 0.4 per cent. Brent crude, the 
international oil benchmark, settled 0.4 per cent lower at $43.16 a barrel. 
Mr Roe said economists and investors had not expected governments to allow the virus to reach the point it has 
now. Across the western world, governments had prioritised social wellbeing, for example, by allowing schools and 
places of worship to reopen, he said. 
“The best of the recovery is now behind us,” added Sophie Chardon, strategist at Lombard Odier. 
In a sign of the fragility of the global economy, data released on Thursday showed 898,000 Americans filed for first-
time  jobless benefits last week. Meanwhile, airline Ryanair  sharply cut its winter flight schedule, citing increased 
government restrictions across Europe. 
Ms Chardon said investors should brace themselves for “more volatility” in share prices. The Vix index of expected 
volatility on the S&P 500 rose half a point to 26.9. The so-called fear gauge’s long-run average is about 20. A 
similar index forecasting eurozone stock market volatility also rose. 
On Wednesday evening, French president Emmanuel Macron declared a public health emergency and imposed a 
9pm to 6am curfew on Paris and eight other big French cities. 
German chancellor Angela Merkel warned that cases of Covid-19 were in an “exponential growth” phase and 
limited private gatherings to 10 people from two households. In Britain, households in London will be banned from 
mixing in any indoor setting from Friday evening. 
The map in this story has been amended to correct an erroneous data-point on the spread of coronavirus in Île-de-
France due to an error in an external data set.
Additional reporting by Harry Dempsey in London and Eric Platt and Peter Wells in New York
Load-Date: October 15, 2020
End of Document
City Bulletin: Heineken-owned pub group fined £2m for breaking tie-in rules
City Bulletin: Heineken-owned pub group fined £2m for breaking tie-in rules
 
FT.com
October 15, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 905 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
A Heineken-owned pub group has been fined £2m after “seriously and repeatedly” breaking the legally-binding 
Pubs Code over almost three years. 
Star Pubs and Bars, which operates the pub estate business of Heineken in the UK, is in trouble over so-called 
pub tie rules. The Pubs Code Adjudicator said Star had “persisted in forcing its tenants to sell unreasonable levels 
of Heineken beers and ciders” when tenants wanted to break the tie with the brewer. Star did so even after the PCA 
intervened, and despite what the watchdog said were “clear arbitration rulings”. 
On top of 12 identified breaches, the PCA found “systemic corporate failures” by Star — including by requiring the 
company’s compliance officer to ensure that the rules were “interpreted to the commercial benefit of Heineken UK”. 
An unusual approach to compliance to say the least. 
All the juicy details from the watchdog in the statement  here. 
Briefly
Ryanair is the latest airline to cut back its winter schedule as demand for flights falters. It now plans to fly only 40 
per cent of last year’s flights between November and March. Before it reckoned it would fly 60 per cent. 
Shopping centre landlord Hammerson has only managed to collect two-thirds of the rent due this year, weeks after 
the final quarterly instalment was due from tenants. But collection rates for the latest payment, due in late 
September, have at least been better than the June quarter. 
City Bulletin: Heineken-owned pub group fined £2m for breaking tie-in rules
Yesterday Just Eat Takeaway reported a 45 per cent increase in orders, today it is the turn of Domino’s Pizza to 
disclose a sales surge. Its UK and Ireland sales were up 19 per cent in the 13 weeks to the end of September, to 
£342m. The cut in VAT from 20 per cent to 5 per cent had helped sales, Domino’s said. It has created 5,000 new 
jobs. Pub group Marston’s is at the other end of the spectrum: its sales since reopening in July were down 10 per 
cent, though that is better than the pub sector as a whole. It is reviewing the future of 2,150 jobs.
Online white goods retailer AO.com reckons there’s been a “lasting step change” in shopping habits. Its revenues 
for the six months to September were 57 per cent higher than last year. Early on, it benefited from the closure of 
bricks and mortar rivals. But it has continued to see higher than usual sales since competitors have reopened. 
One of the frontrunners for the Rio Tinto chief executive job has ruled himself out of the running. Newmont boss 
Tom Palmer, a two-decade veteran of Rio until he jumped ship in 2014,  told the FT he wasn’t interested in 
replacing ousted Jean-Sébastien Jacques, who will leave Rio by the end of March. 
Rolls-Royce will raise more than expected through a bond issue that forms part of a big refinancing for the 
aerospace group. It will issue £2bn in new debt, more than the £1bn-plus it had said it was targeting. It will pay 
4.625 per cent for the 6-year notes and 5.75 per cent for the 7-year notes. 
Also out today are updates from retailer Dunelm, recruiter Hays and housebuilder Countryside Properties. 
Job moves 
British American Tobacco has appointed a new chairman. Luc Jobin, a non-executive director of the company 
since 2017, will take over from Richard Burrows as chairman in April next year. 
Beyond the Square Mile 
Tech giants are facing the threat of an EU attempt to break them up after France and the Netherlands  jointly issued 
a call for the bloc’s competition authorities to take pre-emptive measures as they prepare sweeping legislation to 
curb the companies’ market power. Cedric O, France’s digital minister, and Mona Keijzer, the Netherlands state 
secretary for digital affairs, backed calls for swift action. It included forcing the likes of Facebook and Apple to 
allow their users to take their private data to a competing platform or banning companies such as Google from 
promoting their own services at the expense of smaller rivals.
Booming markets drove  a surge in third-quarter earnings at Goldman Sachs’ trading and asset management 
businesses, helping the Wall Street bank to post its strongest profitability since 2010. “We put out a plan and we 
believe we’re executing,” David Solomon, chief executive, told analysts as he revealed a near-doubling of 
Goldman’s third-quarter net income to $3.6bn. Investment banking fees were also strong at Bank of America and 
Wells Fargo but both banks were hit by falling interest rates, which took  a painful toll on third-quarter profits.
Zoom is to bring applications and paid-for events  to its video meetings service, in a bid to consolidate its grip on 
the huge new audience that flocked to its platform during the pandemic. On Wednesday it launched OnZoom, a 
marketplace where anyone can promote and sell virtual events. The company will provide tools for organisers to 
create, market, host and charge for events, and a marketplace where consumers can sort through classes, concerts 
and other events or find fundraisers to support. 
Essential comment before you go
Lex The secret sauce of market share gains alongside profit growth  may finally be within reach for the UK-listed 
food delivery group Just Eat Takeaway.
Lombard Given the uncertain outlook for consumer spending, Asos’s share price, over 40 times next year’s 
earnings forecasts, is high. Bunzl’s straightforwardness, meanwhile,  is a blessing during a period of high 
uncertainty.
City Bulletin: Heineken-owned pub group fined £2m for breaking tie-in rules
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
Load-Date: October 15, 2020
End of Document
BA : Cruz control
BA: Cruz control
 
FT.com
October 12, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 411 words
Body
UK flag carrier British Airways, reeling like its peers from the pandemic’s impact on air travel, has axed a slew of 
flights and  cut 10,000 jobs. On Monday it was the turn of  Alex Cruz, the man whose command of the hot seat — 
as BA’s chief executive and chairman — made him responsible for the airline’s response to coronavirus.
His four-year tenure brought heavy criticism. Stakeholders of all stripes griped. Union discontent forced Mr Cruz to  
abandon controversial plans to “fire and re-hire” thousands of workers. Passengers, never a uniformly happy bunch 
at BA, ratcheted up complaints about deteriorating service. Investors pushed the market worth of parent 
International Airlines Group to under half that of Ryanair.
BA is the biggest revenue contributor to IAG, the listed entity that includes Spain’s Iberia and a clutch of other 
airlines. Last year BA made up comfortably more than half of sales at IAG and two-thirds of pre-exceptional 
operating profit. 
IAG is not disclosing the financial terms under which the Spaniard will depart or those agreed with his successor, 
Sean Doyle, the boss of Aer Lingus. Mr Cruz, who will retain the role of non-executive chairman for a transition 
period, was paid £805,000 in salary and pension last year and took a 33 per cent Covid-19 pay cut.
One hopes Mr Doyle’s terms are more in keeping with our parsimonious times. The company has just  tapped 
investors for €2.75bn to bolster its balance sheet after racking up a record first-half net loss of €3.8bn. The changes 
at the top show new IAG boss Luis Gallego putting his stamp on the group after taking over from Willie Walsh. 
Conventionally, when a boss steps down after operational challenges, the replacement is supposed to take the 
business on to a new phase. That would be optimistic in the case of BA. The airline is losing money hand over fist. 
BA : Cruz control
It cannot expect the unquestioning state bailouts continental flag carriers have been receiving. Even cheap fuel is of 
little benefit when planes are grounded. Air travel could take three to four years to get back to normal, if it ever 
does. 
The world is now in retreat from globalisation for epidemiological as well as political reasons. Friends may wonder 
whether to congratulate Mr Doyle or commiserate with him.
 Sign up to the City Bulletin newsletter for the latest company news. Every morning our Lombard writer Cat Rutter 
Pooley covers the biggest business stories and delivers them straight to your inbox.
  
Load-Date: October 12, 2020
End of Document
Aerospace executives warn on need to press green fuel use
Aerospace executives warn on need to press green fuel use
 
FT.com
October 12, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 667 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger, International Business Editor
Body
Seven of the world’s biggest aerospace companies have warned that the aviation industry’s drive to reach net zero 
carbon emissions by 2050 is at risk because of the lack of agreement on how to encourage the use of sustainable 
aviation fuel.
In a letter to the International Civil Aviation Organization, the chief technology officers of Boeing, Airbus, Rolls-
Royce, General Electric, Safran, Dassault Aviation, and Raytheon have urged greater efforts to create “conditions 
under which sustainable aviation fuels (SAF) can be widely deployed”.
They warn that without broad agreement on tools and policies to encourage the use of green fuels, energy 
companies would not put up the “trillions of dollars of capital investment between now and 2050” required to meet 
the needs of the aviation industry.
The sector is divided over how best to encourage the development of sustainable fuels, which are at present three 
to four times more expensive than conventional jet fuel. Norway, for example, has set a  minimum requirement for 
green fuel. The EU is also considering a quota for all aircraft refuelling in the bloc. 
But some airlines, such as Ryanair, have lobbied hard against quotas, unless they apply to all airlines globally. 
Others believe production should be subsidised by governments until it becomes commercially viable. 
Aerospace executives warn on need to press green fuel use
The financial questions are much more important now that the aviation industry is struggling with the  biggest crisis 
in its history because of the pandemic. With cash preservation a priority, there is little incentive to buy more green 
fuel. 
Moreover, sustainable fuels currently account for less than 1 per cent of jet fuel supply. Warren East, chief 
executive of aero-engine maker Rolls-Royce, has said in the past that volume would have to be increased by a 
factor of 1,000. “To be compatible with a net zero carbon future, we will still need 500m tonnes of sustainable fuels 
to power the aviation industry of 2050,” he said.
The challenge of expanding production has left some climate change experts sceptical about the potential of 
sustainable fuels. 
The UK’s Committee on Climate Change, a government advisory body, believes sustainable aviation fuel will 
account for just 10 per cent of total supply by 2050. However, it accepts that sustainable fuels are still key to cutting 
aviation emissions in the shorter term.
Paul Stein, Rolls-Royce CTO, said a greater sense of urgency was required. “We need to get to a place where each 
trading bloc might have its own method but we are driven by common targets so the pace can be scaled up,” he 
said.
Neither proposed electric or hydrogen-powered planes would be sufficient to deliver carbon neutral aviation, the 
aerospace executives said in their letter. About 80 per cent of carbon is emitted by flights of more than 1,500km, 
and these technologies would be suitable for shorter journeys only.
“At present we know of no single technological pathway to decarbonise long-haul flights at scale by 2050 other 
than . . . sustainable fuels,” they said. “Therefore, the requirement for the rapid scaling of [green jet fuel] is clear.”
A study published by Sustainable Aviation, which represents the UK aviation industry, argues that a green fuels 
industry could deliver about £3bn in value to the UK economy and 20,200 jobs.
The research, which was conducted by energy consultancy E4tech, argues that UK production alone would save 
3.6m tonnes of CO2 annually by 2038. 
The sustainable fuels in use today are largely made from household, municipal or industrial waste. Over their life 
cycle they emit up to 80 per cent less carbon.
Henrik Wareborn, chief executive of the waste to fuel company, Velocys, said the UK had an opportunity to take a 
lead in the market. The research identified Humberside — the location of Velocys’s Altalto plant — as one of seven 
promising locations for the green jet fuel industry in the UK. “The region has a fantastic opportunity to establish itself 
as the global hub for fuelling future air travel,” he said. 
Load-Date: October 12, 2020
End of Document
Brussels resists plan to safeguard post-Brexit share trading
Brussels resists plan to safeguard post-Brexit share trading
 
FT.com
October 6, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 708 words
Byline: Jim Brunsden in Brussels and Philip Stafford in London
Body
Brussels has pushed back against a move by EU governments to legislate against future friction over access to City 
of London share trading, saying the plan would cut across Brexit talks.
The European Commission is resisting proposals discussed by EU governments to legislate now to counter the risk 
that trading in European companies listed in London could be heavily curbed after Britain's post-Brexit transition 
period expires on January 1.
National experts from across the EU last week discussed concerns raised by Ireland that current EU rules could 
create hurdles for companies whose shares are traded both in the UK and in the EU, potentially blocking EU 
investors from trading the stocks in London's deep capital markets.  
The problem arises because of an EU rule, known as the “share trading obligation”, or STO, that limits trading on 
exchanges outside the EU once a particular share is regularly bought and sold on venues inside the 27-nation bloc. 
There are many such dual-listed companies including Ryanair and Tui, the travel company. London is the biggest 
centre for share trading on the continent and handles up to 30 per cent of the €30bn-a-day market on exchanges 
such as CBOE Europe.
But the commission has argued that the threat of losing access to London should be dealt with by other means for 
now. 
Brussels resists plan to safeguard post-Brexit share trading
Diplomats told the FT that the commission warned governments at two separate EU meetings last week that 
changing EU legislation to accommodate for Brexit disruptions was the wrong approach, and that such issues 
should not be broached in the middle of negotiations with the UK. 
The issue is one of a number of financial access questions the EU is facing as it deliberates over how to handle 
future relations with the City, a global financial centre that will henceforth be outside the single market. 
Michel Barnier, the EU's chief Brexit negotiator, has publicly questioned whether the City should be allowed to 
retain its “prominent position” in serving EU customers, but there are also pressures within the bloc to minimise 
friction for business. 
Brussels has insisted throughout Brexit talks that future financial services ties should be based on regulatory 
permissions, known as “equivalence” rights, that the commission can award to non-EU countries unilaterally. 
It has suggested that this approach, coupled with action by the EU financial markets authority, Esma, should be 
enough to largely address the problem for dual-listed shares in the short term. Brussels would then review the 
situation next year.
But diplomats confirmed that, during a video meeting of national officials on September 28, close to 10 
governments including Ireland, Luxembourg and the Baltic states spoke favourably of exploring rapid legislation to 
deal with the problem.
This would be done by inserting a solution into an otherwise unrelated financial-markets law that the commission 
proposed earlier this year. 
A spokesperson for the commission said that this draft markets law was intended to spur Europe's recovery from 
Covid-19, not to address Brexit.  
“The commission decided to focus the MIFIR review included in the Capital Markets Recovery Package on targeted 
priority actions which are important for the recovery, while other issues including the share trading obligation will be 
reviewed next year,” the spokesperson said. 
“The commission continues to believe that this phased approach is the most appropriate and that the Capital 
Markets Recovery Package is not the right place to deal with this matter.” 
According to diplomats, Brussels has also complained that it has no time to assess the impact of the solution being 
discussed by governments. 
EU governments are examining different political legislative tweaks, based on ideas presented separately by Ireland 
and by Esma. 
Ideas under consideration include adjusting EU law to create exemptions for non-EU trading of stocks that do not 
have an official identification number, known as an ISIN, that labels them as being from the EU. Governments are 
also looking at granting flexibility to stocks not denominated in euros.
The commission stance has some backing from governments, including from France, which has stressed that the 
priority should be to look at derivatives rather than shares. 
Load-Date: October 6, 2020
End of Document
City Bulletin: Markets react to Donald Trump’s positive coronavirus test
City Bulletin: Markets react to Donald Trump’s positive coronavirus test
 
FT.com
October 2, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 718 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
A potentially turbulent day ahead in markets after US president Donald Trump’s positive coronavirus test. 
Futures for both the FTSE 100 and Wall Street’s S&P 500 fell, with those for the UK index down 0.9 per cent and 
the US index 1.3 per cent. Asian markets also fell, with Tokyo’s Topix index reversing earlier gains. Trading in US 
stock futures is thin at this hour, which can exacerbate volatility, and a number of major Asian markets including 
China, Hong Kong and Korea are closed for a holiday. 
But with the news of Mr Trump’s positive test only breaking at around 6am London time, traders have had little 
opportunity to digest the potential implications for the US election, which is just a month away. You can follow all the 
news and reaction  here. 
Briefly
Two of the leading advisers on Rolls-Royce’s cash call dramatically scaled back their underwriting commitments 
days before the deeply discounted rights issue launched. Rolls-Royce announced the rights issue on Thursday, but 
Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs cut their exposure by up to half late last week, sources said, over concerns 
about coronavirus and market volatility ahead of the US election. The full report from our correspondents  here. 
Energy regulator Ofgem says seven suppliers owe a combined £34m in green energy payments after missing 
deadlines, and risk losing their licences if they fail to pay by the end of the month. The suppliers that have failed to 
City Bulletin: Markets react to Donald Trump’s positive coronavirus test
pay up include Co-operative Energy and Robin Hood Energy, the Nottingham council-run supplier that last month 
sold its customer base to British Gas owner Centrica. 
Ryanair said passenger traffic was down 64 per cent in September on the same month last year. It flew 5.1m 
passengers rather than 14.1m. The low-cost airline operated just over half its normal September schedule, with 
flights 71 per cent full. 
Also out today are the results from IAG’s rights issue and Saga’s open offer. Both have now secured the cash they 
sought from investors. And City broker Cenkos has half-year results out: it turned a small pre-tax profit. 
Beyond the Square Mile 
Pfizer’s chief executive has criticised the  politicisation of a Covid-19 vaccine. Albert Bourla, who leads the 
company with the best chance of submitting a vaccine for authorisation before the US election, said he would not 
be pressured to move more quickly or slowly in what he described as a “hyper-partisan” year. In a memo to staff, 
seen by the Financial Times, he argued that the “amplified political rhetoric” around vaccine development and 
timing was “undercutting public confidence”. 
Boeing will stop making the 787 wide-bodied, long-haul Dreamliner aircraft  in Washington state and consolidate 
production at its non-unionised plant in South Carolina. The move comes after coronavirus crippled the demand for 
air travel across continents, routes which are expected to take the longest to recover from the impact of the virus. 
Boeing, which started manufacturing the 787 in Everett in the Puget Sound region of Washington state in 2007, has 
already twice cut production plans for the aircraft since the pandemic began.
Nikola, the embattled electric vehicle start-up, has  forced the removal of several critical videos from YouTube, 
saying they infringed its copyright by using footage from the company — including the now-famous clip of a 
prototype truck rolling down a hill. At least two online financial commentators who run channels on the Google-
owned video platform have had clips removed by YouTube this week. “Right now my main concern is that Nikola is 
using copyright strikes to silence their critics,” Sam Alexander, who runs a YouTube account that has posted 
several critical videos about Nikola, told the Financial Times.
Essential comment before you go
Merryn Somerset Webb If you are prepared to open your mind to the idea that the UK is not a lost cause (it isn’t) 
and that the headwinds we face are fairly temporary (they are), the UK stock market suddenly looks  very 
interesting.
Lombard Special purpose acquisition companies, or Spacs, are all the rage in the US this year. But they have yet 
to catch on in the UK, where investors  are nursing the scars from a long line of blank cheque duds. 
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
Load-Date: October 2, 2020
End of Document
UK investors hunker down amid rising virus worries
UK investors hunker down amid rising virus worries
 
FT.com
September 26, 2020 Saturday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 743 words
Byline: Jamie Powell
Body
The tale this week for  UK investors will feel wearily familiar. Again Covid-19 cases are rising. Again the risk of a 
nationwide lockdown is looming. Again the economy looks like it might be dealt another body blow.
The question for investors now is whether recent history continues to repeat. As the pandemic started to spread 
early in the year, the market saw a 35 per cent drop from its peak in mid-January before joining a global rally driven 
by the huge intervention by central banks.
For now, investors still seem to be taking a rather gloomy view of UK company prospects with the FTSE 100 falling 
nearly 3 per cent over the week. Even before this fall, the FTSE 100’s year-to-date loss of 20 per cent meant it was 
lagging its US and European counterparts by over 10 percentage points. 
Profit forecasts might be akin to “finger in the air” estimates given the macro uncertainties but Nobel Prize winning 
economist Robert Schiller’s longer-term measure of comparing today’s prices to the average earnings of the past 
decade now shows the UK market to be trading on a ratio of just 12.6 times, down from 15.8 times at the end of 
2019.
The initial reaction this week may be more muted than the sell-off in March but it still indicated a downbeat 
assessment of the prospects for a market heavily exposed to cyclical industries such as finance, commodities and 
travel.
UK investors hunker down amid rising virus worries
Chancellor Rishi Sunak’s  fresh $5bn for the economy might provide some support but the pain is still coming. As 
Deutsche Bank’s Sanjay Raja pointed out in a note on Thursday: “We don't think the chancellor's plan will be 
enough to fully avert a jobs crisis in the near term.” 
Financials, as the second largest sector in the market, will be of particular concern if that is the case. Although Bank 
of England governor Andrew Bailey  played down the likelihood of negative interest rates this week, the prospect of 
a dwindling number of borrowers will be of little comfort to investors who have watched banks struggle to eke out a 
profit after a decade of near-zero rates. The outlook for even mid-single digit returns on equity continues to look 
dim.
Sell-offs, of course, also bring opportunities for those seeing through the gloom over a longer term. Morgan Stanley 
believes there might be some in travel, a sector hit by dashed hopes of swift return to holidaying. Already out-of-
favour plays such as easyJet, Tui and Wizz Air were all down over 15 per cent this week. Morgan Stanley did plump 
for Ryanair this week as one cyclical pick.
The reasons will be familiar to followers of Michael O’Leary’s fee extracting airline: lowest unit costs, a lack of 
competition on some routes and ample liquidity from a recent bout of capital raises should mean Ryanair is well 
placed to capitalise when we do take to the skies again. Little is mentioned, however, of the potential for  lingering 
caution over air travel after a stressful summer of quarantines. News on Thursday of the company offering a buy 
one get one free offer does not bode well for its margins either.
Just as airlines have fared poorly on news of further lockdown measures, so the stay-at-home stocks, such as 
Ocado, Just Eat Takeaway and stock gambling stock Plus 500, have excelled. Grocery delivery specialist Ocado 
has done particularly well, with its stock up 10 per cent following news of a bumper third quarter last week, taking its 
year-to-date return to 124 per cent.
One less obvious stay-at-home play is gin enabler Fevertree which, despite falling a touch this week, is up 11 per 
cent year to date. It seems like an aeon ago that the company swept into town after Schweppes ignored premium 
gin’s rise among the melancholic middle classes. In the UK, Fevertree’s years of revenues doubling are now firmly 
in the past, according to Morgan Stanley.  The great expectations for a further run in sales of mother’s ruin, 
however, lie across the pond. But it is facing fierce competition there and for a company trading at 46 times 2021’s 
earnings,  there is likely some pain ahead if there is even a suggestion its US business is losing its fizz.
More broadly, investors might need a stiff drink. The market might rally as investors look through the gloom to a 
world after a Covid-19 vaccine but a  winter of rising unemployment and restrictions to tackle the virus will test 
longer-term resolve to stay the course. And that is before one big uncertainty — the countdown to Brexit. If there is 
no deal on this, all bets are off.
Load-Date: September 28, 2020
End of Document
Willie Walsh takes first job after leaving IAG
Willie Walsh takes first job after leaving IAG
 
FT.com
September 24, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 429 words
Byline: Daniel Thomas
Body
Willie Walsh has taken a new job at a Dublin-based travel technology group just weeks after leaving British Airways’ 
owner International Airlines Group. 
He will become deputy chairman of CarTrawler, which was acquired by private equity group TowerBrook Capital 
Partners in May. TowerBrook promised to spend €100m on growing the business ahead of any easing of travel 
restrictions from the pandemic. 
CarTrawler, which connects airlines and travel agents to car hire, airport transfer and car-booking services, was 
taken over from private equity groups BC Partners and Insight Venture Partners after an emergency debt 
restructuring.
The company has been hit hard by the pandemic, with demand for its car services falling sharply as countries 
around Europe forced through travel bans and economic restrictions. BC Partners and Insight Venture Partners 
bought the business in 2014 for about €450m.
Mr Walsh retired as chief executive of  IAG after 15 years in September. He was praised for his decades-long role 
in pushing through the consolidation and modernisation of the airline industry, but also earned the nickname 
“slasher Walsh” for his tough position in labour negotiations. 
Willie Walsh takes first job after leaving IAG
This month, IAG suffered a shareholder  revolt after paying a bonus of £883,000 to Mr Walsh for his work in 2019 
as part of a total package of close to £3.2m. The final payout attracted criticism from investor groups given the 
savage cuts facing airlines during the pandemic.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, told the Financial Times when the former pilot left that “all his 
competitors” would be saying “thank God he is retiring — now please don’t come back”. 
Mr Walsh is from Dublin, where CarTrawler is based, and will take the new role at the end of the month.
The 58-year-old will join the business alongside David Barger, who was part of the founding team of JetBlue 
Airways, and Conor Kehoe, senior adviser and former senior partner at McKinsey, as non-executive directors.
CarTrawler chairman Patrick Kennedy said the three brought “extensive global experience in the aviation and 
technology industries that will add significant value as the world recovers”.
Cormac Barry, chief executive of CarTrawler, said demand for car rental was recovering more quickly than other 
forms of transport as consumers saw cars as the safest way to travel. 
He pointed to a number of new partnerships with easyJet, SAP Concur and Hopper. CarTrawler provides about 100 
airlines and 2,000 online travel partners with services that connect passengers to car hire companies such as Hertz, 
Avis and Sixt.
Load-Date: September 24, 2020
End of Document
Second wave changes the calculus for Rolls-Royce ’s cash call
Second wave changes the calculus for Rolls-Royce’s cash call
 
FT.com
September 21, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 793 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today is good advice for procrastinators and those in a pickle. Rolls-
Royce is undoubtedly in a pickle. And it has arguably been putting off an inevitable equity raise for months. But the 
situation facing the aerospace engineering group, which confirmed on Monday that it was  evaluating a cash call of 
up to £2.5bn, is nuanced and not as straightforward as its weakened share price implies. 
It was always really a question of when, not if, with Rolls’ equity issue. Its shares have fallen steadily from 680p at 
the start of the year to 160p by Monday. The strain on its balance sheet was plain well before August’s half-year 
results. Revenues based on the number of hours its engines fly plummeted when aircraft fleets were grounded, 
while cash burn and net debt soared. Difficulties forecasting the industry’s future could be cause for delay, but that 
didn’t stop easyJet, Ryanair and IAG tapping investors for cash injections before the summer was out.
Rolls pulled out other stops to shore up its liquidity, though, securing access to £4.2bn in new debt between April 
and August and starting a painful restructuring process to save cash. It is also targeting £2bn in proceeds from 
asset sales, with Spanish parts maker ITP Aero slated for disposal. 
If the base case for recovery it laid out last month comes to pass, Rolls says it shouldn’t need the extra equity. That 
is debatable. It will be a slow return to its investment-grade credit rating without one. But if Rolls can afford to wait 
and circumstances do improve, it could avoid an unnecessarily large and dilutive equity issue. Analysts talked about 
a £2bn raise, not £2.5bn, before August’s results.
Second wave changes the calculus for Rolls-Royce ’s cash call
Rolls’ base case depends on avoiding a second series of lockdowns and a rebound in earnest from the fourth 
quarter, however. Recent data are not encouraging. The “severe but plausible downside scenario” Rolls presented 
last month, under which it would need to find more money within the next 18 months, seems ever more likely. If the 
worst does come to pass, refinancing will become much more difficult with delay. 
Doing an equity raise now is a hedge against Rolls-Royce’s worst-case scenario becoming its base case. If there is 
a drastic improvement in coronavirus cases in the coming weeks, Rolls can always change course. But given 
current conditions, it can ill-afford to put off preparing. 
Mind the (revenue) gap
Out of any crisis comes opportunity, Jonathan Ford writes. And so it is with Britain’s creaking rail franchising 
system. The collapse in passenger numbers — down 70 per cent since the lockdown — is accelerating the move to 
a different contractual model, as the latest crisis measures attest.
The government needs to keep the ghostly network running if it is to have much chance of luring more workers 
back to offices and factories, without gridlocking the country’s roads.
Emergency contracts handed out in March, which essentially underwrote the costs of the network, are evolving. 
New recovery agreements with operators are more stringent. The government  will continue to take the revenue risk 
until the spring of 2022. But the fees paid to operators, based on pre-coronavirus costs, will be capped at 1.5 per 
cent rather than a flat 2 per cent beforehand.
Some of that fee will be subject to performance measures. These include obvious ones such as punctuality, 
cleanliness and so forth. But there also could be rewards for luring customers back on to the railways faster. 
Given the rise of Zoom, and enduring doubts about the speed of the recovery in commuter traffic, a fee-based 
system may be the most sensible destination, with operators paid to provide capacity and the network taking some 
or all of the revenue risk. 
Moving to such a system isn’t a panacea. But it could at least eliminate some of the gaming that went on under the 
franchise regime. This not only saw operators treat franchises as an “upside-only” option, coining it in the good 
times and handing them back when things got tough. It led franchise agreements to become hugely prescriptive as 
the Department for Transport tried to ensure that profits were not made at the expense of service quality. That 
snuffed out one of the main virtues of franchising: the scope for innovation.
The challenge will be to make a fee-based model both dynamic and efficient. Transport for London, which has long 
operated one, had some of the highest costs on the network of any UK operator, according to a 2014 study by the 
Office of Rail and Road. The government will need to show it can avoid simply puffing up costs across the entire 
network. But in the meantime, keeping the trains on the track is probably enough.
Rolls-Royce: cat.rutterpooley@ft.comRail: jonathan.ford@ft.com
Load-Date: September 21, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair hit by big shareholder revolt over chief executive’s pay
Ryanair hit by big shareholder revolt over chief executive’s pay
 
FT.com
September 17, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 565 words
Byline: George Steer and Philip Georgiadis
Body
Ryanair suffered a significant shareholder revolt on Thursday over plans to pay chief executive Michael O’Leary a 
€458,000 bonus despite the airline furloughing staff and taking state support in response to the pandemic.
A third of the carrier’s investors voted against the airline’s non-binding remuneration report, which included Mr 
O’Leary’s bonus payout for the year up to the end of March 2020, at the annual meeting in Dublin. 
Mr O’Leary’s base pay for the financial year ending in 2021 will be cut by half to €250,000.
The rebellion was larger than what British Airways owner International Airlines Group suffered this month, when 20 
per cent of shareholders voted against its pay plan. This included a bonus of £883,000 for IAG boss Willie Walsh. 
It is the second year in a row Ryanair has faced protests from shareholders. Last year only 50 per cent voted in 
favour of the pay report after Mr O’Leary agreed a five-year contract, including 10m in share options.
Investor adviser Institutional Shareholder Services had recommended a vote against the pay report for the financial 
year to the end of March because it was “difficult to justify”.
The world’s biggest proxy adviser criticised a bonus that was about 92 per cent of the maximum Mr O’Leary could 
receive at a time when the  aviation industry is in turmoil and suffering its worst crisis.
Glass Lewis, the world’s second-biggest proxy adviser, had urged shareholders to abstain. In the final count, about 
65 per cent voted in favour, 33 per cent against with 2 per cent abstaining. 
Ryanair hit by big shareholder revolt over chief executive’s pay
Ryanair declined to comment on the pay report. 
The protests are the latest sign that executive bonuses are becoming a flashpoint for investors concerned about 
how companies are reacting to the pandemic. 
Asset managers such as M&G have warned that some corporate bosses are not sharing the pain and are enjoying 
large payouts, despite businesses furloughing staff and cutting dividends.
Ryanair has so far claimed £600m in support through the Bank of England’s Covid Corporate Financing Facility, as 
well as making use of the UK’s Job Retention Scheme. 
In its latest financial report, Stan McCarthy, chairman, warned that Ryanair had never before “faced such an 
existential crisis”. 
Before the pandemic struck, the airline had expected to carry more than 150m passengers in the 12 months to the 
end of March, but now predicts numbers closer to 50m.
In July, Mr O’Leary warned that further disruption caused by a second wave of infections in the autumn could lead 
to further pay cuts and job losses. The airline fell to a €185m loss in the three months to the end of June and 
already plans to axe up to 3,000 jobs. 
The annual meeting came as Ryanair prepares to take its battle against government-led bailouts in the airline 
sector to the European courts. The first hearings are scheduled for next week, as the carrier challenges what it calls 
“state aid doping”, insisting government interventions to about a dozen airlines are illegal under European law and 
would leave the competitive landscape distorted.
“It is important that someone stands up for competition in this industry, and for consumers,” said Juliusz Komorek, 
the airline's chief legal officer. “We believe that allocating over €30bn to 10 plus airlines and forgetting about 
everyone else who provides connectivity in Europe is not going to end up contributing to consumer welfare,” he 
said. 
Load-Date: September 17, 2020
End of Document
Fed, BoE and Japan meet, biggest week for IPOs since Uber
Fed, BoE and Japan meet, biggest week for IPOs since Uber
 
FT.com
September 13, 2020 Sunday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1450 words
Body
Three of the biggest central banks — the Federal Reserve, Bank of England and Bank of Japan — will be in action 
this week.
No changes in course are expected from any of them, but Brexit, the Fed’s new strategy on inflation and falling tech 
stocks will be on investors’ minds as they look for clues as to what to expect next.
Covid-19 infections continue to rise in some parts of the world, partially due to more testing, but also as a 
consequence of the gradual reopening of borders and economic activities. Several countries will introduce new 
restrictions,  including England where there will be a ban on social gatherings of more than six people. 
On the corporate side a bumper week of IPOs is expected, Japan’s SoftBank is expected to announce it will sell off 
the UK’s Arm Holdings to US chip company Nvidia for more than $40bn, while BP is due to unveil its plans to shift 
away from oil and gas on Monday and Apple’s September product launch will be closely watched on Tuesday.
Pay will be in focus at Ryanair’s annual general meeting and UK retailer New Look is set for another  clash with its 
landlords on Tuesday.
Boris Johnson will be grilled on the UK government’s response to coronavirus when he appears before the House 
of Commons liaison committee on Wednesday.
Brexit remains in the news, with the UK’s internal market bill being debated in the House of Commons this week. 
Brussels has warned the bill has “seriously damaged trust between the EU and the UK” and the European 
Commission has  threatened legal action unless controversial clauses are withdrawn.
•
Former UK leaders unite to condemn Boris Johnson’s Brexit move
Fed, BoE and Japan meet, biggest week for IPOs since Uber
Ursula von der Leyen, European Commission president, will give her first State of European Union address before 
the European Parliament on Wednesday. 
European and Chinese leaders meet virtually on Monday to negotiate an  investment treaty that has been six years 
in the making and has now reached a “critical stage”.
Japan’s ruling Liberal Democratic party will vote on Monday on who succeeds  Shinzo Abe as leader, with the 
winner —  widely expected to be chief cabinet secretary Yoshihide Suga — almost certain to become Japan’s next 
prime minister. 
Belarus’s embattled president Alexander Lukashenko will  meet his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin on Monday 
to shore up Moscow’s support for his crackdown on protesters. 
Central banks
The Federal Reserve’s two-day meeting — the first since the Fed announced it would change strategy and tolerate 
higher inflation — concludes on Wednesday.
Analysts have concerns that the past week’s stock market volatility — when the Nasdaq fell by as much as 10 per 
cent from its high and rocked other indices — could herald the start of a larger sell-off that will throw the market off 
its course after a six-month rally.
The market is already waiting on fiscal aid package and the US presidential election looms. As such, investors will 
look for signs of any extra steps the central bank will take to support growth, half a year since the economy locked 
down to contain the coronavirus. However policymakers are not expected to change their guidance on how long 
interest rates will stay near zero. 
The Bank of England meets on Thursday, with Brexit back on the radar after the UK government revealed 
legislation that would override key parts of its EU exit agreement, risking the  collapse of trade negotiations with 
Brussels. 
Analysts don’t expect any immediate action from the Monetary Policy Committee to address the heightened Brexit 
risks, but investors will be watching carefully for clues on what policymakers will do next.
Brexit uncertainties have also brought forward the expected timing of a cut in interest rates from the current record 
low of 0.1 per cent. 
A move to zero by February has now been fully priced into interest rate futures contracts, with a growing chance of 
a cut into negative territory later in 2021. 
At last month’s meeting, BoE governor Andrew Bailey kept his cards close to his chest regarding a cut, only saying 
that negative rates remained in the central bank’s “toolbox”.
Further reading
•
Gavyn Davies: Why the Bank of England’s message on monetary financing needs clarity
•
Market Questions: How will the BoE respond to the return of Brexit risks?
The Bank of Japan is expected to keep rates on hold on Wednesday. A slightly more upbeat economic view is 
expected to emerge from the meeting, albeit with Covid risks remaining.
A rate cut is possible when South Africa meets on Thursday after the economy shrank more than expected in the  
second quarter. 
Poland is expected to keep interest rates unchanged when its central bank meets on Tuesday and Russia may 
well end its easing cycle when policymakers meet on Friday.
Fed, BoE and Japan meet, biggest week for IPOs since Uber
Brazil is likely to end its easing cycle on Wednesday.
Companies news and earnings
It will be a busy week for companies, if not earnings results.
Two of the largest US software listings in history will lead the  biggest week for initial public offerings since Uber’s 
flotation last year, as companies cash in on the market’s hunger for technology stocks. 
A dozen IPOs are set to raise $6.8bn, with half of the proceeds coming from three California tech listings, according 
to Refinitiv, a data provider. Snowflake, the cloud software business, will raise $2.2bn, and Unity, a video game 
software company, will raise $950m. 
Sumo Logic, another data software platform, will raise $281m. The projected totals are based on the shares’ pricing 
at the midpoint of the ranges marketed to investors.  
Snowflake’s IPO will be the largest ever US software offering, eclipsing the 2007 listing of VMware and underlining 
the rising fortunes of enterprise software services, according to data provided by Renaissance Capital, a fund 
manager of IPO exchange traded funds. Unity would be the third-largest.
SoftBank is  set to sell the UK’s Arm Holdings to US chip company Nvidia for more than $40bn, just four years after 
its founder Masayoshi Son bought the chip designer and said it would be the linchpin for the future of the Japanese 
technology group. The deal could be announced as soon as Monday.
BP holds a three-day virtual investor event where it will provide details on its plans to shift away from oil and gas to 
renewable energy and power markets.
Further reading
•
BP’s Looney stakes future on producing less oil
Apple’s  flagship September event takes place on Tuesday and for the first time in almost a decade it will be 
missing the company’s most famous and profitable product, the iPhone. The launch of the much-anticipated 5G 
iPhone has been delayed to October due to coronavirus-related supply chain disruption. 
Instead the “Time Flies” event will showcase Apple’s accessories business and other hardware, including the sixth 
iteration of the Apple Watch, a new iPad Air — and possibly over-the-ear headphones called AirPods Studio and a 
lost-items tracker reportedly called AirTags.
Ryanair is poised for a clash with investors over executive pay on Thursday at its annual general meeting. The low-
cost airline has been criticised for paying a  €450,000 bonus to chief executive Michael O’Leary, despite furloughing 
staff and taking government support for the damage caused by the pandemic to the travel industry.
New Look is set for another  clash with its landlords on Tuesday as it prepares to ask for further big cuts in rents 
with a warning that it could go bust without them. 
The fashion retailer, which has almost 500 stores and employs more than 12,000 people, is proposing its second 
company voluntary arrangement in as many years as it contends with a hit to sales from coronavirus. 
But property owners are aggrieved at the terms of its proposal — which they say goes well beyond the normal remit 
of the controversial insolvency process — and fear it will set an unwelcome precedent.
For the earnings reports, parcel delivery company FedEx will have a first-quarter update on Tuesday.
Grocery-delivery service Ocado and fast-fashion retailer H&M issue trading updates on Tuesday, while retailers 
John Lewis & Partners and Next publish first-half year results on Thursday.
Fed, BoE and Japan meet, biggest week for IPOs since Uber
Economic data
The UK has labour market data out on Tuesday, when unemployment rates will be watched closely to see if they 
increase for the first time since the start of the pandemic.
Retail figures are due from China on Tuesday, the US on Wednesday and the UK and Canada on Friday. 
The OECD will publish updated economic forecasts for the G20 countries on Monday.
The weekly US initial jobless claims data will closely watched as usual on Thursday.
China has industrial production, investment, retail and unemployment data out on Tuesday that is expected to show 
the supply-led recovery is maintaining momentum.
Load-Date: September 16, 2020
End of Document
BA owner IAG launches steeply discounted €2.75bn rights issue
BA owner IAG launches steeply discounted €2.75bn rights issue
 
FT.com
September 10, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 567 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
British Airways owner IAG has launched a steeply discounted €2.75bn rights issue to help shore up its finances 
through the disruption caused by coronavirus. 
The airline group also warned it expects to carry fewer passengers than forecast this year and next as travel 
restrictions and quarantine measures hamper its recovery.
Alex Cruz, BA chief executive, was one of several UK airline executives to write to the UK prime minister on 
Thursday to plead for further support including testing on arrival. The letter, seen by the Financial Times, said the 
industry risked “ruin” otherwise. 
IAG, which announced the  emergency fundraising in July alongside a €2bn second-quarter loss, will issue nearly 
3bn new shares at €0.92 each, a 36 per cent discount based on the new fully expanded share capital. Current 
shareholders will be entitled to buy three of the new shares for each two shares they currently own. 
Stephen Furlong, analyst at Davy Research, said the discount was steeper than he had expected. The shareholder 
dilution was also more than he expected.
“You can see what they are trying to do, raise the money no matter what,” he said. “The key was just to raise the 
money, the price was just a secondary thought.”
BA owner IAG launches steeply discounted €2.75bn rights issue
The rights issue won the overwhelming support of shareholders at IAG’s annual meeting in Madrid this week. Qatar 
Airways, IAG’s largest shareholder which has steadily been building its stake in the airline group since 2015, took 
up its share entitlement in full. 
IAG, which suffered a  shareholder revolt over pay to top bosses including departed chief executive Willie Walsh, 
said it expected to be able to survive a “prolonged downturn” in air travel, and is confident it will emerge from the 
crisis as a more nimble and flexible company. 
It has already cut more than 8,000 of its planned 13,000 job losses at British Airways, largely through voluntary 
redundancies.
The airline also said it has reached an agreement in principle over its restructuring at British Airways with union 
Unite, with a ballot of members set to follow in the coming weeks. 
The company had total liquidity of €7.6bn by the end of August, including €5.8bn in cash and its equivalents. 
The airline group is the latest major carrier to trim its flying schedules this week as expected passenger numbers 
fail to materialise, following easyJet, Ryanair and the US’s United Airlines. 
Bookings at IAG have levelled off since recovering to about 30 per cent of pre-pandemic levels by the end of June, 
it said in a trading update alongside the rights issue. 
Short-haul bookings have fallen slightly since the UK and some other European countries introduced quarantine 
requirements on passengers returning from some popular tourist destinations including Spain, while long-haul travel 
remains subdued. 
IAG now expects capacity to fall 63 per cent in 2020 compared with the previous year, as opposed to the 59 per 
cent previously forecast. For next year, it is expected to decline 27 per cent compared with 2019, as opposed to the 
24 per cent previously expected.
As the damage ripples through the industry, the global airlines body warned that an urgent rescue plan was needed 
to stop the UK falling behind international competitors. 
Iata said the impact of the pandemic had been exacerbated by government policies, and called for the introduction 
of airport testing and an extension of the government’s furlough scheme. 
Load-Date: September 10, 2020
End of Document
US and European airlines cut schedules as passengers fail to return
US and European airlines cut schedules as passengers fail to return
 
FT.com
September 9, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 590 words
Byline: Claire Bushey in Chicago and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
US and European airlines warned on Wednesday of grim outlooks for the coming months, cutting schedules as 
passengers continue to avoid air travel during the pandemic. 
Ryanair, Europe’s largest low-cost airline, reduced its forecast for passengers it expects to carry in the fiscal year to 
March, as the carrier warned this winter will be “a write-off”. 
Finnair, Finland’s flagship airline, said it would operate no more than 80 flights daily in October compared with the 
200 previously planned. 
In the US, traditional network carrier United Airlines said its capacity would fall 70 per cent compared with the third-
quarter of 2019. The company’s earlier guidance was a fall of 65 per cent. 
Revenue, too, will be lower than executives forecast: down 85 per cent from the $11.4bn a year earlier, not 83 per 
cent.
The cuts are part of an industry pattern where airlines announce ambitious flying schedules only to trim them as 
departure dates approach and passengers fail to materialise. Industry body Iata said airlines globally are projected 
to lose a record $84bn this year.
EasyJet cut its flight schedule earlier this week. Ryanair now expects to carry 50m passengers in the 12 months to 
the end of March, down from the 60m projected in July. The airline had forecast more than 150m passengers 
before the pandemic struck.
US and European airlines cut schedules as passengers fail to return
Ryanair’s chief executive Michael O’Leary said the airline could cut more flights in the coming months. 
“We’re probably looking at closing more bases and withdrawing more capacity in those countries where you’re 
operating completely defective and non-scientific quarantines,” he told Reuters.
The airline industry’s recovery hopes have been hit hard by rising coronavirus cases across many countries in 
Europe and parts of the US, as well as travel restrictions including the UK’s requirement that passengers returning 
from most countries self-isolate for 14 days.   
The industry is pushing for the adoption of testing on arrival at airports to help cut quarantine times and encourage 
people back into the sky, a system the UK government  is considering.
Mr O’Leary said the UK government had been “pretty poor in almost all respects of dealing with Covid”.
“They were late into lockdown, they were late into testing, they were late into face masks, now they’re pooh-poohing 
testing. Testing is the only way forward here,” he told the BBC. 
Airlines are adapting to an environment where business and international travel has been particularly hard hit by  
focusing on leisure travel and customers flying to see friends and family. 
United said it would launch seven new long-haul routes from the US over the next year: two from mainland cities to 
Hawaii, and five connecting diaspora populations to destinations in India and Africa.
“We’re really focused on rethinking the network,” said Patrick Quayle, United’s vice-president of international 
network and alliances. “We’re not just looking at adding everything back prior to the way it was before coronavirus.”
Given United’s hubs in cities with significant immigrant populations, the airline had long wanted to fly from the US to 
Johannesburg in South Africa, New Delhi and Bangalore in India, Lagos in Nigeria, and Accra, the capital of Ghana, 
Mr Quayle said. However, before the pandemic forced cuts to other international routes, it lacked planes in the fleet 
to do it.
“This is about implementing our business plan at a time when [visiting friends and family] travel is quite robust,” he 
said. “We have the aircraft right now, so we’re going to put the markets into play.”
Load-Date: September 10, 2020
End of Document
AstraZeneca suspends Covid-19 vaccine trials
AstraZeneca suspends Covid-19 vaccine trials
 
FT.com
September 9, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1351 words
Byline: Andrew Jack
Body
Your level-headed briefing on how the coronavirus pandemic is affecting the markets, global business, our 
workplaces and daily lives, with expert input from our reporters and specialists across the globe.
For updates visit our  live blog. Please send your reactions and suggestions to . We would like to hear from you.
The FT is offering a free 30-day trial to Coronavirus Business Update, which includes access to FT.com. Please 
spread the word by forwarding this newsletter to friends and colleagues who you think would find it valuable. And if 
this has been forwarded to you, hello. Please sign up  here
Latest news
•
Florida reported  the biggest one-day increase in deaths since August 18. A total of 202 people have died 
from the disease in the past 24 hours, more than double the average over the past week. However, 
officials said the latest data may reflect some catch-up from levels that were lower due to delays in 
reporting over the Labor Day long weekend.
•
Lloyds Banking Group, the UK’s largest high-street lender, has announced  the first job cuts since putting 
restructuring plans on hold at the start of the pandemic. The loss of 865 positions will be partially offset by 
the creation of 226 new jobs elsewhere in the business. 
•
Ryanair, Europe’s largest low-cost airline, cut its forecast for how many passengers  it expected to carry in 
the current fiscal year and warned this winter would be “a write-off”. Finnish carrier Finnair, meanwhile,  
ripped up its autumn schedule.
AstraZeneca suspends Covid-19 vaccine trials
AstraZeneca has  paused all clinical trials of the Covid-19 vaccine it is developing with Oxford university after a 
participant in the UK section of the study suffered a suspected serious adverse reaction.
The company stressed it was a routine action and testing could resume next week, while Francis Collins, the head 
of the US National Institutes of Health, said the pause was proof that the race to find a vaccine was  not 
compromising safety.
But in the most scrutinised vaccine development process ever, the delay risks damping hopes for new tools to 
swiftly tackle coronavirus and is drawing widespread attention after political leaders have sought to associate 
themselves with rapid launches.
The White House has considered  fast-tracking the process for its vaccine ahead of the US presidential election, 
according to people familiar with the matter, with the head of the Food and Drug Administration saying he was 
willing to  bypass the normal approval procedure.
Russia has already announced plans  to approve mass use of its “Sputnik 5” vaccine, raising concerns by vaccine 
producers. Thomas Cueni, director-general of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, called 
the move “deeply troubling”. He  wrote in the Financial Times: “Nothing is more important to the companies I 
represent than the health and safety of those receiving a vaccine.”
Aside from any safety concerns, widespread distribution of a vaccine ahead of rigorous testing for efficacy risks 
boosting “vaccine hesitancy”. A new book called Anti-vaxxers,  reviewed today by the FT, warns instead that those 
supporting vaccination should persuade others of its value — once products were proven safe and effective.
Markets
Companies across the US are taking advantage of low borrowing costs to  extend the maturity of their debt, selling 
longer and longer dated bonds to investors starved of yield. More than $250bn worth of US bonds have been 
issued with the primary purpose of refinancing debt this year, almost double that in the same period last year, 
according to data from Refinitiv.
Wall Street bounced back on Wednesday from the worst sell-off for US technology stocks since March. The tech-
weighted Nasdaq Composite snapped a three-session rout to rise 1.9 per cent as New York resumed trading. The 
broader S&P 500 added 1.3 per cent, taking its cues from its European peers.
Ryanair has become the  first big European airline to sell a bond since the start of the pandemic, as investors 
shrugged off concerns about tightening travel restrictions in Europe. The continent’s largest low-cost carrier sold 
€850m of five-year bonds on Tuesday at a yield of 3 per cent, after investors put in €4.4bn worth of orders.
Business
LVMH’s planned $16.6bn  takeover of US jeweller Tiffany was thrown into jeopardy on Wednesday after the French 
conglomerate said the deal could not be completed. The largest-ever deal in the luxury sector has become the most 
high-profile example of how transactions agreed before the coronavirus emergency have soured.
Businesses in Spain, Italy, the Netherlands and the UK were more likely to cut dividends than executive pay this 
year, despite calls from shareholders for  bosses to share the financial pain caused by Covid-19. “Executive 
remuneration remains a key focal point for investors and was among the most contested resolutions in the majority 
of the markets,” said Domenic Brancati from Georgeson, a corporate governance consultancy.
With cinemas yet to reopen in India, groups including Disney, Netflix and Amazon have had a fresh opportunity to 
muscle in,  snapping up a string of cinema-bound blockbusters from cash-starved Bollywood studios in a move that 
could upset the balance of power in the country’s giant but traditional film business.
AstraZeneca suspends Covid-19 vaccine trials
Global economy
Job openings for blue-collar workers in the UK are recovering faster than demand for white-collar roles, according 
to a survey that suggests office  support staff are among the main casualties of the shift to working from home after 
the coronavirus crisis started.
Sebastian Kurz, Austria’s chancellor, cautioned that while the country’s tough lockdown measures had eased the 
coronavirus burden, it  would not have a balanced budget “for the next few years”. He also defended its resistance 
to the EU’s €750bn coronavirus bailout package. “We want to support other countries . . . but it’s not possible to 
accept an enormous number of grants.”
US Senate Republicans have proposed  scrapping $200bn in government funding for future emergency lending 
by the Federal Reserve, as part of a new economic stimulus package that congressional Democrats have already 
dismissed as insufficient. 
Get in touch
How is your workplace dealing with the pandemic? And what do you think business and markets — and our daily 
lives — will look like after lockdown? Please tell us by emailing . We may publish your contribution in an upcoming 
newsletter. Thanks
In response to management editor Andrew Hill’s launch of our  rebooting the workplace series with an article on the 
need to  shift to hybrid approaches and a need for new approaches to management, FT reader Aramachia 
commented: 
For those like me in their 20s who have to house-share in London but not being able to go into the office I don't 
think a permanent wfh is really . . . ideal; you miss out on concentration space to think properly, people to 
interact with on professional issues and a sense of a place to work before you go home to relax and switch off, 
which is what home should really be for. 
The essentials
 Tired of WFH? Try ‘work from hotel’ Emma Jacobs sampled a London hotel’s “remote working” package. The food 
and change of scene was welcome, and she had “the first period of blissful interruption-free concentration for days”. 
But — aside from the cost — the routines “seemed to embody the coronavirus blur . . . [with] all corners of life — 
work, family, school, leisure — merged into one shapeless mass”.
FT event:  Science, the Economy and the Race to RecoveryHow will markets react to a Covid-19 vaccine? Join the 
FT’s Hannah Kuchler and Colby Smith as they discuss science, the economy and the race to recovery in a series 
exploring our new economic reality on September 15.  Sign up here.
Final thought
The FT’s US financial editor and sartorial expert Robert Armstrong laments the drift towards  utilitarian, 
homogenous, casual dress — particularly for men in an era of jeans and T-shirts. “The signals by which clothes 
mark position within a social hierarchy are growing fewer, simpler and less important. So maybe we can focus on 
beauty, fun and self-expression instead.”
Load-Date: September 9, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair ’s bond draws €4bn in orders as Covid fears swirl
Ryanair’s bond draws €4bn in orders as Covid fears swirl
 
FT.com
September 8, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 439 words
Byline: Nikou Asgari in London
Body
Ryanair has become the first big European airline to sell a bond since the start of the pandemic, as investors 
shrugged off concerns about  tightening travel restrictions in Europe.
The continent’s largest low-cost carrier sold €850m of five-year bonds on Tuesday at a yield of 3 per cent, after 
investors put in €4.4bn worth of orders.
Airlines have been hit hard this year by nationwide shutdowns, travel restrictions and social distancing measures 
imposed by governments to reduce the spread of coronavirus. On Monday, the UK government  added seven 
Greek islands to its quarantine list.
Mark Lynagh, co-head of Emea debt markets at BNP Paribas, who worked on the deal, said the bond sale was an 
“opportunistic refinancing exercise”, as Ryanair has an €850m bond due to be paid back next summer.
The deal underlined the hunger for yield from investors after drastic action from central banks this year cut interest 
rates to record lows. Ryanair’s is the first straight bond sale by a European carrier in that environment — but follows 
an issuance by Finnair, the Finnish airline, which last month raised €200m of  hybrid debt with a 10.25 per cent 
coupon in late August. 
One UK-based fund manager and investor in Ryanair said the Irish airline has “the best quality balance sheet” 
compared with its European peers, with €3.9bn of cash at the end of June. The investor added that a long-term 
decline in business travel does not present a threat to the group.
Ryanair ’s bond draws €4bn in orders as Covid fears swirl
The budget carrier has maintained its triple-B, investment-grade credit rating during the pandemic, unlike rival 
airlines such as British Airways which sank further into “junk” territory yesterday after Moody's downgraded its 
owner IAG to Ba2. The rating agency cited IAG’s high exposure to long-haul and corporate travel.
Tuesday’s bond sale by Ryanair followed a  €400m raising of equity last week. 
“In an environment where it’s all about liquidity, they are in a very solid position,” said a banker working on the bond 
deal.
Ryanair declined to comment.
The airline came  under fire this month for paying a €450,000 bonus to chief executive Michael O'Leary despite 
putting staff on furlough and taking £600m in government financial support.
Meanwhile, a resurgence of coronavirus cases across Europe has led Ryanair to  cut its flight numbers for the 
autumn months. The airline had hoped to run 70 per cent of its normal schedule in September, more than its main 
rival easyJet. 
“They'll always do well in a recession,” said Mr Lynagh of BNP Paribas, noting that Ryanair has lots of domestic 
routes that would be unaffected by new or existing restrictions on international travel.
Load-Date: September 8, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair poised for clash with investors over executive pay
Ryanair poised for clash with investors over executive pay
 
FT.com
September 4, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 651 words
Byline: Attracta Mooney and Philip Georgiadis in London
Body
Ryanair is poised for a clash with investors this month after the airline was criticised for paying out a €450,000 
bonus to chief executive Michael O’Leary despite furloughing staff and taking government pandemic support.
Institutional Shareholder Services, an influential adviser, recommended investors vote against the company’s non-
binding pay report at Ryanair’s annual meeting on September 17. 
The world’s largest proxy adviser said it was “difficult to justify” the bonus payout, which was about 92 per cent of 
the maximum Mr O’Leary could have received, given the “upheaval” faced by the airline industry. 
“This payment raises concerns, given the current uncertainties facing the company and the airline industry, and in 
view of the broader stakeholder experience,” it said. 
Ryanair declined to comment. 
ISS’s stance is the latest sign that executive bonuses are becoming a flashpoint for investors concerned about how 
companies are reacting to the pandemic. 
Asset managers such as  M&G have warned that some corporate bosses are not sharing the pain and are enjoying 
large payouts, despite businesses furloughing staff and cutting dividends. 
The scrutiny over executive pay comes as European airlines have outlined plans to cut thousands of staff to cope 
with reduced passenger numbers. 
Ryanair poised for clash with investors over executive pay
Industry bodies and executives do not expect a return to pre-pandemic passenger numbers until 2024 at the 
earliest.
Mr O’Leary’s bonus of €458,000 was for the year up to the end of March 2020. His base pay for 2021 will be  cut by 
half to €250,000. 
But ISS said: “The effects of the pandemic were being felt prior to the bonus for [fiscal year] 2020 being finalised 
and there was ample opportunity to reduce or defer the payment in light of the obvious looming challenges facing 
the company.”
Ryanair suffered a loss of €185m in the three months to the end of June as 99 per cent of its flights were grounded. 
“The past quarter was the most challenging in Ryanair’s 35-year history,” the carrier declared when it reported the 
results in July.  
The budget carrier has also used government support under the Job Retention Scheme and drew down £600m 
under the Covid Corporate Financing Facility provided by the Bank of England, ISS said. 
Peter Reilly, senior director of corporate governance at FTI Consulting, which advises companies, said investors 
were increasingly demanding boards take into account wider stakeholders, such as employees, when making key 
decisions over issues such as pay. 
He added: “In 2020, it is more evident than ever that shareholders are using remuneration as a window into whether 
that [focus on stakeholders] is in fact taking place, a trend that will be equally pronounced in 2021.”
Despite criticism from ISS, Glass Lewis, the world’s second-largest proxy adviser, recommended shareholders vote 
in favour of the group’s pay policy. Pirc, a UK-based proxy adviser, advised shareholders to abstain on the 
remuneration report. 
Earlier this week,  ISS criticised British Airways owner IAG’s decision to award outgoing chief executive Willie 
Walsh a bonus of more than £800,000.
The adviser drew attention to IAG's use of government support measures including the Bank of England’s Covid 
Corporate Financing Facility.
Last year, Mr O’Leary agreed to a new five-year contract, with a 50 per cent cut in base salary from €1m. But the 
contract also included 10m in share options, which proved controversial.  
The decision sparked a significant  protest at Ryanair’s annual meeting, with almost half of shareholders voting 
against the company’s pay report. 
Since then, the airline said it had spoken to big investors, but ISS criticised the group for giving “no indication of 
how it had responded to shareholder concerns”. 
Separately, Ryanair announced it had successfully bolstered its balance sheet by tapping investors for a €400m 
share placing as it navigates the disruption caused by the pandemic.
Load-Date: September 4, 2020
End of Document
City Bulletin: Watchdog launches action over potential mis-selling of homes
City Bulletin: Watchdog launches action over potential mis-selling of homes
 
FT.com
September 4, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 723 words
Byline:  Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
The competition watchdog has four of the UK’s largest housebuilders in its sights over their sales of leasehold 
homes — where buyers have ended up paying huge sums in ground rents or to buy the freehold for their home later 
on. 
The Competition and Markets Authority said on Friday morning it was  launching enforcement action involving 
Barratt Developments, Countryside Properties, Persimmon and Taylor Wimpey. 
The CMA said it had uncovered “troubling evidence of potentially unfair terms” linked to ground rents in leasehold 
contracts and “potential mis-selling”. It has raised concerns over buyers being misled about the availability of 
freehold homes and about the cost of buying the freehold down the line. 
It also flagged worries about developers using pressure tactics to rush people into buying homes. The CMA said it 
would be looking into the issues further, and added that the developers named hadn’t necessarily been involved in 
all (or any) of the practices it was concerned about. 
Briefly
Ryanair has tapped the equity markets for €400m via a placing to strengthen its balance sheet and fund expansion. 
The Irish airline is regarded as one of the strongest in the sector thanks to a low cost base. Rival IAG, which owns 
British Airways, launched a €2.75bn rights issue last month while easyJet raised around £420m in June. 
City Bulletin: Watchdog launches action over potential mis-selling of homes
Berkeley, another big housebuilder, said trading had been resilient over the first four months of its financial year. 
The high-end housebuilder said it still expects to make £500m in pre-tax profit during this financial year, which runs 
to April 2021, with better than expected production levels and sales pricing. 
Rishi Sunak will  rebuff calls from the City for a state-owned body to refinance billions of pounds of emergency 
loans to companies. The government guaranteed bounceback loans and coronavirus business interruption loans 
made by banks, but banks are worried about pursuing thousands of borrowers through the courts if and when they 
default. The City came up with a plan to support troubled borrowers instead, but Mr Sunak is reportedly not 
convinced the issue is a pressing one at the moment. 
British Gas has bought the energy supply customers of challenger group Robin Hood Energy for an undisclosed 
sum. Robin Hood is the latest challenger supplier to exit the market, which saw a huge number of new entrants join 
in recent years to take on the Big Six. The boss of Centrica, which owns British Gas, said the group was “focused 
on returning to profitable growth in our core markets” as he tries to turn around the company’s fortunes. 
Beyond the Square Mile 
Chinese stocks have followed their US peers and  tumbled overnight. The Nasdaq on Thursday suffered  its biggest 
fall since June, led by Apple which lost 8 per cent of its value. Amazon, Alphabet and Microsoft all fell more than 
4 per cent as the rally, which began in the depths of the crisis, ran out of steam. Meanwhile, US executives  cashed 
in stock worth $6.7bn last month, the biggest burst of selling in five years. Our US west coast Editor Richard Waters 
analyses what the re-rating means for the tech sector in his  latest column.
Yum China, which operates KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco bell restaurants in China, is planning  to raise more than 
$2bn via a secondary offering in Hong Kong. Yum China is the latest big-ticket Chinese company with a listing in 
the US to price shares in Hong Kong as tensions between Beijing and Washington reach their worst state in 
decades.
Daniel Kamensky, the hedge fund manager at the centre of  the Neiman Marcus bankruptcy, has been  arrested 
and charged with fraud, extortion and obstruction of justice for allegedly attempting to subvert a rival’s bid for one of 
the retailer’s most valuable assets. The Marble Ridge founder faces a potential prison term if convicted. 
Essential comment before you go
Merryn Somerset Webb It did not immediately occur to me how tricky it would be to replace our family rabbit, 
which died last week. But it was and this might tell a story about how inflation  is building in the economy. Supply 
shortages are biting.
Lombard GKN, the aerospace and automotive group, is turning out to be an unexpectedly  sour acquisition for 
turnround group Melrose to digest.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here. 
Load-Date: September 4, 2020
End of Document
Letter: Scrambling jets is wasteful in an era of defence cuts
Letter: Scrambling jets is wasteful in an era of defence cuts
 
FT.com
September 2, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 122 words
Body
For the third time this year RAF jet interceptors were sent into the air, for something that they could do nothing 
whatsoever about, namely an “incident” aboard a Ryanair flight to Stansted at the end of last month.
The Ministry of Defence may just as well have launched a submarine or ordered all employees whose name began 
with “R” to dance on one leg singing “Old Mother Hubbard” in Cantonese, as equally effective measures, the latter 
being, of course, somewhat cheaper.
In this era of chronic defence cuts, this asinine behaviour has to be answered for.
Nicky Samengo-Turner Brockworth, Gloucestershire, UK
Letter in response to this letter:
 A whimsical analysis of one defence deployment / From Dominic Brittain, Hooke, Dorset, UK
Load-Date: September 7, 2020
End of Document
Airline analysts warn ‘the hardest part’ is yet to come
Airline analysts warn ‘the hardest part’ is yet to come
 
FT.com
August 29, 2020 Saturday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 454 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Airlines are struggling through their worst crisis since the first commercial service began flying passengers just over 
100 years ago.
In the past week alone, US carrier American Airlines said it would cut 19,000 jobs, Australian airline  Qantas 
announced it would shed thousands more jobs and  Norwegian Air Shuttle warned it needed another rescue 
package — only months after securing a bailout.  
Analysts warn worse is yet to come as the prospect of second waves of infection and tough government rules on 
quarantine cripple airlines’ ability to forecast demand. The uncertainty is jarring to an industry that thrives on being 
able to predict long-term passenger demand with mathematical precision and adjust its schedules accordingly.
“You are getting airlines going from zero to 70 per cent capacity in the blink of an eye then having to ramp back 
down,” said Mark Manduca, an aviation analyst at Citi.
Domestic passenger numbers in some markets have slowly started to recover from lockdown lows, especially in 
Asia. Air travel in China has fully returned from its pre-Covid-19 levels, with about 15m seats scheduled in the week 
to August 30, illustrating the pace of the country’s economic rebound. 
Japan too has resumed normal service. Domestic travel is not subject to the same level of restrictions as cross-
border flights, leaving it well positioned to lead any recovery, analysts at Moody’s said this week.
Airline analysts warn ‘the hardest part’ is yet to come
Yet international travel remains adrift, with many markets operating well below the levels they enjoyed before the 
pandemic. The US has scheduled only a fifth of the seats used at the start of the year, while Vietnam — after a new 
coronavirus outbreak — has reduced capacity by 90 per cent.
This is a particularly thorny issue for Europe’s airlines as they have the challenge of navigating a patchwork of 
government regulations, including quarantine restrictions in its main markets.
“Europe’s legacy carriers have the challenge of rebuilding both demand against a backdrop of damaged consumer 
confidence and sudden knee-jerk travel restrictions. In addition, low-cost airlines face the threat of travellers opting 
for private cars which for many is seen as safer and more flexible,” says John Grant of OAG, the aviation 
consultancy. 
 Ryanair has reduced its flight schedule for September and October, blaming a resurgence of virus cases in some 
parts of Europe for a “notable” weakening in forward bookings.
For the moment airlines fortunes are hanging in the balance. 
“This hybrid world we are living in is actually the most painful,” Mr Manduca said. “When you put costs into place 
and you have to unwind the business again and bring certain routes into hibernation is the moment when you get 
the worst cash burn.”
Load-Date: March 22, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair cuts autumn capacity after European Covid-19 cases spike
Ryanair cuts autumn capacity after European Covid-19 cases spike
 
FT.com
August 17, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 565 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis
Body
Ryanair has slashed its flight schedule for the coming months after Europe’s largest low-cost carrier warned 
bookings had “noticeably weakened” following a rise in coronavirus cases across many parts of Europe.
The resurgence of the virus is deepening the crisis facing the travel industry, as  new government restrictions dash 
any hopes of a late-summer revival in tourism.
“Forward bookings have notably weakened over the last 10 days, given uncertainty over recent Covid case rates in 
some EU countries,” said Ryanair on Monday.
In response, the airline will reduce the number of passengers it carries by 20 per cent in September and October. 
The cuts will focus on countries that have seen worsening outbreaks, including France and Spain, and will mainly 
come from flying fewer planes on its network rather than eliminating routes altogether. 
Ryanair had previously guided that it hoped to run 70 per cent of its normal schedule in September, more than 
some low-cost rivals including easyJet.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive, has said that a second wave of Covid-19 infections in the autumn is his  biggest 
worry, and the disruption to his airline’s business has come even sooner than feared.
Last month he cautioned that further disruption could lead to more pay cuts and job losses, after the airline fell to a 
loss in the three months to the end of June. The carrier has said it plans to axe up to 3,000 jobs. 
Ryanair cuts autumn capacity after European Covid-19 cases spike
However, analysts believe Ryanair is well placed to ride out the storm facing the sector given it typically operates 
from lower-cost airports and its finances are in better shape than some rivals. The airline had more than €3.9bn in 
cash at the end of June.
Shares in Ryanair led European airlines lower following the news, falling nearly 5 per cent. 
EasyJet on Monday also confirmed that it will close three of its UK hubs as part of  plans to cut its workforce by 30 
per cent. The airline will close its bases but still fly a scaled down schedule from London Stansted and Newcastle, 
and entirely pull out of London Southend, the Essex airport it helped put on to the map over the past decade. 
EasyJet’s chief executive said the UK government’s quarantine measures had “compounded” the lack of demand 
for seats. 
“We have had to take the very difficult decision to close three UK bases as a result of the unprecedented impact of 
the pandemic and related travel restrictions,” Johan Lundgren said. 
The decision puts 670 jobs at risk, although easyJet said it hoped to “significantly” reduce the number of 
compulsory redundancies through measures including base transfers.
The disruption to air travel came as one of the leading cross-channel ferry operators said it could cut its number of 
crossings following the  introduction of quarantine rules for anyone entering the UK from France. 
The chief executive of Brittany Ferries, which operates 12 ships between France, the UK, Ireland and Spain, said 
he was facing “tough decisions” on which routes to run.
“Unfortunately, weak forward demand for the autumn means we may have to make some tough decisions about 
which services we run and which we don’t in the months to come. That is the reality of our difficult decisions,” said 
Christophe Mathieu.
The ferry company, which has called on France to avoid reciprocal quarantine measures on British tourists, said 
35,000 passengers either cancelled or changed reservations over the weekend.
Load-Date: August 17, 2020
End of Document
EasyJet /European airlines: capital pains
EasyJet/European airlines: capital pains
 
FT.com
August 14, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 355 words
Body
Should you travel? Will you? Without a yes to both questions airlines such as easyJet cannot expect any 
improvement to their dire financial situation. Further UK quarantine measures, now extended to France, will make 
life more difficult. This explains easyJet’s announcement on Friday to complete the second of two  sale and 
leaseback transactions to raise a total of £608m.
Shareholders will be happy that easyJet did not dilute its stock further with another equity offering. But these latest 
leases do add more debt to its balance sheet. That added debt reduces manoeuvrability on fares for the months 
ahead. Still, it has a better position than many of its peers.
Of nearly 90 sizeable airlines in the world, only four earn an investment grade from rating agencies; easyJet is one 
of them. In Europe, both Ryanair and Wizz Air have stronger financial positions when measured by the proportion of 
net debt to enterprise value. For Ryanair and Wizz Air this proportion is less than a fifth, according to estimates 
from brokers Davy. EasyJet’s is higher at about a third, but much better than Air France-KLM at 78 per cent, or 
Norwegian’s 94 per cent. 
That tells a story. Most European airlines will not be able to fight for market share using cheap fares this year. 
Debts must be serviced. At least intra-European air travel volumes have improved. Flight traffic for easyJet and 
Ryanair jumped by more than half in the first two weeks of August compared with the previous two weeks, 
according to Eurocontrol. 
The profitable north Atlantic route is up by a fraction of that. Bad news for flag carriers such as International Airline 
Group’s British Airways. IAG plans  emergency fundraising, expected to double its shares outstanding.
EasyJet /European airlines: capital pains
European airlines have turned off internal algorithms balancing fares with demand. Price elasticity is not there and 
customers do not respond to discounting. When they do, capacity will come back quickly. Profitability will remain a 
long-haul destination for this industry for some time to come.
Our popular newsletter for premium subscribers Best of Lex is published twice weekly. Please sign up  here.
Load-Date: August 14, 2020
End of Document
UK holidaymakers scramble to leave France before quarantine
UK holidaymakers scramble to leave France before quarantine
 
FT.com
August 14, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1070 words
Byline: Alice Hancock, Philip Georgiadis and Laura Hughes in London and Victor Mallet in Paris
Body
British holidaymakers in France scrambled on Friday to return to the UK before a newly imposed quarantine comes 
into effect following a rise in coronavirus infections.
The exodus came after Downing Street  announced on Thursday evening that travellers coming from France, the 
Netherlands, Monaco, Malta, the Turks and Caicos Islands and Aruba would have to self-isolate on arrival in the UK 
after sharp increases in Covid-19 cases in those countries.
Ministers had originally intended to impose the quarantine measures from 4am on Sunday but agreed to introduce 
them a day earlier following demands from Scotland and Wales during a meeting with the devolved nations on 
Thursday.
Data from France over the past week have shown a 66 per cent surge in newly reported cases, while the 
Netherlands was up 52 per cent. 
France is the second most popular holiday destination for Britons after Spain, attracting 10.3m visits in 2019, 
according to the government. Some 160,000 UK tourists were estimated to be in France on Thursday and many of 
the 300,000 French citizens who live in the UK were also thought to have returned home.
The French government said it regretted the British move and would impose reciprocal measures on travellers 
arriving in France from the UK, although it did not specify when they would start. 
UK holidaymakers scramble to leave France before quarantine
Adele Armstrong, 37, who works in the City of London, said she had spent €1,000 changing flights to return from 
Brittany on Friday, rather than Sunday as planned, because she and her daughter, partner and his two sons were 
due to go on another holiday to Scotland on Monday. They would have been forced to cancel if they had been 
quarantined.
“As soon as we heard the news, we went on the Ryanair website to change the flights . . . I could see the seats 
disappearing before my eyes,” said Ms Armstrong who was visiting her mother, who lives in Brittany, for the first 
time in seven months. “We tried a computer and two phones and I think managed to get the last seats on the 
plane.”
Amelie, an investment banker who had been working and holidaying in Poitiers with her husband, said that after 
hearing the news at midnight on Thursday, the only two available Eurotunnel bookings were at 7am or 11.30am on 
Friday. 
As she and her husband both had to return to the UK to work for compliance reasons. They were forced to rush 
back and leave behind their children, who were staying with grandparents in another part of France.
“The motorway was full but every other car had a British plate,” she said.
Veronique Michaud, the owner of the three-star Hotel Champs Fleurs in the popular Alpine village of Morzine, said 
some British families had cut short their stays and left in a frenzy on Friday morning. She added that she had 
received several cancellations for bookings this weekend and next week.
Some travellers decided to leave their cars behind in French resorts and fly back after all available ferries and trains 
were booked. Others could not afford to return.
“I suspected, as everyone did, that the UK government would impose a quarantine on France as it was on the cards 
since earlier this week, so I really should have booked an earlier flight, but I didn’t,” said Tim Crombie, a self-
employed artist, in the French port city of Marseille. “I've tried to book a flight now but it would cost over €600.”
Eurotunnel, which runs car-carrying services through the Channel tunnel, said it had laid on extra staff to handle the 
“huge amount” of inquiries. Shortly after the government announcement was made, travellers reported more than 
4,500 people on Eurotunnel’s website. 
Kasper Moos, head of UK routes for DFDS, which runs ferry services to France and Holland, said there was not 
enough space on their ships to cope with the demand, even though they had added more crossings.
“We are running out of slots for the weekend,” he said. “We can throw in as much capacity as possible but there is a 
limit”. 
Grant Shapps, the UK transport secretary, told the BBC on Friday morning that people knew that there was a 
“significant risk” if they were travelling abroad. 
He also warned that Britons would be “breaking the law” if they failed to quarantine for 14 days on their return. 
Travellers arriving this week from Spain and Belgium, both of which had previously been removed from the “safe 
corridors” list, reported a mixed picture on quarantine enforcement. 
Most reported being told to fill in forms detailing where they would isolate, but added that checks on whether they 
had complied were lax or non-existent. 
Shares in big listed airlines tumbled on Friday as Airlines UK, the trade body for UK-registered airlines, called the 
quarantine “another devastating blow”. EasyJet led the declines, falling 6.5 per cent. Air France-KLM lost just under 
6 per cent and British Airways owner IAG slipped around 5 per cent.
UK holidaymakers scramble to leave France before quarantine
Officials in Paris said they expected the French requirements on British visitors to be the same as the “voluntary” 
self-quarantine applied the last time the UK imposed quarantines on people coming across the Channel. 
“We regret the British decision, which will lead to reciprocal measures,” Clément Beaune, France’s Europe minister,  
wrote on Twitter.
Natacha Bouchart, mayor of Calais, called the British decision “another aggressive measure”. She told Francinfo 
radio: “One gets the impression the British government is panicking. I would have preferred that they require 
testing on departure and arrival.” 
Officials in London said ministers had backed down on their preference to introduce the quarantine on Sunday to 
ensure all UK nations acted in "unison" and to remove any confusion for travellers returning to different parts of the 
UK. 
"In order to get the announcement and give people the maximum time, we agreed to do it", said one official. 
The quarantine could also significantly affect companies that serve incoming tourists to the UK.
“France and the Netherlands are crucial markets for the UK and both in the top 10 for spend and visits. We had only 
recently heard reports that these two markets had started a slow recovery — this obviously ends that,” said Joss 
Croft, chief executive of the trade body UKInbound. “Normally solvent and sturdy businesses now face a bleak 
future.” 
France is the second-largest source market for tourists into the UK after the US, accounting for £1.5bn worth of 
spending, according to the UK Tourism Alliance.
Additional reporting by Robert Wright and Anna Gross
Load-Date: August 14, 2020
End of Document
Travellers from France added to UK quarantine list
Travellers from France added to UK quarantine list
 
FT.com
August 14, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 830 words
Byline: George Parker, Political Editor and Laura Hughes
Body
Boris Johnson on Thursday night dealt a blow to the holiday plans of hundreds of thousands of Britons when he 
ordered that France be added to Britain’s quarantine list from Saturday.
The move is expected to trigger a stampede by British holidaymakers in France for Channel ports and Eurostar 
services before the new quarantine restrictions take effect at 4am on Saturday.
Travellers arriving from the Netherlands, Monaco, Turks & Caicos and Aruba will also have to self-isolate for 14 
days, in a move announced by Downing Street just before 10pm on Thursday.
France has indicated that it would retaliate by ordering a voluntary quarantine regime for Britons arriving in France, 
confirming that Covid-19 will have a serious impact on travel between the two countries.
Travel industry companies were among the worst performers across European markets on Friday in reaction. 
Shares in Tui, easyJet and British Airways’ parent International Airlines Group fell more than 6 per cent, while those 
in Ryanair dropped 5 per cent. 
Europe's Stoxx 600 index fell 1.8 per cent in morning dealings, with the CAC 40 in Paris down 2.2 per cent and 
London's FTSE 100 off 2.3 per cent. 
Strategists said the UK decision added to concerns that the recent rise in cases across Europe would snuff out the 
still-fragile economic recovery.    
Travellers from France added to UK quarantine list
Grant Shapps, transport secretary, said he expected 160,000 British holidaymakers returning from France would be 
affected by the new quarantine rules. 
He also suggested that any country recording above 20 cases per 100,000 people over a seven-day period could 
trigger the introduction of quarantine measures. 
“With France and these other countries, Netherlands and elsewhere, the numbers have now just gone above the 
threshold, which is about 20 cases per 100,000, but measured on a seven-day rolling average,” he told BBC Radio 
4's Today programme.
Mr Shapps insisted that travellers were aware of the risks of travelling over the summer and dismissed calls for 
those now unable to return to work to receive compensation. 
“People this year will have gone away knowing that there was a significant risk, and because of that people will 
have gone with their eyes open,” he said. 
On Wednesday, the mood in Whitehall was that France would only be put on a “watch list”, but that changed on 
Thursday as new coronavirus data arrived from Paris.
Whitehall officials say the decision to move swiftly was also driven in part by demands from the devolved 
administrations in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland for immediate action.
Data from France over the past week have shown a 66 per cent increase in newly reported cases and a 52 per cent 
increase in the weekly incidence rate per 100,000 population.  
On a visit to Northern Ireland earlier on Thursday, Mr Johnson said: “We have got to be absolutely ruthless about 
this, even with our closest and dearest friends and partners. I think everybody understands that. 
“We will be looking at the data a bit later on this afternoon — looking exactly where France and other countries are 
getting to.”
The number of daily infections confirmed by tests in France was 2,669 in the past 24 hours — the fourth time in a 
week that it had exceeded 2,000 — setting a new post-lockdown record.
The country’s cumulative total of cases now stands at 209,365 and the seven-day rolling average of new infections 
has increased to 1,962, a level not seen since the end of April.
“We can't be remotely complacent about our own situation,” Mr Johnson said. “Everybody understands that in a 
pandemic you don't allow our population to be reinfected or the disease to come back in.
“That is why the quarantine measures are very important and we have to apply them in a very strict way.”
France’s cumulative 14-day total of Covid-19 cases stands at 32.1 per 100,000; in the Netherlands that figure is 
40.2 and Malta 74.8. The UK’s figure by comparison is 18.5.
Britain’s quarantine rules require anyone travelling to Britain from  a “non-exempt” country — those designated as 
having higher Covid-19 rates — to self-isolate for 14 days.
The Foreign Office has also updated its travel advice to advise against all but essential travel to France, Monaco, 
the Netherlands, Malta, Turks & Caicos and Aruba.  
Tim Alderslade, chief executive of Airlines UK, called the move “another devastating blow to the travel industry” and 
urged the government to use airport testing and a more targeted “subnational approach” to avoid the repeated 
introduction of national quarantine restrictions.
Mr Shapps warned Britons would be “breaking the law” if they fail to quarantine for 14 days on their return. 
Travellers from France added to UK quarantine list
“You may well find that people call up to check where you are, and you’ll be breaking the law if you were not 
quarantining,” he told BBC Breakfast on Friday morning.
“We've worked so hard in this country to get our level of infections down, the last thing we want do is to have people 
returning and bringing the infection with them. It's to protect everybody,” he said. 
Load-Date: August 14, 2020
End of Document
On the cusp of a record, the S&P 500 won’t budge
On the cusp of a record, the S&P 500 won’t budge
 
FT.com
August 14, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 838 words
Byline: Colby Smith in New York, Harry Dempsey in London and Hudson Lockett in Hong Kong
Body
US stocks narrowly missed reaching an all-time high this week, as investors were held back by tighter travel 
restrictions in Europe and the absence of any progress towards further stimulus for the world’s largest economy.
The S&P 500 closed 0.02 per cent lower on Friday, weighed down by big technology companies in particular. The 
tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite was down 0.21 per cent.
While the benchmark US equity index was positive for the week, it was unable to break out of a very narrow trading 
range, as investors demurred from making big directional bets. The S&P 500 has been within a whisker of a record 
high for days.
Investors cited a stalling out of the tech rally as one force holding back the broader market. 
“Much of the market’s rise since the late March trough has been driven by a handful of tech darlings,” said David 
Nadel, senior equity portfolio manager at Invesco. “Take those out of the equation, and actually the market’s 
recovery has been far less definitive. Not exactly anaemic, but not nearly as robust as it looks with those tech 
leaders included.”
According to Jack Janasiewicz, a portfolio manager at Natixis Investment Managers, there remains “a lot of 
trepidation and uncertainty” among investors about the outlook for the economy.
“Fundamentally, there are a lot of reasons why you can make the case that there is no reason for the market to be 
pushing all-time highs,” he said.
On the cusp of a record, the S&P 500 won’t budge
In Europe, the continent-wide equity benchmark, the Stoxx 600, fell 1.2 per cent, with stocks linked to tourism 
among the biggest losers. London’s FTSE 100 shed 1.6 per cent and the CAC 40 in Paris dropped 1.6 per cent, 
while Frankfurt’s Xetra Dax slipped 0.7 per cent.
The UK said late on Thursday that  travellers returning from France and the Netherlands would have to go into 14-
day quarantine from this weekend. Paris is expected to follow suit with reciprocal requirements. 
Airlines were hit hard. Shares in easyJet and Tui fell about 7 per cent, while those in Ryanair and British Airways’ 
parent International Airlines Group dropped by more than 5 per cent.
Strategists said the UK decision added to concerns that the recent rise in coronavirus cases across Europe could 
snuff out the still-fragile economic recovery in the region.  
“The second wave is already happening,” said Art Baluszynski, head of research at Henderson Rowe. “There is 
definitely a risk of Europe going into lockdown, or at least some measures that could inhibit the economy bouncing 
back.”
US Treasuries rose on Friday, paring losses from earlier in the week, when a flood of new supply was hitting the 
market. The yield on the US-10 year Treasury note fell 0.02 percentage points to 0.7 per cent. Prices rise when 
yields fall.
Long-dated yields had moved higher following a record  $26bn auction of 30-year bonds that saw muted demand. 
Concerns have grown about the enormous auction sizes planned by the Treasury department to fund the historic 
stimulus programmes passed by US legislators since March, but investors feel confident there is sufficient appetite 
for safe assets like US government debt.
“There is always demand,” said Anwiti Bahuguna, head of multi-asset strategy at Columbia Threadneedle. “It is 
something that central bankers buy, asset managers buy and insurers buy.”
Moreover, she said she felt confident the Fed was playing close attention to any destabilising movement in yields 
and would act accordingly to ensure borrowing costs remain low.
The dollar fell 0.3 per cent against a basket of half a dozen currencies after US retail sales climbed for a third 
month, but at a slower pace. 
Traders are worried about the lack of urgency in talks between the White House and Congress over a new support 
package for millions of Americans left unemployed by Covid-19. The number of new US unemployment claims this 
week was lower than expected, and the congressional summer recess means agreement might not come until next 
month. 
“The biggest swing factor is what’s going to happen on the fiscal side,” said Elizabeth Geoghegan, fixed income 
portfolio manager at Mediolanum.
Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic speaker of the House of Representatives, doused optimism on a breakthrough late 
on Thursday when she said that no progress had been made towards a deal and no further meetings with 
Republicans had been scheduled.
Chinese stocks were the best performers in the Asia-Pacific region, despite economic data for July that came in 
below expectations. 
Mainland China’s CSI 300 index rose 1.5 per cent following news that retail sales in the country had dropped 1.1 
per cent year on year, the seventh straight month of declines, versus predictions for a 0.1 per cent rise. 
Yu Song, chief China economist at Goldman Sachs, said the latest flurry of data raised the prospect that Beijing 
would hold its position on stimulus measures as economic activity in the country stabilises.
On the cusp of a record, the S&P 500 won’t budge
Investors will turn their attention to a meeting between US and Chinese officials over the weekend to review the 
progress made on their “phase one” trade agreement.
Load-Date: August 14, 2020
End of Document
Travel industry hit hard by new restrictions
Travel industry hit hard by new restrictions
 
FT.com
August 14, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1182 words
Byline: Darren Dodd
Body
Your level-headed briefing on how the coronavirus epidemic is affecting the markets, global business, our 
workplaces and daily lives, with expert input from our reporters and specialists across the globe.
For updates visit our  live blog. Please send your reactions and suggestions to . We would like to hear from you.
The FT is offering a free 30-day trial to Coronavirus Business Update, which includes access to FT.com. Please 
spread the word by forwarding this newsletter to friends and colleagues who you think would find it valuable. And if 
this has been forwarded to you, hello. Please sign up  here.
Latest news
•
US industrial production grew at a slower pace in July but advanced for a third straight month, as factories 
increased output after coronavirus shutdowns 
•
Local lockdowns in northern England will stay in place after evidence showed there has been no decrease 
in coronavirus infection rates
•
Italy registered 574 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, the highest since May 28 (Bloomberg)
Travel sector reels
“Another devastating blow to the travel industry” was how Tim Alderslade, chief executive of Airlines UK, described 
Britain’s decision last night to extend  quarantine restrictions to passengers arriving from France and the 
Netherlands.
Travel industry hit hard by new restrictions
 Investors seemed to agree. Shares in easyJet, Ryanair, Air France-KLM and British Airways’ parent International 
Airlines Group all tumbled, as did those of Tui, the tour operator. 
The UK move, which caused a  scramble by British holidaymakers to get back across the Channel today, caps a 
grim few days for the travel industry as fears grew that new surges in infections could snuff out hopes of a business 
bounceback.  
 Tui, which employs about 70,000 people and runs 400 hotels and 150 aircraft, revealed a net loss of more than 
€2bn this year. It expects “normalised levels of business” from 2022 — based on the assumption that long-haul 
travel would return in 2021 and a coronavirus vaccine would be available “early next year”.
 National Express, which runs coach, school bus and rail services in eight countries, also went into loss. In normal 
times, almost a third of its revenue comes from its fleet of yellow buses ferrying children to North American schools, 
many of which have been shuttered.  
 Easyjet is one of many airlines desperately trying to shore up their finances. Hong Kong carrier  Cathay Pacific 
announced losses, as did  Thai Airways. Ancillary businesses such as  Swissport, the world’s biggest baggage 
handling group, have also been hit hard.
New restrictions to stem the spread of coronavirus, such as those put in place today in  France and  Spain, mean 
an already dismal outlook is turning even worse:  S&P now expects global air traffic to fall by up to 70 per cent this 
year, a decline much steeper than it had projected in May. 
Airlines will remain under pressure until either a coronavirus vaccine or treatment is found, the rating agency said — 
or until they find an appropriate way of operating under a “new normal”.
Markets
The International Energy Agency cut its forecasts for oil consumption this year and next, saying global demand 
would average  91.9m barrels a day in 2020 compared with 100m b/d last year. Oil companies in recent weeks 
have reported some of their worst quarterly results ever, taking large writedowns on assets.
New research showed 445 companies listed on the London Stock Exchange — including big names such as Royal 
Dutch Shell and Lloyds Bank — cut, suspended or cancelled dividend payments in the first half of this year as  
stricken companies held on to cash.
US finance editor Robert Armstrong explains how  low borrowing costs are driving the “everything rally”. 
Business
China said frozen chicken from Brazil — the world’s largest exporter of frozen poultry — had tested positive for 
coronavirus, setting off a  diplomatic spat. New Zealand is investigating whether its first infection in more than 100 
days could also have come from imported frozen goods.
Strong investor enthusiasm for vaccine stocks was illustrated by the market debut of China’s CanSino Biologics 
and looks set to continue with the IPO of Germany’s CureVac. A vaccine is “the most discussed topic by far across 
the investor community”, said one banker. “It’s like saying ‘www.’ in 2000.”
Carlsberg became the first of the big brewers to reinstate financial guidance since the start of the pandemic. It said 
underlying operating profits would drop up to 15 per cent in 2020, after an 8.9 per cent fall in the first half, as it 
warned of  renewed lockdowns in its biggest market of China.
Global economy
A record  5m jobs were lost in Europe in the second quarter, underlining the damage done to the economy by the 
pandemic. In the US, new applications for unemployment benefits fell below 1m for the first time since mid-March 
as employers  resumed hiring.
Travel industry hit hard by new restrictions
Struggling city centres need more government help, writes London mayor Sadiq Khan in the FT. More must be 
done to reduce the  fear of infection, and the business rates holiday for retail, hospitality and leisure should be 
extended, he says. UK restaurants are worried for their future once the government’s  “Eat out to help out” subsidy 
ends.
Turkey’s finance minister dropped his previous forecast of growth and said the  country’s economy could shrink by 
up to 2 per cent this year, compared with IMF and World Bank forecasts of 5 per cent and 3.8 per cent. Its  current 
account deficit widened in June as tourists stayed away. 
Readers respond
Manticore comments on  I have been laid off — how do I get a job amid the current crisis?
Ask a friend. You are, of course, now one of thousands in the same position. It might be nice to think you can 
get ahead by showing commitment, demonstrating expertise and all that — but actually, this is meat-grinder 
time and none of that matters as much as anyone thought in February. If there are any jobs to be had, the 
people within organisations will know about them. Companies are still setting up divisions or changing 
businesses, so there are opportunities but don't kid yourself: 'career planning' is for the good times, not now.
Get in touch 
How is your workplace dealing with the pandemic? And what do you think business and markets — and our daily 
lives — will look like after lockdown? Please tell us by emailing . We may publish your contribution in an upcoming 
newsletter. Thanks
The essentials
England is trying again with a contact tracing app. The app, being tested on the Isle of Wight and Newham in 
London, will use Bluetooth to  alert individuals if they have spent 15 minutes or more near someone who has tested 
positive for Covid-19.
Browse through our collection of  alternative indicators, from retail footfall to pollution levels to box office takings, in 
our global economic recovery tracker. 
Final thought
“In a matter of months, designers have been forced to rethink work conceived to tackle the problems of one era to 
solve the problems of another. The design industry is expected to improve lives, now more than ever.” House & 
Home editor Helen Barrett looks at visions of the  post-pandemic home.
Load-Date: August 14, 2020
End of Document
EasyJet to increase flights after passenger demand rises
EasyJet to increase flights after passenger demand rises
 
FT.com
August 4, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 516 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Sarah Provan
Body
EasyJet is increasing the number of flights over the summer following higher passenger demand despite concerns 
over a new surge of coronavirus infections across Europe. 
The low-cost airline plans to fly 40 per cent of last year’s capacity in the three months to the end of September, up 
from its previous forecast of 30 per cent. 
“We feel that demand is healthy,” said Johan Lundgren, chief executive at easyJet. “It’s strong in relative terms.”
Mr Lundgren’s optimistic note helped propel company shares 9 per cent higher to 551p by lunchtime on Tuesday. 
The airline’s stock has fallen about 60 per cent this year as holidaymakers have shunned air travel.
Shares rose despite third-quarter results that laid bare the intense strain caused by coronavirus on the industry. 
The FTSE 250 group generated just £7m in revenue for the quarter ending on June 30, a collapse of 99 per cent 
from the £1.8bn recorded during the same time in 2019. It operated 709 flights compared with 165,656 last year. 
The company’s move to boost capacity comes despite many carriers issuing more cautious outlooks as worries 
grow following fresh travel restrictions in light of a rising number of coronavirus cases in Europe. 
Last month, the UK government reimposed a 14-day quarantine restriction on travellers arriving from Spain after the 
country reported a rise in infections in some regions. 
EasyJet to increase flights after passenger demand rises
British Airways’ owner IAG last week  downgraded its passenger capacity outlook for the peak summer months to 
just 26 per cent of last year’s levels, compared with its previous plan to fly about 45 per cent. 
However, easyJet has been more cautious than some of its low-cost rivals over restoring flights. 
Ryanair plans to fly about 60 per cent of its capacity in August and 70 per cent in September. In July, the Irish 
budget carrier flew 40 per cent of its capacity with planes about 72 per cent full. In comparison, easyJet has 
enjoyed higher load factors, with its planes about 84 per cent full. 
While Mr Lundgren was happy about the higher than expected demand, he cautioned that the outlook remains 
uncertain, particularly going into the winter months, which are typically lossmaking for the industry even in normal 
times.
Ryanair last week warned over the  risk of a second wave of coronavirus this autumn. 
“We said early on we would only add lines of flying where we believe it’s going to generate a positive contribution to 
the company because we need to be absolutely clear that we are preserving our cash for as long as possible in the 
event there is a second wave of the pandemic that means there could be a grounding — either a partial grounding 
or even a full one,” said Mr Lundgren. 
EasyJet fell to a pre-tax loss of £325m in the third quarter compared with a £174m profit in the same period last 
year. Drastic cost cuts failed to offset the near total collapse in demand for air travel caused by the spread of Covid-
19. 
However, it reported that its operational cash burn was lower than the previously guided £30m to £40m per week. 
The total cash burn for the third quarter was £774m compared with an expected £1bn. 
Load-Date: August 4, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair’s O’Leary warns of more job losses in event of deepening crisis
Ryanair’s O’Leary warns of more job losses in event of deepening crisis
 
FT.com
July 27, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 455 words
Byline: Bethan Staton
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary warned on Monday of more pay cuts and job losses in the event of a 
second wave of coronavirus this autumn.
“We cannot rule out that there will not be further pay cuts and job losses if things get worse, not better,” he said.
“Our biggest fear is a second wave of Covid-19 cases across Europe [in late autumn when the annual flu season 
starts] and the way that governments will respond to or manage that.” 
Mr O’Leary’s warning came as the airline revealed the pandemic had already knocked it into a loss in its most 
recent quarter.
The budget carrier suffered a net loss of €185m in the three months to the end of June compared with a net profit of 
€243m in the same period in the previous year. 
“The past quarter was the most challenging in Ryanair’s 35-year history,” the carrier said in a statement. 
Over 99 per cent of flights were grounded and the number of passengers fell from 42m to 500,000 in April-June as 
the lockdown took hold. Revenue fell by almost €2.2bn, to €125m.
The results came as the government announced anyone returning from Spain would need to quarantine for 14 
days, a move the industry said could threaten any green shoots of recovery and dissuade consumers from booking 
flights. 
Ryanair’s O’Leary warns of more job losses in event of deepening crisis
Stephen Furlong, analyst at Davy Research, said the airline would likely need to respond to consequent falls in 
demand by reducing costs, including cutting back on routes. 
“The quarantine makes it very challenging. It just highlights the risk of a second wave,” he said. “All airlines can do 
is batten down the hatches, reduce cost base, and reduce scale.”
The fiscal Q1 losses came despite an 85 per cent reduction in costs, Ryanair said, including through redundancies 
and pay cuts. The carrier announced in May that it would cut up to 15 per cent of its workforce, warning it would 
take at least two years for a return to pre-Covid levels.
After restarting 40 per cent of its pre-Covid flights, across 90 per cent of its route network from July, the airline had 
planned to increase to 60 per cent of its normal schedule in August and 70 per cent in September. 
But it said it was one of the best placed airlines to both weather the storm and take advantage of opportunities 
thrown up by coronavirus. 
Ryanair’s “balance sheet is one of the strongest in the industry”, it said, with cost-cutting, cancelled share buybacks 
and the sale of some planes leaving the carrier with more than €3.9bn in cash at the end of June. Sector-wide 
challenges and a lower cost base could also allow Ryanair to take advantage of lower airport and aircraft costs. 
“The Ryanair Group will emerge from the Covid-19 crisis with a much lower cost base, which will be essential to 
fund lower fares,” the carrier said. 
Load-Date: July 28, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair has a few tricks left to see it through quarantine
Ryanair has a few tricks left to see it through quarantine
 
FT.com
July 27, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 787 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Magic Mike’s touch can only take Ryanair so far. 
Michael O’Leary’s airline posted decent results for a disastrous quarter on Monday. Shares fell anyway. The  UK 
government’s Saturday night surprise of a Spanish quarantine sent airline investors scrambling. Ryanair was one of 
the lucky ones: its shares dropped only about 4 per cent to IAG’s 6 per cent and easyJet’s 8 per cent. 
Spain is a setback for the industry, which was just getting back to business. Ryanair grounded 99 per cent of its 
flights for the three-and-a-half months to the end of June; in July it was back to running 40 per cent of its schedule. 
Flights between the UK and Spain made up about 8.5 per cent of Ryanair’s network last year, calculates analyst 
Stephen Furlong of Davy. At easyJet, Mr Furlong puts the figure closer to 11 per cent. 
Still, it is not the Spanish summer but an autumnal second wave that frightens Mike’s men most. Ryanair reckons it 
will run as many as 70 per cent of flights in September. Disruption after that may be more damaging. A spike in 
European coronavirus cases to coincide with flu season could mean more job cuts, Mr O’Leary warned. Passenger 
numbers might fall even further than the 60 per cent Ryanair is forecasting for the year to March 2021. 
Ryanair’s worst fear could well be realised. Even so, the airline looks among the least exposed in the industry. 
Monday’s quarterly earnings showed why. 
At a time when cash is king, Ryanair has oodles of the stuff. It had almost €4bn at the end of June, after borrowing 
€600m through the Bank of England’s bond buying scheme. Sector-leading cost control has also helped. Ryanair 
Ryanair has a few tricks left to see it through quarantine
trimmed costs 85 per cent in the three months to June. Not bad, even if revenues did fall further. Since its July 
restart, Ryanair is cash break-even or better. 
The carrier still has plenty of tricks to pull out of the bag. It has roughly €7bn worth of 737s it could borrow against. It 
can squeeze revenue-starved airports on fees, by promising growth in passenger numbers during a forthcoming 
period of industry-wide retrenchment. And it can beat up Boeing over the manufacturer’s much-delayed Max 
planes. Negotiations on both price and compensation are ongoing. 
This will undoubtedly be a damp squib of a year for airlines. Count on Mr O’Leary to put on a better show than 
most.
Non-Ascential travel
Peter Florence, the organiser of the Hay Festival, remarked a few months ago that the event was “the very opposite 
of social distancing”, Jonathan Eley writes.
“It’s all about being together, about contact and exchange,” he wrote in the Guardian.
The fintech geeks who flock to Money 20/20 or the advertising luvvies who attend Cannes Lions feel the same as 
the bookworms. It’s not so much the keynote address from Jack Dorsey or the fireside chat with Sheryl Sandberg 
that justifies the four-figure costs of attendance.
It’s that serendipitous encounter at the welcome drinks, or the chance to buttonhole a panellist on the sidelines.
Both events are on the roster of Ascential, a former division of publisher Emap that has gone through various 
guises over the past decade and whose enigmatic name gives few clues as to what it actually does.
Neither shindig took place during the first half and their absence contributed in large measure to a 74 per cent fall in 
events revenue. A “Lions Live” digital event did not recoup the shortfall.
There are plans to stage two Money 20/20 events — with caps on attendee numbers — in the autumn. Whether this 
will be possible depends on the virus being kept under control in Amsterdam and Las Vegas. 
The viability of the events also depends on companies being willing to spend thousands of dollars sending staff to 
industry jamborees, given that the eventual price might also include two weeks of self-isolation or a mini-outbreak in 
the office.
Luckily for Ascential, events account for only about a third of group revenue, less than the 65 per cent at rival 
Informa. The rest comes from entities with such enigmatic monikers as Flywheel, Yimian and Edge. 
These provide services such as ecommerce advice, price benchmarking and market intelligence and are not so 
dependent on face-to-face contact. Moreover, they are growing as brands scramble to sell more online. 
They may also explain why Ascential’s shares have fallen only 30 per cent so far this year. Rivals Euromoney and 
Informa are down two-fifths and half, respectively.
But the outperformance of Flywheel in particular comes at a price. Ascential warned of a £53m rise in deferred 
consideration for the 2018 acquisition — not far off the revenue generated by Cannes Lions last year, according to 
Peel Hunt. The attendees are not the only ones who miss those jollies to the Med.
Ryanair: Ascential: 
Load-Date: July 27, 2020
Ryanair has a few tricks left to see it through quarantine
End of Document
Tourism: working capital woes
Tourism: working capital woes
 
FT.com
July 27, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 487 words
Byline: Jamie Powell
Body
In case you hadn’t realised, it’s not been a good year to be a company involved in the legal movement of humans 
across borders.
Whether it’s cruises, airlines or hotel companies – across the board the entire travel sector has taken a serious 
beating. And the news, for those with customers in Europe at least, got even worse over the weekend.
The UK government, in the ad hoc manner we’ve grown accustomed to, decided that anyone in Spain – whether on 
holiday, business or visiting family – will have to quarantine for 14 days after their flight home over the Bay of 
Biscay.
Cue a  sell-off in the shares of travel companies Monday morning. At pixel time, low-cost carriers easyJet and 
Ryanair are off 11 and 5 per cent respectively, while package holiday specialists Tui and On The Beach are down 
12 and 4 per cent. To take a few examples.
The  FT story, of course, covers all the bases. So do read that first. But we thought it was worth noting an aspect to 
this story which you might not be familiar with if you don’t follow the tourism sector closely.
It boils down to one crucial word: cash.
We’re going to use Tui as our example, but this widely applies to any business that helps you to get some much 
needed holiday sun.
Tourism: working capital woes
In normal times, the cash cycle for these companies is highly seasonal. Money arrives during the flood of summer 
holiday bookings during the second quarter, with the balance peaking around midsummer. The company then 
proceeds to pay off its vendors – whether it be hotels, villa owners or airlines – with the cash in the autumn. 
Therefore the problem with coronavirus wasn’t just that it closed borders, but that it arrived right when travel 
companies expected to start collecting holiday payments. To double the pain not only did bookings not arrive, but 
those who had made them early, perhaps to save a few bob, began to ask for refunds. This, as you might imagine, 
put extreme pressure on company coffers.
Here’s how Tui illustrated this problem it in its latest  investor presentation from June:
The navy blue line? Normality. That dotted light blue line? The coronavirus reality.
You can see how Tui attempted to show how its cash flow might improve when the world began to reopen with 
three separate paths for its group cash position. The problem is now it looks more likely that we’re on the path of 
that final slight uptick in the dotted line, particularly for a company like Tui which earned 27 per cent of its revenues 
from tourism to Spain and the Canary Islands  in 2019.
So what next for the sector? Well if you ask FT Alphaville, in short notice there’ll probably be a few press releases 
about balance sheet strength, liquidity and all that guff, followed by another round of rights issues and/ or  
government support.
Investors betting on a swift return to normality, it seems, will have to wait a while longer.
Related Links:
 Tour operators are experiencing a run on deposits -- FT Alphaville
Load-Date: July 27, 2020
End of Document
Tourism industry reeling as hopes to save summer season are dashed
Tourism industry reeling as hopes to save summer season are dashed
 
FT.com
July 27, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 997 words
Byline: Alice Hancock and Bethan Staton in London
Body
Until this weekend the European tourism industry had high hopes of reclaiming at least a small portion of the crucial 
summer holiday season after months of lockdown.
Customer bookings had increased week-on-week as national borders began to open but on Monday hotel and 
travel groups faced an unexpected reality check.
Localised upticks of coronavirus cases in Spain pushed the UK government to advise against travel to the country 
and enforce a 14-day quarantine for any returning travellers.
Instead of boarding customers on to planes, companies found themselves in emergency talks with the UK and 
Spanish governments to try to agree local air corridors that would allow travel between less-affected regions.
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of low-cost carrier Ryanair, called the quarantine measures a “badly managed 
overreaction”, while Andrew Flintham, managing director of Tui UK & Ireland, said Tui was “strongly advising [the 
government] against the ‘one size fits all’ approach”.
José María Mañaricua, who owns the four-hotel Gloria Thalasso & Hotels chain in the Canary Islands, said he 
expected “lots of cancellations by all those people who can’t permit themselves the luxury of 14 days without 
working when they return”.
The travel and tourism industry has  suffered heavy losses from the near-total shutdown in international travel with 
fleets grounded and hotels forced to close. 
Tourism industry reeling as hopes to save summer season are dashed
“Salvaging the summer season was probably the sector’s big hope for recovery,” said Rob Griggs, policy director of 
the trade body Airlines UK, while the renewed uncertainty around the peak period threatened to make a “difficult 
winter” even more challenging.
Ryanair, which has previously said it will make up to 3,000 staff redundant, on Monday said traffic had fallen from 
42m passengers to 500,000 from April to June. British Airways has said it will cut up to 30 per cent of staff.
Tui, where 8,000 jobs will be cut, said over the weekend it would cancel trips to mainland Spain until August 9 and 
offer refunds or incentives to rebook.
“Many of our customers are still looking to get away this summer and our data show that they are booking within a 
week of departure,” Mr Flintham said, adding that bookings for Greece and Turkey increased over the weekend, as 
customers looked for alternative destinations to Spain.
Tui’s rival Jet2 is still operating flights and holidays to four mainland Spain locations, away from areas affected by 
increases in Covid-19 cases.
About 18m UK holidaymakers travel to Spain each year, the country’s largest source of tourists, making the 
problem of travel restrictions particularly acute.
Hotel occupancy levels on the popular Balearic Islands, which include Majorca and Ibiza, had crept up from about 
25 per cent in July to 34 per cent in August — a trend seen in resorts around the Mediterranean coast.
For travel companies hoping that some 2020 revenues could be salvaged, the short notice and sweeping approach 
of the UK government’s travel advice accompanied by warnings from the French government not to travel to parts 
of Spain came as a shock.
It was just six hours between the UK government announcing its advice against travel to Spain on Saturday and 
quarantine restrictions being imposed.
Simon Cooper, chief executive of the online travel company On The Beach, said: “Tour operators and airlines are 
not set up to cope with the pace at which the travel advice is evolving. It was only three weeks ago that these 
destinations reopened and now advice has changed and quarantine has been re-implemented. For operators this 
simply adds to the scale of the challenge.” 
Javier Arús, partner at the real estate fund Azora, which announced on Monday a  new €1.5bn investment fund 
targeting the European “sun and beach” hotel segment, said some Spanish hotels had just reopened “based on the 
expected UK business”.
Faced with local flare-ups for the foreseeable future, Gloria Guevara, president of the World Travel and Tourism 
Council, said countries needed to come up with a more nuanced approach. “Painting an entire country with the 
same brush does not benefit anyone,” she said. “While we understand the concern about destinations like Spain 
with new Covid-19 cases, the majority of the country and its islands, which are incredibly popular holiday 
destinations, have less cases than the UK.”
The WTTC has called for quarantines to be replaced with better test and trace systems and international travel 
protocols.
If not, it has warned that the $2tn European tourism industry could lose 80 per cent of its annual contribution to the 
economy with about four-fifths of jobs lost.
Operators catering to inbound travellers in the UK are also under pressure. Visitors from Spain accounted for nearly 
£1bn worth of spending in the UK last year with Spain the fifth-highest country in terms of visitor numbers.
Tourism industry reeling as hopes to save summer season are dashed
Joss Croft, chief executive of the trade body UKinbound, said the sector was “on its knees” and that he feared the 
impact on other countries. “When people around the world see [the restrictions], it will put off travellers from other 
key European markets who will worry that they will have to have quarantines if they come.”
UKInbound said it expects more than half of inbound tourism businesses to fail within the next six months without 
extra financial support.
Analysts at Jefferies warned in a note that across the travel sector, the hit to customer confidence “could lead to a 
weaker lates market [of last-minute summer bookings] and a delayed booking cycle for next year”.
Carrie Smith, who lives near Cardiff and works in TV production, had planned a holiday to Majorca with her 
husband and two children, said she stood to lose about £3,000 on unused bookings as a result of the quarantine 
measures, adding that a fear of future lockdowns meant she was reluctant to travel at all this year. 
The measures “made no sense”, she said. “We’ve no confidence now that [politicians are] not going to change their 
mind.”
Additional reporting by Ian Mount in Madrid
Load-Date: July 28, 2020
End of Document
City Bulletin: Groundings drag Ryanair to a €185m quarterly loss
City Bulletin: Groundings drag Ryanair to a €185m quarterly loss
 
FT.com
July 27, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 753 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Covid-19 flight groundings pushed Ryanair to a €185m loss in the three months to June, as 99 per cent of the fleet 
stayed stuck on the tarmac from mid-March on. Last year it made a €243m profit over the same period. Revenues 
tumbled by almost €2.2bn — 95 per cent — to just €125m, while costs only came down 85 per cent. 
But the airline has been scaling its flight schedule back up quickly since lockdowns started to lift: 40 per cent of 
flights were due to run in July, 60 per cent in August and 70 per cent come September. That should mean a smaller 
loss — but still a loss — over the new quarter. 
That doesn’t mean a return to normal, though, as travellers to Spain facing surprise quarantine can attest. Traffic for 
the year to March 2021 could be down a whopping 60 per cent, Ryanair reckons, with a second wave in Covid-19 
cases in late autumn “our biggest fear right now”.
Briefly
Pharma groups AstraZeneca and Daiichi Sankyo have signed a deal worth up to $6bn to develop and 
commercialise one of the Japanese company’s cancer drugs — the  second big collaboration between the two 
groups in two years. The potential new medicine (DS-1062) “could redefine treatment standards in lung, breast and 
multiple other cancers”, AZ said. The Anglo-Swedish drugmaker has made oncology treatments a key focus in 
recent years. 
City Bulletin: Groundings drag Ryanair to a €185m quarterly loss
Rating agency Moody’s has followed S&P in downgrading Rolls-Royce’s debt to junk. Moody’s said it expected 
“substantial cash outflows” from the engineering group, thought there could be risks to Rolls’ cost-cutting plans and 
said the recovery of the global aviation industry was uncertain. 
Good news for gold bugs. The yellow metal soared to an all-time high on Monday, to $1,944.71 per troy ounce. The 
dollar meanwhile slipped to a multiyear low on coronavirus and US-China concerns, as our markets watcher 
Hudson Lockett reports  here. 
London-listed oil explorer Cairn Energy has struck a deal to sell its stake in a Senegalese oilfield for up to $400m, 
with a $250m return to shareholders set to follow. 
Also out today are updates from Aim-listed Novacyt on its Covid-19 tests, and troubled Amigo loans on its 
financing situation. 
Corporate Spotlight
Ghost Town. “You could practically see the tumbleweeds.” One financier’s observation sums up the strange state 
of the City, even as lockdown measures have lifted. Many companies won’t bring back a skeleton staff to the 
financial centre until September or October. Others don’t plan to return until 2021 at the earliest. Most insist office 
life will remain central to their operations, but there could nonetheless be permanent changes that transform the 
Square Mile.  This piece explores what the new City could look like. 
Beyond the Square Mile 
Europe’s biggest banks are set to unveil  another huge round of provisions for loan losses, as they take stock of the 
damage wrought by Covid-19 around the globe. The largest UK, Swiss and eurozone lenders are expected to 
provision at least €23bn for the second quarter as they report earnings in coming days, according to analysts at 
Citigroup. That is on top of the €25bn of charges the same group took against potential defaults in the first three 
months of the year. 
The German software giant SAP says it intends  to float American subsidiary Qualtrics, which it bought for $8bn two 
years ago. SAP said it intended to remain Qualtrics’ largest shareholder and co-founder Ryan Smith would become 
its largest single shareholder. Chinese companies, meanwhile, have raced to sell shares  on Wall Street this year 
even as relations between Washington and Beijing plunged to their lowest ebb in decades. 
US oil companies have  increased production by 1.2m barrels a day over the past six weeks, as they restore wells 
shut earlier this year by coronavirus and start producing from others they left unfinished as prices sank. “It’s a slow, 
slow recovery, but it’s happening,” said Alexandre Ramos-Peon, a senior analyst at Rystad Energy, a consultancy.
Essential comment before you go
Elaine Moore
Between them, Apple, Amazon and Microsoft have added more than a trillion dollars in market value since the start 
of 2020. They are  in a race to become the first $2tn company. But after months of excess it appears that a minor 
reality check is under way.
What is it like to be hiring at a moment like this?
 Pilita Clark spoke to recruitment professionals working at companies that were hiring rather than firing.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
Load-Date: July 27, 2020
City Bulletin: Groundings drag Ryanair to a €185m quarterly loss
End of Document
Travel industry hit by ‘hammer blow’ of new restrictions
Travel industry hit by ‘hammer blow’ of new restrictions
 
FT.com
July 27, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1360 words
Byline: Darren Dodd
Body
Your level-headed briefing on how the coronavirus epidemic is affecting the markets, global business, our 
workplaces and daily lives, with expert input from our reporters and specialists across the globe.
For updates visit our  live blog. Please send your reactions and suggestions to . We would like to hear from you.
The FT is offering a free 30-day trial to Coronavirus Business Update, which includes access to FT.com. Please 
spread the word by forwarding this newsletter to friends and colleagues who you think would find it valuable. And if 
this has been forwarded to you, hello. Please sign up  here.
Latest news
•
US biotech  Moderna has begun its largest clinical trial for a potential Covid-19 vaccine, giving doses to the 
first of 30,000 participants
•
Florida reported fewer than 9,000 new daily coronavirus cases for the first time in almost three weeks and 
the fewest new deaths in a fortnight
•
Google has told its workers around the world that most will not need to come back to the office until at least 
July of next year 
New restrictions hit travel industry
Travel industry hit by ‘hammer blow’ of new restrictions
Shares in  travel companies took a pasting today as new coronavirus travel restrictions put a damper on hopes that 
the €800bn European tourist industry, ravaged by the grounding of aircraft and closure of hotels, could still salvage 
the 2020 holiday season.
The UK’s sudden decision at the weekend to impose a 14-day quarantine on holidaymakers  returning from Spain 
— the most popular tourist destination for Britons, with 18m visiting last year — threw many people’s travel plans 
into chaos. Rising infections have also led other countries across Europe to introduce  fresh restrictions just as 
mass travel was beginning to return.
The British Chambers of Commerce said the “abrupt” decision to impose quarantine measures on anyone returning 
from Spain was “yet another  hammer blow for the fragile travel and tourism industries”.
Low-cost airlines such as easyJet — whose shares fell more than 10 per cent — are particularly vulnerable. 
Michael O’Leary, chief executive of  Ryanair, which today announced a fall into loss in the second quarter — “the 
most challenging in Ryanair’s 35-year history” — warned of more pay and job cuts if autumn was blighted by 
a second wave of infections. Other airlines were also hit: shares in British Airways’ owner IAG fell 8 per cent and 
Germany’s Lufthansa was down 6 per cent.
Amid the gloom there have been a few glimmers of hope. A new €1.5bn fund to invest in  sun and beach hotels 
around the Mediterranean has raised €680m as investors bet on the sector eventually recovering.
The highly seasonal nature of the travel industry brings with it a specific set of problems — not least that of  cash 
flow, as FT Alphaville points out today — but the underlying challenge is common to all sectors: how to open up for 
business without risking more infections and subsequent, even more devastating, lockdowns.
Markets
The dollar hit a two-year low as investors were spooked about the  economic impact of the pandemic on the US as 
infections increase. “The thing that’s changed in the last few days is that it’s not just gold which has gone up against 
the dollar, but almost everything,” said one strategist.
Gold’s status among investors as a safe haven saw it hit an  all-time high of $1,944.73 a troy ounce on Monday, 
topping its previous nominal high of $1,921 set in September 2011. The metal has  rallied by more than a quarter 
this year, making it one of the best-performing mainstream assets, as investors brace for the economic fallout of 
Covid-19.
A single bitcoin is now trading at $10,177 against the dollar, the highest level since February. Supporters of bitcoin 
say it provides a haven against  market volatility in testing times but detractors counter that it shows correlation to 
little else apart from other cryptocurrencies. 
Business
Banks across Europe are expected to reveal another tranche of  loan-loss charges when they present results this 
week. “It is a universal consensus that, given the headwinds, investing in banks is as stupid an activity as investing 
in oil majors,” said one analyst. The UK government is discussing a plan with banks to tackle the tens of billions of 
pounds of bad debts expected from companies taking up its light-touch  “bounceback” loans.
Swedish company results have been largely positive over the past few weeks, suggesting the country’s  no-
lockdown approach has helped business. The country’s GDP is expected to drop about 5 per cent this year — in 
line with its neighbours but far better than many other European countries. 
The winding-down of the UK government’s furlough scheme, starting next week, is expected to take a  heavy toll on 
Britain’s small businesses. Almost a quarter have cut jobs already, according to an industry survey. Mayor of 
London Sadiq Khan said sectors such as creative industries and hospitality were still much too weak to pick up the 
cost of national insurance and pension contributions. 
Travel industry hit by ‘hammer blow’ of new restrictions
Global economy
As US politicians haggle over a new stimulus programme, many Americans will be hit badly by the end of  
unemployment aid and protection from evictions when current provisions end. Some analysts fear the withdrawal or 
reduction of stimulus could depress consumption and endanger economic recovery. 
Germany’s monthly  Ifo survey showed a sharp uptick in business confidence, although there are fears this could 
be vulnerable to the jump in corporate indebtedness, growing job losses and the threat of a second wave of 
coronavirus infections. In a similar vein, the  FT Editorial Board said Europe should not be too complacent about 
recent positive data. Policymakers must make sure that economic shifts — such as the move to homeworking and 
online shopping — do not lead to mass unemployment or some areas being left behind. 
Indian prime minister Narendra Modi has warned that the pandemic could hit decades of  economic progress, 
reports South Asia bureau chief Amy Kazmin in today’s Big Read. Despite a draconian lockdown — imposed with 
no warning or planning — infections are still rising. “The lockdown instilled fear and when the lockdown was lifted 
the fear is gone, and the virus is hitting everybody,” said one academic. 
Readers respond
Stf82 comments on business columnist Pilita Clark’s  Hiring in a pandemic is not always as easy as it looks
I work as a recruiter in the financial services market and I’ve seen a huge increase in job applications, 
especially over the last six weeks. At the outset of the pandemic, things seemed to be so uncertain that no one 
was really interested in looking at jobs (unless they were unemployed). Now I’m seeing hundreds come 
through. I can’t interview more than a dozen per role so I don’t know if they feel they are about to lose their 
jobs, or have lost them, or are simply looking for something else. But one thing for sure — huge numbers are 
looking. I recently recruited for an FP & A [financial planning and analysis] manager and had over 300 CVs.
Get in touch 
How is your workplace dealing with the pandemic? And what do you think business and markets — and our daily 
lives — will look like after lockdown? Please tell us by emailing . We may publish your contribution in an upcoming 
newsletter. Thanks
The essentials
Our new global economic recovery tracker uses  alternative indicators such as retail footfall, air pollution and box 
office takings to see whether — and where — the world is beginning to return to pre-pandemic norms.
Are you affected by the winding down of the UK’s furlough scheme from next week? Send us your questions for 
the  video Q&A tomorrow with personal finance editor Claer Barrett and Craig Beaumont, of the Federation of Small 
Businesses.
Our video series on how restaurants are adapting to new realities continues with food writer Tim Hayward and the 
FT's Daniel Garrahan visiting a classic  neighbourhood favourite.
Final thought
Online wine tasting? Scavenger hunts? Virtual escape rooms? What is it about organised  online fun that's just 
so . . . cheesy? Capital markets editor Katie Martin has fond memories of the pre-pandemic booze and canapés 
culture of corporate schmoozing. Is it gone forever?
Load-Date: July 27, 2020
End of Document
Lufthansa accuses EU of damaging its business model
Lufthansa accuses EU of damaging its business model
 
FT.com
July 14, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 381 words
Byline: Joe Miller in Frankfurt
Body
Lufthansa has accused the European Commission of causing permanent damage to its business model by forcing it 
to surrender slots at its Frankfurt and Munich hubs in return for approval of a  €9bn bailout by the German 
government. 
Last month, Margrethe Vestager, the EU’s competition chief, warned there was a “high risk” of market distortion if 
Lufthansa’s rescue package did not include remedies such as the relinquishing of take-off and landing slots.
After prolonged negotiations, the airline’s supervisory board agreed to give up 24 slots in Germany to competitors, 
and the bailout deal was subsequently voted through by shareholders.
But in a briefing published on Tuesday, Lufthansa said it was “incomprehensible that the EU Commission should 
intervene in this sensitive production structure during the worst crisis in civil aviation”.
Using Frankfurt and Munich as international transfer hubs is crucial to the airline’s competitiveness, the briefing 
said, because no single German airport has the number of potential customers living nearby that Heathrow does in 
London and Charles de Gaulle in Paris.
Without carrying passengers from connecting flights, long-haul flights from Germany “can no longer be operated 
economically”, said Lufthansa, adding: “In future, [the surrender of slots] will directly or indirectly strengthen long-
haul providers outside Europe.”
Lufthansa accuses EU of damaging its business model
The Lufthansa bailout, which involved the German government taking a stake in the carrier almost a quarter of a 
century after it was first privatised, has been criticised by European rival Ryanair, which has said it will launch a 
legal challenge.
In June, Carsten Spohr, Lufthansa chief executive, admitted the aid package was larger than what the airline 
needed to survive, and was designed to ensure it maintains a “global leading position”.
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary said the excess aid “massively distorts the playing field” and accused the German 
government of “saving jobs in Germany at the expense of jobs in every other country”.
Lufthansa is burning through €1m an hour, with hundreds of its planes still grounded because of the pandemic, and 
has warned it will be left with 22,000 excess staff as it becomes a  permanently smaller business.
The final number of job cuts is subject to negotiations with unions.
Load-Date: July 14, 2020
End of Document
Quarantine exemption list fails to ease travel industry concerns
Quarantine exemption list fails to ease travel industry concerns
 
FT.com
July 3, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 753 words
Byline: Laura Hughes and Alice Hancock in London
Body
The UK tourism industry branded 2020 “a write-off” on Friday even though ministers said travellers in England could 
visit 59 overseas destinations without having to self-isolate for 14 days on their return from July 10.
The  list of countries dubbed safe by the British government includes almost all of Europe, with the  exception of 
Portugal and Sweden, along with a dozen other countries, including Australia, South Korea and Vietnam. 
Citizens returning from the US, China and Middle East will still be required to quarantine for two weeks under the 
latest guidance. British passengers could have to self-isolate on arrival in countries that still have a quarantine 
policy, such as New Zealand, after plans for bilateral “air bridges” with other countries were dropped.
The list was meant to be published on Wednesday but the timetable has slipped — to the consternation of the travel 
industry. 
Inbound tourism is one of the UK’s most valuable service industries, contributing more than £28bn to the economy 
in 2019. But only 24 per cent of visits to the UK come between October and December, with most international 
visitors arriving in the summer months.
The publication of the list was welcomed by British Airways, easyJet and Ryanair which dropped their legal action 
against the government over the introduction of the two-week quarantine period. 
Quarantine exemption list fails to ease travel industry concerns
“The blanket quarantine introduced by the UK government on everyone entering into England was irrational and 
has seriously damaged the economy and the travel industry”, the airlines said in a statement. “Today’s publication 
of a list of countries is a first step.”
Joss Croft, chief executive of UKInbound, which represents the UK’s international tourism sector, said that the lifting 
of quarantine measures had come too late and that most tourism businesses considered this year “a write-off”.
“A lot of people will have already decided where they are going and it won’t be the UK this year. There is only a very 
short time for [companies] to get money through their books,” he said.
Martin Ferguson, vice-president of public affairs at American Express Global Business Travel, said that the 
quarantine policy had been “badly-timed and ill thought out” and that the list of exempt countries missed off some of 
the UK’s busiest business travel routes.
Mr Croft warned that without the US and China on the list, the UK had also lost two of its most valuable source 
markets for tourists and that about 40 per cent of UKInbound members had already been forced to lay off staff.
The UK’s tourism industry will lose about £19.7bn in spending from international tourists this year,  according to 
estimates from VisitBritain, the UK tourist board.
The figure represents nearly two-thirds of a decline on last year’s spending data after travel bans and the imposition 
of quarantines to travellers arriving in the UK in June wiped out most of the crucial summer season.
The Foreign Office also published a list of countries which will be exempt from Saturday from the current advice to 
avoid “all but essential travel”. 
Ministers  introduced quarantine restrictions on all arrivals into England from June 8 in order to prevent a second 
wave of coronavirus.
Scottish first minister Nicola Sturgeon said Scotland wanted to align with the rest of the UK for “obvious practical 
reasons”, but could not allow itself to be “dragged along in the wake” of the UK government’s “shambolic decision-
making process”.
Ms Sturgeon said UK government proposals had been repeatedly changed, but she hoped to have a Scottish view 
“very soon”. With prevalence of Covid-19 in Scotland just one-fifth of that estimated for England, it was possible that 
the balance of risk posed by travellers from other countries would be different, she said.
Mark Drakeford, first minister of Wales, also said Whitehall had been “shambolic”, circulating different lists of 
approved countries yesterday and failing to decide when quarantine would be lifted. 
Sir Rocco Forte, chairman of Rocco Forte hotels, said that permitting visitors from some countries without 
quarantines was “a step in the right direction” but criticised the government’s “inconsistent” approach and said that 
the sector needed more targeted support in order to avoid mass redundancies.
“Our industry has suffered hugely in this period . . . Unlike businesses that have had a major reduction in their 
revenues, we have had zero revenues,” he said.
Additional reporting by Andy Bounds in Huddersfield, Mure Dickie in Edinburgh and Jane Croft in London 
Load-Date: July 3, 2020
End of Document
ESG strategies still buoyant despite Covid, say in-house lawyers
ESG strategies still buoyant despite Covid, say in-house lawyers
 
FT.com
June 26, 2020 Friday 3:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1673 words
Byline: Pilita Clark
Body
When the coronavirus crisis hit, Springer Nature responded in several striking ways. 
The publishing group, known for its flagship Nature science journal, made thousands of articles from its journals 
and books freely available to help researchers get on top of the pandemic. The group is already a pioneer in open 
access publishing, making some content available online for free, but it had never acted quite on this scale before. 
By June, it had made more than  19,000 pandemic-related articles available.
Springer launched a learn-at-home platform to help teachers who suddenly found themselves trying to give lessons 
online.
It also figured out ways to help students marooned in their parents’ homes and on unfamiliar computers to access 
Springer Nature databases seamlessly.
Then, to speed up scientists’ work on the new virus, it encouraged researchers to freely share their underlying 
experimental data sets.
Why the overt altruism? For  Rachel Jacobs, group general counsel, it was an obvious response for a business that 
has put environmental, social and governance goals, or ESG, at the heart of its strategy.
“The Covid-19 crisis has been a real-life case study of our purpose,” she says.
The strategy may work for Springer Nature, but what of the wider business world?
ESG strategies still buoyant despite Covid, say in-house lawyers
Sceptics have long argued that ESG targets would falter in the face of any global crisis. At a recent FT conference, 
Ryanair airline boss Michael O’Leary said bluntly: “I suspect an awful lot of the environmental agenda and targets 
will be put on the backburner for a number of years.” People would still care about climate change, but they would 
care more about jobs and soaring government debt.
It is still early days, but the coronavirus crisis has shown that the opposite may transpire. Some companies doubled 
down on ESG during the pandemic — even more so after a police officer killed a black man, George Floyd, in the 
US.
In a number of cases, the sustainability agenda is driven by the top legal officer.
At Springer Nature, Ms Jacobs is at the centre of its ESG efforts. She is the board member responsible for diversity 
and inclusion; she is a member of the steering group for responsible business delivery; and she sits on the global 
crisis management committee.
 Shannon Thyme Klinger, group general counsel at Swiss pharmaceutical group Novartis, is also heavily involved in 
ESG. She became general counsel when her predecessor, Felix Ehrat, left after a controversy over a $1.2m 
payment Novartis made in 2017 to a company owned by US President Donald Trump’s former personal attorney, 
Michael Cohen.
She sits on a “trust and reputation committee”, a subgroup of the company’s executive committee, which is chaired 
by the chief executive and meets every other month.
The committee is focused on what Ms Klinger calls building trust with society.
In other words, it is more about the ‘S’ in ESG — social challenges — a strand that has focused corporate attention 
after Floyd’s death triggered waves of demonstrations against police brutality and wider demands for racial justice.
Many companies have scrambled to come up with measures to boost their diversity.
At Novartis, Ms Klinger had  already begun to push for more diversity in the largely white and male legal profession.
In February, she launched a new  “preferred firm” programme that made Novartis the latest big business to press 
the external law firms it engages to boost their diversity.
Novartis said it would withhold 15 per cent of fees unless at least 30 per cent of billable associate hours and 20 per 
cent of partner hours came from women, people of colour or LGBT attorneys.
“I made partner in a law firm in the US in 2004 and at that time, 18 per cent of partners were female in the US 
broadly,” says Ms Klinger. This share had only inched up since then, despite “many great efforts” to improve it.
Corporate ESG goals are one concern, but what about ESG investing? Approaches that seek both financial returns 
and environmental or social gains have soared in popularity recently. In Europe alone, investors put a record 
€120bn into sustainable funds in 2019, more than double the amount in the previous year.
Again, sceptics predicted investor appetite would shrivel if hard times struck, while advocates argued that 
companies that behaved ethically and sustainably would prove more resilient. 
So far, the evidence supports the advocates.
Green bonds and ESG share indices have outperformed benchmarks in many parts of the world. ESG-focused 
exchange traded funds have also done well.
That may be because they are heavily weighted towards companies that have proved especially resilient in the 
pandemic, such as pharmaceutical and technology groups. 
ESG strategies still buoyant despite Covid, say in-house lawyers
Yet some analysts believe that at a time of deep uncertainty, consumers will reward companies that behave fairly 
while penalising any trying to profit from hardship or behaving unethically.
The top lawyer in one large financial business thinks the nature of the Covid-19 crisis may be making ESG investing 
even more popular. 
“This is first and foremost a health crisis,” says  Melissa Kennedy, chief legal officer at Sun Life Financial, the 
Canadian insurance group. “I’m hearing investment professionals, particularly in the US, speak about how important 
sustainable investment is.”
Ms Kennedy is an ESG champion within Sun Life, and was recently appointed an expert adviser to an independent 
task force aiming to make sure Canada can get people back to work in an economy that is clean, competitive and 
resilient.
For Ms Kennedy, it is a chance to take part in work that could have a lasting impact on ESG goals at Sun Life and 
beyond. “I’m thrilled to be on that task force,” she says. 
Six of the best general counsel for sustainability
The following stand out for their ability to build and lead legal teams.
Profiles compiled by RSG Consulting and FT editors
Carlos Brown
Dominion Energy
General counsel
Carlos Brown’s varied career history ranges from running a private equity start-up and managing a boutique law 
firm to running power plants and identifying alternatives to fossil fuel at Dominion Energy, the US utility group. He 
leads the company’s sustainability efforts, including industrial waste reduction and tracking water usage. He argues 
that the company’s diverse leadership helps its increasing understanding of sustainability: “Diversity of perspective 
follows diversity of representation — you [can] hear the different vibrations that are signalling shifts in the economy 
and marketplace.”
Marcus Brown
Entergy 
General counsel
Marcus Brown has a broad legal role in Entergy, overseeing communications, compliance, government affairs and 
security. His diverse team is encouraged to pursue pro bono efforts and sustainability goals. His remit means all 
three facets of the environmental, social and governance framework are carried out by teams who report to him. 
Leo Denault, chief executive officer at the energy company, describes him as “the kind of leader every company 
wants, someone with superior professional skills, deep roots in the community and a natural interest in developing 
the people around him”. 
Claire Chapman
Capita 
Chief general counsel
Claire Chapman joined outsourcing company Capita in 2018 as it was undergoing a transformation from a complex 
structure of 250 businesses to a single centralised entity. Ms Chapman overhauled the legal function, creating a 
legal training academy and digital transformation strategy to bring the department together. She leads the 
company’s “responsible business” agenda, designing values to inculcate a new purpose-led culture in the business. 
ESG strategies still buoyant despite Covid, say in-house lawyers
In the past year, Capita committed itself to having workers on the board and to paying a living wage, as part of a 
continuing turnround plan. The GC’s role gives her wide-ranging responsibilities and, according to chief financial 
officer Patrick Butcher, Ms Chapman “brings a neutral challenge to debate, thinking about stakeholders in the 
broadest sense”.
Rachel Jacobs
Springer Nature 
Group general counsel
Rachel Jacobs facilitated the merger between her employer Macmillan Science and Education and Springer 
Science+Business Media in 2015, taking up her post at the newly formed Springer Nature. Ms Jacobs sits on the 
management board, where she is a “positive force for structured change”, says chairman Stefan von Holtzbrinck. 
The publishing group faces growing challenges including new business models and conflicting national and regional 
regulations as the industry becomes both global and digital. Her legal team is sustaining the organisation’s 
competitive advantage through digital developments. She also leads the publisher’s diversity and inclusion efforts, 
setting a target of 45 per cent women in leadership roles by 2023.
Melissa Kennedy
Sun Life Financial 
Chief legal officer
Melissa Kennedy is the executive sponsor for sustainability for the Canadian insurance group’s operations and 
investment products. Her work in framing the company’s data privacy stance sent a clear message to customers 
about how their data will be used, enabling it to pursue digital projects such as Ella, its artificial intelligence tool. She 
has spent the past decade championing diversity in Canada’s legal profession and is a founder and executive 
committee member for Legal Leaders for Diversity and Inclusion, a long-established and influential group of more 
than 100 leading Canadian companies. 
Shannon Thyme Klinger
Novartis 
Group general counsel
In February this year, Shannon Thyme Klinger told the pharmaceutical group’s legal advisers that she would 
withhold a percentage of their fees if they could not reach targets on diverse representation. She leads Novartis’s 
commitments to UN pledges on standards of conduct including improving LGBTQ inclusion in the workplace, and 
reaching gender balance in management and pay equity by 2023. Ms Klinger’s promotion of an “unbossed” working 
culture to encourage the company’s 100,000-plus employees to take greater ownership of their work is one 
example of how she helps drive the company’s strategy.
Load-Date: June 15, 2021
End of Document
Lufthansa shareholders back €9bn bailout package
Lufthansa shareholders back €9bn bailout package
 
FT.com
June 25, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 601 words
Byline: Joe Miller in Frankfurt and Laurence Fletcher in London
Body
Lufthansa’s shareholders have voted through a €9bn bailout package that gives the German government a stake in 
the group almost a quarter of a century after it was first privatised.
The deal, which allows Berlin to raise its holding to a blocking minority in the event of a hostile takeover bid, had 
been in jeopardy after the airline’s largest investor, billionaire Heinz Hermann Thiele, indicated that he wanted to 
reopen negotiations with Angela Merkel’s administration.
However, Mr Thiele, who built a 15.5 per cent position in the airline in the months following the Covid-19 
outbreak and could have single-handedly blocked the bailout because of the low turnout at Thursday’s 
extraordinary general meeting, ended up supporting the package.
Overall, more than 98 per cent of those registered voted to approve the bailout.
In his opening remarks at the meeting, chief executive Carsten Spohr defended the size of the deal, which he 
previously said was  larger than the amount Lufthansa needed to avoid insolvency.
“Viability is the sum of competitiveness plus ability to invest,” the former pilot said.
Mr Spohr also said the German carrier, which had been burning through €1m an hour as most of its planes 
remained grounded, had “no alternative for meeting our capital requirements”, and reiterated that Lufthansa will 
emerge from the crisis a smaller group, with at least 100 fewer aircraft.
Lufthansa shareholders back €9bn bailout package
Rival airline Ryanair has vowed to challenge the bailout in court.
The success of the bailout vote is a blow to a number of US and UK hedge funds, which had stood to profit if the 
rescue package was scuppered.
Andreas Halvorsen’s Viking Global Investors, Steve Cohen’s Point72 Asset Management and Paul Marshall’s 
Marshall Wace are among those that have been running bets against the carrier, which is one of the three most-
shorted stocks in Germany, according to data group IHS Markit.
Hedge funds piled into bets against Lufthansa in mid-March, as lockdowns in the world’s big economies forced 
airlines to halt most flights and a number of them to request government help. 
Some traders expected the bailout to weigh further on the share price as it would dilute the shares. Short bets 
reached an all-time high of 80m shares on loan in late May, according to IHS Markit, just after the rescue package 
was announced.
“The equity will be diluted as the share count will go up,” said one short seller. “Once you take money from the 
government, it's like taking money from the devil — if you make exceptional profits they will take it back off you, look 
at the banks [after the credit crisis].”
However, Lufthansa shares rallied in anticipation of shareholders’ approval, hitting funds hard.
“It’s been painful for short sellers,” said Ivan Cosovic, founder of data group Breakout Point, which tracks short 
selling.
Earlier on Thursday, the European Commission approved the aid package, and competition chief 
Margrethe Vestager defended Brussels’ decision to force Lufthansa to give up lucrative slots at its hub airports in 
Munich and Frankfurt.
“This gives competing carriers the chance to enter those markets, ensuring fair prices and increased choice for 
European consumers,” Ms Vestager said.
Last night, Lufthansa, which includes the Eurowings, Brussels, Swiss and Austrian Airlines, reached a deal with the 
independent flight attendants union UFO, securing savings of more than half a billion euros through measures 
including the suspension of pay increases.
Mr Spohr said the group was also on course to reach a deal with the pilots’ union, but added that negotiations with 
services union Verdi remained “disappointing”.
Load-Date: June 25, 2020
End of Document
EasyJet ’s cash call won’t stop low-cost rivals soaring ahead
EasyJet’s cash call won’t stop low-cost rivals soaring ahead
 
FT.com
June 25, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 808 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Some things are worth paying for, even £400m-odd. Leonardo da Vinci’s ‘Salvator Mundi’,  for example, if you’re a 
Saudi prince. Newcastle United, yours for only £300m, if you’ve got a strong enough stomach for it. For easyJet, it 
seems £419m is the             price worth paying for keeping its investment-grade credit rating. 
The airline called on investors for cash in a 15 per cent placing launched on Wednesday evening, eventually done 
at a 5 per cent discount. Why now, when it has already scraped together £2.4bn in cash and revenues are starting 
to come back after months of lockdown?
Short answer: to keep the rating agencies sweet when it will have debt to refinance next year and needs to 
complete another £300m of sale and leasebacks. The £419m cash call should be enough to keep the credit rating 
up, and investors wouldn’t easily fund a bigger issue. 
EasyJet’s balance sheet is not in dire shape. It is  no Lufthansa, which has lined up a €9bn government bailout. Nor 
Air France-KLM, which secured its own multibillion-euro parachute. Still, the airline is now starting to resemble one 
of the legacy flag carriers more than it does its low-cost rivals. 
The group is  on the defensive, shrinking its fleet and preparing for a dip in demand to last until 2023. It will act to 
protect its most profitable bases where it is able to charge premium prices for convenience and may retreat from 
more marginal airports. 
EasyJet ’s cash call won’t stop low-cost rivals soaring ahead
Ryanair and Wizz Air can afford to be on the offensive. They look stronger and have lower costs. That gives them 
options. Even if there is not a sector-wide shakeout since some governments have stepped in, the two airlines are 
well placed to grow and pick off rivals when they fall by the wayside. 
EasyJet is doing its best to catch them up. It is cutting its cost base, laying off staff and scaling back spending on 
new Airbus planes. If the group pulls off the cost-cutting, leisure travel bounces back and customers flock to new 
easyJet holidays, it can get back on the front foot. 
But the airline has a chequered record on trimming expenses. Its pledge to keep costs per seat excluding fuel to 
2019 levels next year ￿ — even as it restructures ￿ — looks pie in the sky.
The cash call is the price of steadying easyJet’s finances and that’s probably worth £419m, but not more.
Mini Mitie 
How the mighty are fallen. On Thursday Mitie announced it was raising £200m at 25p a share and paying about 
£270m in cash and shares for collapsed rival Interserve’s  facilities management services. Mitie’s shares rose a fifth 
to 96p. But they were more than 300p each just three years ago when outsourcers were in their prime. 
That was in the  pre-Carillion days when the stock market was dazzled by contract wins and revenue growth and 
lost sight of cash and profitability. Investors won’t forget again that outsourcers are leveraged gambles on future 
income flows and the margins are a skinny 5 per cent at best.
Phil Bentley, the hard man brought in to turn Mitie round in 2016, is right. The outsourcer is a sausage machine. 
High volumes of cheap ingredients go in, are squished together to extract maximum juice, and then squeezed out.
Mr Bentley has peppered Mitie’s mix with technology — CCTV, temperature sensors and the like — and refined the 
range of services offered. He has sold off its rat catching and social housing businesses to focus more on providing 
posher-sounding facilities management to the likes of GlaxoSmithKline, and has also cut Mitie’s net debt back and 
doubled margins to 4 per cent. 
That is still a long way from his target of nearer 6 per cent. But the rights issue will reduce leverage to pay down 
debt to just over one times prettified earnings. 
Now Mr Bentley is making full use of the sausage machine. He is paying just over six times ebitda for Interserve’s 
main business. The deal will double Mitie by smushing together its 47,500-strong army of hospital moppers, train 
cleaners and supermarket guards with Interserve’s 30,000. It will give the group more exposure to government 
contracts, too. That’s a good thing just now. Hospitals honour clinical waste contracts and governments are better 
payers in times of national crisis. 
Nonetheless, Mitie is essentially the same old mix of bread and offcuts, with a few E numbers thrown in.
Not So Fast
Non-Standard Finance, the sub-prime lender that made an ill-judged and ultimately  unsuccessful tilt at rival 
Provident Financial last year, admitted on Thursday to             material uncertainty about whether it could carry on 
as a going concern. 
It also said it was considering issuing equity to capitalise on the “exceptional market opportunity” provided to it as 
an alternative source of finance by recession when banks tighten their lending criteria. Not on your nelly.
EasyJet: cat.rutterpooley@ft.comMitie, Non-Standard Finance: kate.burgess@ft.com
Load-Date: June 25, 2020
EasyJet ’s cash call won’t stop low-cost rivals soaring ahead
End of Document
Swissport halves its UK workforce
Swissport halves its UK workforce
 
FT.com
June 24, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 400 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Air services group Swissport has announced plans to halve its UK
workforce because of the huge slowdown in international travel.
Jason Holt, chief executive of Swissport Western Europe, wrote to employees on Wednesday to tell them about 
4,500 of its 8,500-strong workforce in the UK and Ireland would be cut. 
The UK airport trade association has warned separately that up to 20,000 jobs are at now at risk in the sector, 
which has been  hit hard by the shutdown caused by the pandemic. 
One of the world’s largest operators of airport duty-free shops, Dufry,  announced on Wednesday that it aims to cut 
employee costs by up to a third as part of a radical restructuring programme to shore up its finances.
In his message to Swissport employees, Mr Holt said that the job cuts were essential to “secure the lifeline of 
funding from lenders and investors to protect as many jobs as possible”.
He wrote: “We are now facing a long period of uncertainty and reduced
flight numbers, along with significant changes taking place to the way
people travel and the way goods move around the world. There is no
escaping the fact that the industry is now smaller than it was, and it
Swissport halves its UK workforce
will remain so for some time to come.”
He added that the company’s revenue is forecast to be almost 50 per
cent lower than last year.
Swissport is one of the UK’s four main cargo and ground-handling
companies — alongside dnata, WFS and Menzies. Business leaders from
the industry have been warning the government they needed immediate
help to reduce the risk of damage to the wider UK supply chain.
Airlines are already in the process of cutting thousands of jobs.
British Airways is  axing up to 12,000, while Ryanair and easyJet
are cutting up to 15 per cent and 30 per cent of their workforces,
respectively.
Mr Holt said ground handlers operate on a low-margin, high-volume business model.
“We are fundamentally reliant on a high volume of flights taking place
— whether for cargo, ground handling or lounge operations. When
aircraft aren’t flying, our source of revenue evaporates.”
Karen Dee, chief executive of the Airport Operators Association, the UK trade body, reiterated calls for the UK 
government to cancel  its 14-day quarantine policy for everyone arriving in the country. 
“Government needs to recognise the immense crisis facing the country’s airport communities and take action to 
support UK aviation and protect livelihoods,” she said. 
Load-Date: June 24, 2020
End of Document
Plan for travel corridors with Europe to be given priority
Plan for travel corridors with Europe to be given priority
 
FT.com
June 24, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 527 words
Byline: Jim Pickard and Tanya Powley in London
Body
Transport secretary Grant Shapps said on Wednesday that agreeing “travel corridors” with other European 
countries — which would enable travellers to avoid contentious quarantine restrictions — was a “massive priority”.
The UK is set to announce plans for travel corridors with as many as 10 countries on Monday, and although the list 
has not been finalised, it is expected to include France, Spain, Greece, Denmark and Belgium.
Under the plans, people arriving in the UK from these countries would be exempt from the 14-day quarantine that 
was introduced on June 8 in an effort to stop a second wave of coronavirus infections.
Ministers are keen to put the plans in place by July 4, so that Britons would have the chance to go on holidays in 
the Mediterranean without being affected by quarantine restrictions.
This is also the date when people in England will be allowed to go on domestic holidays following the latest phase 
of lockdown easing.
The UK’s quarantine policy for the pandemic was introduced much later than many other countries, some of which 
are now easing the restrictions, including certain European nations.
Boris Johnson justified the policy as a means to prevent a fresh surge in virus infections in the UK. 
But business groups have argued that the quarantine restrictions are unnecessary, and further damage the 
economy that is reeling from the Covid-19 crisis.
Plan for travel corridors with Europe to be given priority
Mr Shapps on Wednesday for the first time set out the criteria by which travel corridors can be agreed with other 
countries.
He said the UK would consider the level and trajectory of Covid-19 infections in other nations as well as whether 
countries had proper social distancing rules and a test and trace system for the virus — or something equivalent.
Mr Shapps defended the quarantine restrictions, although he admitted there were arguments inside the government 
about whether it should have been introduced sooner in the crisis.
He said Chris Whitty, England’s chief medical officer, had told him the policy would “not be a solution” to tackling 
the virus from the outset.
The aviation industry has a call scheduled with the government on Thursday to discuss the possible introduction of 
travel corridors with European countries and the quarantine policy. 
British Airways, easyJet and Ryanair this month started legal action against the government over the policy, calling 
it “flawed".
Mr Shapps, meanwhile, said that the virus had been a “complete disaster” for airlines and airports, including ground 
handlers. “I understand entirely the pain that aviation is going through,” he added.
Swissport, one of the leading airport ground handlers in Britain, announced plans on Wednesday to halve its UK 
and Ireland workforce by cutting more than 4,500 jobs. 
Karen Dee, chief executive of the Airport Operators Association, a trade body, said the job losses showed a “key 
component of the UK’s infrastructure is on its knees”.
She called on the government to revoke the blanket quarantine restrictions as soon as possible and introduce a 
measured approach, such as travel corridors with other countries.  
The Airport Operators Association said up to 20,000 jobs were now at risk within the industry.
 
Load-Date: June 25, 2020
End of Document
Frequent flyer: when will we fly again?
Frequent flyer: when will we fly again?
 
FT.com
June 17, 2020 Wednesday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1478 words
Byline: Michael Skapinker
Body
“Bring on summer,” said American Airlines as it announced plans to restart more than 55 per cent of its domestic 
flights in July. Ryanair is offering one-way tickets for as little as €19.99 as it aims to restore 40 per cent of its 
services next month.
The airlines are rushing to put more aircraft into the skies, but are the passengers ready to fly? Not really. In the 
UK, 81 per cent of people surveyed in May said that they had no plans to travel outside the country in the next four 
months, according to UBS Evidence Lab, the bank’s data arm, which has been tracking consumers’ intentions.
Even in countries where coronavirus infections are under tighter control, people are reluctant to head for the airport. 
In South Korea, more than 80 per cent said in April that they had no travel plans, although a survey in May showed 
this had fallen to 70 per cent and the number prepared to travel outside Asia had gone up from 6 per cent to 11 per 
cent.
Some passengers who flew in the past few weeks have found the experience strange but not too stressful, if only 
because they had the airport and aircraft almost to themselves. One traveller who took an American Airlines flight 
from San Jose to Dallas Fort Worth airport and then to London’s Heathrow in late May told me his overwhelming 
impression was of the emptiness of the facilities. He saw only two other passengers on the inter-terminal train at 
DFW — and they were airport staff.
The traveller said the unharried check-in clerk was behind Plexiglas. There were hand-sanitiser stations dotted 
through the building. There were no queues to get through security and no problems with social distancing at the 
Frequent flyer: when will we fly again?
gate — because hardly anyone was boarding his flight. There was no question of having to sit next to another 
passenger: there were so few on board that when, after settling into his window seat, someone else sat on the 
aisle, cabin crew moved him to a three-seat row of his own. Queues for the toilets? There weren’t any.
That will all change if people start flying in greater numbers, as the plans being laid out by airline associations, 
governments and regulators make clear. It’s important to get these procedures right, the European Union Aviation 
Safety Agency (Easa) said. In one alarming section of its safety protocol for airlines it said: “An increase in cases of 
unruly or disruptive passengers should be expected, either prior to departure or in-flight. This may be due to 
passengers not wishing to sit next to each other or accusing each other of not following the rules. There is a strong 
potential for conflict if it is not managed properly. In the worst case, panic could become quite a serious threat to 
flight safety.” 
So how do we avoid that? First, dissuade people with possible Covid-19 symptoms from going to the airport. 
“Passengers should provide a statement regarding their Covid-19 status before being issued a boarding pass,” 
Easa said, adding that airlines “should make passengers aware of the consequences of making a false statement 
and the fact that symptomatic passengers detected at the airport may not be allowed to continue their travel”.
Should airports and airlines take passengers’ temperatures as they enter or before they board? There is little 
evidence that it is effective, Easa says. Earlier epidemics, such as the Sars outbreak, suggested temperature 
screening was “a high-cost low-efficiency measure”. Covid-19 can be asymptomatic. It can also be infectious before 
any symptoms appear. If temperature-checking played any useful role, Easa said, it was in dissuading those who 
are ill from travelling or reassuring those who aren’t that they didn’t have infectious fellow-passengers on the flight.
If you do fly, you will be saying goodbye to your loved ones outside the airport terminal. The UK Department for 
Transport instructions, issued last week, match Easa’s: the only non-passengers allowed into the terminal will be 
those assisting a disabled passenger or escorting a child who will be travelling unaccompanied.
Much of airport and aircraft life will mirror what happens elsewhere in these pandemic times: passengers will be told 
to keep their distance from others and clean their hands constantly. But some older aspects of flying will be turned 
upside down. This applies particularly to checking in bags and hand luggage. The airlines’ push in recent years has 
been to deter the checking-in of luggage. The result has been a battle for overhead locker space as passengers 
have brought as much as they could on board: wheeled suitcases, laptop bags, handbags and whatever else they 
could get past the flight attendants at the door.
The new rules are: as little hand luggage as possible — check in whatever you can. As both the UK transport 
department and Easa say: the fewer on-board bags there are, the quicker boarding and disembarking will be and 
the less chance there is of opening or closing a latch that another hand has touched. Easa says airlines should 
encourage checking in luggage “by implementing incentive policies”.
The pre-pandemic incentive policies went the other way: for many airlines, the more luggage you checked in the 
more you paid. Are they really going to reverse this? I asked easyJet whether it intended to eliminate or reduce its 
checked baggage charges, which go up to £37.49 for a 23kg bag. EasyJet said it had no current plans to reduce 
hold luggage charges but would “review” the situation regularly.
Under Easa’s plans, there will no longer be duty-free sales on board. In-flight food should be pre-packed and sealed 
and drinks should be in cans. Passengers should wear face masks from the moment they enter the airport and 
throughout the flight. If you’re on a long-haul flight you should bring enough masks to change them every four 
hours.
If any passenger shows signs after take-off of Covid-19, including “fever, persistent cough, vomiting, diarrhoea, 
difficulty breathing or other flu-like symptoms”, they should be isolated on board, with two empty rows in each 
direction if possible, and the closest toilet reserved for the sick passenger.
Frequent flyer: when will we fly again?
The whole toilet situation sounds pretty fraught. Even if there are no symptomatic passengers on board, Easa says 
that one toilet should be reserved for the crew. Airlines should not allow queues for the others. Ryanair says 
passengers will have to ask for permission to go to the loo.
None of this sounds much fun, and the airlines, understandably, are keen to assure us that the chances of 
contracting Covid-19 on a flight are low. The International Air Transport Association’s medical director said there 
was sparse evidence that a coronavirus-afflicted passenger could infect others on board.
A flight from the US to Taiwan at the end of March that subsequently turned out to have had 12 symptomatic 
passengers caused no problems for the other 328 passengers and crew members who all tested negative. An 
informal survey of 18 large airlines identified, from January to March, just three cases of in-flight transmission of 
coronavirus, all from passengers to crew, and four cases of pilot to pilot infection, which could have taken place 
during the flight or before or after it.
There were no cases of passenger to passenger transmission on these flights, which was also confirmed in 
information Iata requested from 70 airlines representing half of global traffic. The only suspected case of large-scale 
in-flight infection was on a flight from the UK to Vietnam in early March in which one passenger was thought to have 
infected 14 others, 12 of whom were sitting nearby. Iata said a formal study into this flight was expected to take 
place.
It helps, Iata said, that passengers all face the same direction, that they are protected from those in front and 
behind by seat backs, that cabin air flow is from ceiling to floor and that modern planes have high efficiency 
particulate air (Hepa) filters that are effective at trapping viruses.
Will this be enough to persuade millions to fly? Possibly not at first. That will probably take a worldwide vaccination 
programme or widespread immunity through past infection, and we are a long way from that. As Iata concedes, the 
numbers who have had the disease are still low — and we don’t know how long immunity lasts. But the queues 
prepared to enter shops after a long lockdown suggest many are itching to get back to normal. If the price is right 
this summer, a fair number may want to get away. But for now, flying looks like an activity for the young and less 
vulnerable — or the reckless and the brave.
Follow Michael on Twitter  @Skapinker or email him at 
Follow  @FTLifeArts on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first. Listen to our podcast,             Culture Call, 
where FT editors and special guests discuss life and art in the time of coronavirus. Subscribe on             Apple,             
Spotify, or wherever you listen.
Load-Date: June 24, 2020
End of Document
Tourism/quarantine: no holiday
Tourism/quarantine: no holiday
 
FT.com
June 16, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 451 words
Body
Armchair travellers intent on visiting Great Britain can use the national tourism agency website to download  recipes 
for lemon lavender shortbread, take a virtual tour of Harry Potter locations and shuffle a thoroughly British             
playlist. Piquantly, this includes The Clash’s 1980s anthem “Should I Stay or Should I Go?”
What they cannot do, under current rules, is fly to the country without a two-week quarantine. That — unsurprisingly 
— has  irked British Airways, and Ryanair, as well as easyJet which has been             resuming flights this week. 
Similar restrictions elsewhere have stymied visitor flows, dealing a blow to the $3tn global tourism industry. 
The UK government may quell the rebellion by exempting most destinations favoured by Brits from quarantine 
rules. This does not solve the travel industry’s real problem - the natural risk aversion of consumers. Tourism is an 
up-close and personal business of crowded souks, beach massages and island raves. It does not fit well within a 
social distanced world. 
Snapshots from holiday destinations show an industry trying to reinvent itself. Some have little choice. Thailand, 
which relies on tourism for almost a fifth of its economy, will end its ban on incoming international flights at the end 
of the month.
 Hoteliers are putting the focus on upmarket holidays — single-unit villas are an attractive proposition when you 
want to minimise contact — and local travel. Vietnam has revived a previously-used mantra of “Vietnamese travel in 
Vietnam”. Hotels across Asia are using packages to lure locals into discounted staycations or weekends.
In some cities, hotels recasting themselves as quarantine specialists are doing a roaring trade. In  Auckland, where 
the average length of stay a year ago was under two nights, hoteliers are now hosting guests who stay for a 
Tourism/quarantine: no holiday
minimum 14 days. In China, where the InterContinental Hotel Group, Marriott and Accor chains are mostly back in 
business, occupancy rates were last month around 50 per cent,             according to data consultancy STR.  
Tourism is a huge part of many economies. All told, including indirect business, tourism is responsible for one in 10 
jobs globally,  says the World Tourism & Travel Council. Even in the UK, the sector generated £200bn last year. 
Rows over rules to reduce infection will recur. But with second waves of infection appearing in Asia, the wariness of 
holiday makers will damage revenues worse than travel restrictions.
If you are a subscriber and would like to receive alerts when Lex articles are published, just click the button “Add to 
myFT”, which appears at the top of this page above the headline. 
Article re-edited prior to print publication.
Load-Date: June 16, 2020
End of Document
BA , easyJet and Ryanair launch legal action over UK quarantine
BA, easyJet and Ryanair launch legal action over UK quarantine
 
FT.com
June 12, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 568 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
British Airways, easyJet and Ryanair are pushing ahead with legal action against the UK government over the 
introduction of its two-week quarantine period on travellers entering Britain.
The group filed the legal papers on Thursday evening at the High Court, just days after  the new quarantine rules 
came into effect. They have asked for their judicial review to be heard as soon as possible. 
The three airlines on Friday said they had launched their action against the government’s “flawed quarantine”, 
which they have claimed would have a “devastating effect on British tourism and the wider economy” as well as 
destroying thousands of jobs.
Many in the travel industry have called on the government to introduce a system of “air bridges” or “travel corridors”, 
which would enable people to travel between two countries with similar levels of coronavirus infection without the 
need to quarantine. 
Turkey, Greece and Portugal are among the popular holiday destinations that have indicated a willingness to strike 
such a deal, even though the UK continues to have relatively high coronavirus infection rates.
The UK’s three biggest airlines said in a statement on Friday that there was so far no “evidence on how and when 
proposed ‘air bridges’ between the UK and other countries will be implemented”.
The group wants the government to readopt its previous quarantine policy introduced on March 10, where the 
restrictions were limited to passengers from “high risk” countries. This would be the “most practical and effective 
BA , easyJet and Ryanair launch legal action over UK quarantine
solution” and would bring the UK in line with much of Europe which is opening its borders in the middle of this 
month, the airlines said.
Boris Johnson, UK prime minister, has previously insisted quarantine rules are a meaningful protection against 
coronavirus. “We need to take steps now to manage the risk of imported cases triggering a second peak,” he said 
this month.
The airlines said in a pre-action letter sent to the government last week that ministers had acted unlawfully by 
imposing the restrictions. The move was “disproportionate” and unfair towards foreign nationals and UK citizens, 
and would destroy attempts to rebuild their businesses.
They pointed out that the policy went far beyond the restrictions imposed during the first phase of lockdown in the 
UK and was more stringent than the guidelines applied to people with Covid-19. 
The legal action comes as airlines have started to make a tentative return to flying after the majority of fleets 
globally were grounded in late March following widespread lockdowns and travel restrictions.
In April, global air travel hit a low point, with passenger levels about 95 per cent below 2019 levels. Earlier this 
week, Iata, the global airline trade body, warned that the sector was facing a record loss of $84.3bn this year as the 
impact of the coronavirus pandemic made 2020 “the worst year in the history of aviation”.
The Home Office said the quarantine measures were to protect public health and avoid a second coronavirus peak 
of this deadly virus and that meant managing the risk of cases being imported from abroad. “They are informed by 
science, backed by the public and will keep us all safe.”
The department said aviation and tourism had benefited from one of the most generous economic packages 
provided anywhere in the world. “When it is safe for us to do so, we will look at options to increase international 
travel.”
Load-Date: June 13, 2020
End of Document
MPs brand British Airways a ‘national disgrace’ over job cuts
MPs brand British Airways a ‘national disgrace’ over job cuts
 
FT.com
June 12, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 499 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
A group of MPs has branded British Airways a “national disgrace” over the airline’s move to cut up to 30 per cent of 
its workforce and change terms and conditions while staff are on the government’s furlough scheme. 
The House of Commons’ transport select committee on Saturday published a report examining the effect of the 
coronavirus crisis on the aviation sector, which singled out BA and accused the airline of a “calculated attempt to 
take advantage of the pandemic”. 
Huw Merriman, chair of the committee, acknowledged the impact of coronavirus might mean the loss of some jobs 
in the aviation sector was justified but he criticised the depth of the  cuts being made by BA. 
“It falls well below the standards expected from any employer, especially in light of the scale of taxpayer subsidy, at 
this time of national crisis,” said Mr Merriman. “This wanton destruction of a loyal workforce cannot appear to go 
without sanction — by government, parliamentarians or paying passengers who may choose differently in future. 
We view it as a national disgrace.”
Unite, one of BA’s main unions, last month launched a public campaign to highlight what it described as the “  
deplorable actions” taken by the airline, accusing it of effectively planning to sack its 42,000-strong workforce and 
then rehiring about 30,000 staff on worse terms. 
In April, IAG, BA’s parent company, was one of the first major airline groups to announce job cuts as it warned that 
a return to 2019 passenger levels would take “several years”. 
MPs brand British Airways a ‘national disgrace’ over job cuts
Its rivals are taking similar action, with easyJet axing up to 30 per cent of jobs, while Ryanair is looking at reducing 
15 per cent. Virgin Atlantic is cutting about a third of its 10,000-strong workforce as carriers look to restructure in 
light of a slow recovery in air travel. 
The committee’s report said airlines should not “proceed hastily with large-scale redundancies” until the job 
retention scheme ends in October, and the government launches its aviation recovery plan.
In response to the report, BA said: “The government has no plans to help the sector restart and recover as 
evidenced by the introduction of the 14-day quarantine regulation.” 
The airline added that “we find ourselves in the  deepest crisis ever faced by the airline industry. A crisis not of our 
making but one which we must address.”
The committee also called on the government to abandon its  14-day quarantine, which came into effect on 
Monday. Instead, the government should adopt a more flexible and risk-based approach to border control, such as 
the so-called “air bridge” approach. 
It also hit out at the government for a slow response in coming up with a recovery plan for the aviation industry. The 
report called for the government to introduce a temporary six-month suspension of air passenger duty payments 
and 12-month business rates relief for airlines and airports across the UK.
Letter in response to this article:
 Air travel in the age of coronavirus / From Philip Lay, London SW13, UK
Load-Date: June 18, 2020
End of Document
Is now the right time to buy a holiday home abroad?
Is now the right time to buy a holiday home abroad?
 
FT.com
June 12, 2020 Friday 9:59 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 2012 words
Byline: Aleksandra Wisniewska
Body
Mike and Christine, a couple from the English Midlands, had agreed the sale and paid the deposit on a beautiful 
villa in Vence, between Nice and Cannes. They had even bought a car to drive in France. 
The day after they signed the contract, however, all over-70s were told to self-isolate at home by the UK 
government to minimise their risk of catching Covid-19. The couple — who did not want to give their real names — 
got cold feet and pulled out of the deal. 
Like those of many people, Mike and Christine’s plans for buying a second home in warmer climes were thwarted 
by coronavirus, which has led to travel restrictions and lockdowns all over the world — and brought international 
property transactions to a halt.
The couple say they are now taking time to reassess their options. It is not necessarily a bad thing that they pulled 
out of the deal: with the pound regaining some strength against the euro since the middle of March, by mid-April the 
property would have been £87,000 cheaper, thanks to the exchange rate. 
“I am still confident we will get this one over the line, when the time’s right,” says their broker, Serge Cowan, 
founder of the Unique Living Network, which sells luxury property around the world. 
Judging when might be the right time to invest in an overseas property is difficult. With  airline fleets grounded 
globally and countries imposing — or considering imposing — extended quarantine periods for travellers, what will 
Is now the right time to buy a holiday home abroad?
happen to the international holiday-home market this year? Will 2020 see deals dry up — or is now the time to buy 
a beautiful Tuscan villa at a bargain price?
Grounded ambition
Closed borders and travel bans have meant that the number of flights operating are well below usual volumes. As 
of the beginning of June, some European countries were recording a decline in traffic of more than 90 per cent, 
according to OAG, a consultancy tracking flights around the world.
This is beginning to change, however. Some budget airlines, such as Ryanair and easyJet, are expected to resume 
flights this month or next — albeit at a significantly reduced capacity. British Airways is planning to restart a large 
number of flights in July. Air France is aiming for a gradual increase from this month.
With the possibility of special no-quarantine agreements — so called “ travel corridors” between the UK and certain 
Mediterranean resorts — this may be the saving grace for investors who, in the past few months, have seen 
property bookings “fall off the cliff”, according to Robert Green, founder of Sphere Estates, which sells and rents 
luxury homes.
“The first half of this year is probably a write-off,” he says. It will take months before normality returns, especially if 
UK holidaymakers will be put off by the prospect of spending two weeks in quarantine when they return — as 
current government policy dictates. 
Short-term rental landlords will see reduced yields this year, as hosts struggle to fill their homes. “For two months 
we had zero reservations and zero revenue, and all our apartments stood empty,” says Adriano Frigoli, founder of 
Nativo, a company that manages high-end Airbnb properties mostly in Milan and Madrid.
Since mid-May bookings have started again and in Milan, where the outbreak hit earlier than in Madrid, they are at 
80 per cent occupancy. “But the revenue is totally different, at 50-60 per cent of what it used to be,” he says.
Airbnb has announced it will be scaling back its high-end short-break service, Airbnb Luxe, as the company — 
which is to make  a quarter of its workforce redundant— adjusts to economic slowdown in response to the 
outbreak-related slowdown.
“We probably won’t know the full picture [for occupancy rates] until the end of August,” says Green. “But some hotel 
industry experts do not expect a full recovery until at least 2023.”
For buyers, viewing potential holiday homes has become almost impossible, as even private-jet travel depends on 
reopening borders. Despite some initial excitement from estate agents, only a few wealthy people have been willing 
to buy based on virtual viewings or live walk-throughs.
“We have managed to agree a small number of sales in this period, predominantly with clients who viewed before 
the lockdown,” says Tim Swannie, director of buying agent Home Hunts.
Pent-up demand
Despite the difficulty in visiting and buying during lockdown, potential buyers have still been searching for holiday 
homes. While a lot of this might be put down to idle scrolling, some agents believe it is a sign of pent-up demand. 
Swannie says that compared with the same period last year, inquiries at Home Hunts were down only about 12-15 
per cent during lockdown, “which we have found quite encouraging. Over the past 10 days, inquiries [in France] 
have increased quite dramatically, particularly from UK and European buyers,” he adds. “It feels like it is going to be 
a busy summer.” 
Miles, who did not want to give his real name, is among those expected to seal the deal in the next couple of 
months. He intends to purchase a three-bedroom villa at the Soneva Jani resort in the Maldives. The villa sits 
Is now the right time to buy a holiday home abroad?
directly on the water on stilts and decking. Miles had been searching for the right property in the Maldives ever 
since he and his partner took a trip there several years ago.
“It ticks all our boxes,” he says, adding that he is hoping to earn money by renting it out as a short-term let when not 
using it. He is now consulting tax advisers and hoping to finalise the purchase in July. He believes he can buy the 
villa for $6m, reduced from a guide price of $6.5m.
Green expects that transactions will surge once the restrictions are lifted and people are free to move around again, 
and then stabilise. He says many potential buyers now inquire about fast internet connection, private outdoor space 
and extra room for incorporating a home office. 
Portugal’s Algarve, the south of France and the Alps have been the destinations with the most interest, as they are 
easily accessible by car from the UK or elsewhere in Europe. 
“People want to be able to run business from there,” he says, adding that second-home buyers are starting to think 
about using the properties for longer periods. “I do see people working from different parts of Europe especially. 
They own five or six homes and work from wherever,” he adds.
Risk or opportunity?
Chris, a British entrepreneur based in Japan, is looking for a holiday home in Europe, either Tuscany or Puglia in 
Italy, or Bordeaux or Montpelier in France. 
“Property prices in Tokyo and Shanghai are crazy and land comes at a premium. In order to own a nice place with a 
big veranda, I need to be very wealthy indeed,” says Chris, who did not want to give his surname.
“I have been looking for a while, but then I thought the timing might be good from both an altruistic and self-centred 
perspective: it is a good time for money to be going back to the economy and hoping people will be motivated to 
sell,” he says. From his research, he thinks that prices where he is looking are down about 10-15 per cent on where 
they were pre-Covid, and more sellers are willing to negotiate the price. 
“Spending money is good for everyone. I’ve set aside money for a couple of years to make a purchase and now 
feels like the right time to move. Whenever there is a crisis, there is a risk and the opportunity at the same time,” he 
says. 
Some agents believe that discounts could become common for mid-market homes — especially those in harder-to-
reach places such as the Maldives, the Seychelles and the Caribbean. Around the world, Green estimates that 
older, resale properties and those in non-prime locations or with restricted views could have their prices cut by up to 
30 per cent. 
“Now is the good time to start negotiating, even before everything opens up, because you’ve got that uncertainty in 
the market,” he says. “There are definitely deals to be had and sellers realise they need to be flexible, especially 
until markets fully reopen and buyers can travel freely again.”
Agents say that homes at the top of the market are unlikely to be reduced by much. “The absolute best is so rarely 
available that we will find buyers,” says Anthony Lassman, founder of Nota Bene Global, a luxury travel and real-
estate business. He thinks luxury will also be the first market to bounce back once restrictions lift and quarantine is 
not required.
“With interest rates low, affordability to hold a property has never been stronger,” says Hugo Thistlethwayte, head of 
global residential operations at Savills. He adds that demand has already picked up for “I want it now” sales, as 
people are emerging from lockdown and want to spend the summer in their newly purchased homes.
Thistlethwayte has noticed the reversal of a trend prevalent in recent years, where younger buyers have preferred 
smaller city apartments over larger, detached villas — a movement likely propelled by the ease of renting out 
homes on Airbnb. Now the demand is for farmhouses in Provence and Tuscan villas.
Is now the right time to buy a holiday home abroad?
The future is local?
As borders have closed, domestic buyers have replaced overseas buyers, says Thistlethwayte. Developers are also 
trying to adapt to the new situation by building residences for the post-pandemic world. 
One luxury developer in Cyprus — who did not want to be named — has overhauled its master plan for a five-star 
development from high-rise, high-density towers with an adjoining hotel to a villas-only project. It might even 
incorporate an organic farm, making it almost self-sufficient.
House & Home Unlocked 
Sign up for our weekly email newsletter containing guides to the global property market, distinctive architecture, 
interior design and gardens.
 Sign up here with one click
Green, who advises the developer, said that the shift to “Covid-compliant” is the new modus operandi in the 
business. Minimising cross-section pathways, installing air-circulation systems and using materials on which 
bacteria and viruses cannot survive for long are among the features that the industry is now focusing on.
“But hopefully this will pass and won’t become something that we’ll have to live with,” he says.
Ultimately, the second-home market will depend on when and whether consumers feel confident about flying again, 
says Kate Everett-Allen of Knight Frank, on when people will feel comfortable to get on a plane again. She does not 
expect a repeat of the financial crisis of 2008, which saw widespread distressed selling in many parts of the world, 
but thinks buyers will sit on their hands for a while to see what happens.
Holiday homes available to buy now
Beach villa, Corfu, Greece, €800,000
A four-bedroom villa overlooking a beach on the south-west coast of Corfu, about 40 minutes’ drive from Corfu 
Town and the airport. The property has recently had its price cut by €100,000 and is available through Hamptons 
International.    
Treasure Cove Circle, Florida, US, $1.77m 
A three-bedroom, top-floor condo in North Palm Beach, about 30 minutes’ drive from Palm Beach international 
airport. The property, which has more than 2,500 sq ft of internal living space, is available through Christie’s 
International Real Estate. 
Villa, British Virgin Islands, $9.5m
St Bernard’s Hill House is a hilltop estate made up of a main villa and four cottages in Tortola, about 50 minutes’ 
drive from Terrance B Lettsome airport. The property, which has five bedrooms and comes fully furnished, is 
available through Christie’s International Real Estate.   
Villa Anna, Tuscany, Italy, €17.9m
An 18th-century villa with 10 bedrooms in Pietrasanta, about 35 minutes’ drive from Pisa international airport. The 
historic property is surrounded by formal gardens, has views reaching down to the coast and is available through 
Savills.
By Nathan Brooker
Is now the right time to buy a holiday home abroad?
Follow  @FTProperty on Twitter or             @ft_houseandhome on Instagram to find out about our latest stories 
first. Listen to our podcast,             Culture Call, where FT editors and special guests discuss life and art in the time 
of coronavirus. Subscribe on             Apple,             Spotify, or wherever you listen.
Load-Date: June 12, 2020
End of Document
FirstFT: Today’s top stories
FirstFT: Today’s top stories
 
FT.com
June 12, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1590 words
Byline: Eli Meixler, Emily Goldberg, Gordon Smith
Body
How well did you keep up with the news this week? Take our  quiz.
General Mark Milley, the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, issued a rare apology on Thursday for walking with 
Donald Trump in uniform to a church near the White House after police cleared the area of protesters.
“My presence in that moment and in that environment created a perception of the military involved in domestic 
politics,” the general said  in a recorded address to graduates of the National Defense University. 
US defence secretary Mark Esper has already  opened a rift with the president by saying he did not agree with the 
decision to send in the army to clamp down on protests in Washington DC on the night of June 1.
Meanwhile, several lawyers’ groups have said the treatment of those arrested at the demonstrations that night near 
the White House  may constitute a violation of their constitutional rights and are investigating whether to bring a 
case against the police.
A national outcry against systemic racism and rapidly shifting public opinion on the issue have seen large numbers 
of people take to the streets across America and  call for reform of the police. Mr Trump, who has styled himself as 
the “law and order” president, has been widely criticised for his response to the protests.
The  latest polls show the president is failing to appeal to independent voters as he struggles             to regain the 
narrative after his disastrous handling of the coronavirus and the economic shutdown that followed and now the 
countrywide protests against police brutality.
FirstFT: Today’s top stories
Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden, who on Thursday  called on Facebook to crack down on 
misinformation and fact-check political advertising ahead of the US 2020 election, has seen his poll ratings surge. 
(FT, Reuters)
Coronavirus digest 
•
Stock markets in the US and Europe suffered their  worst one-day falls since March on Thursday as 
investors were rattled by the Federal Reserve’s dire assessment of the US economy and fresh concerns 
that a new wave of coronavirus infections was coming. Stocks have             turned positive today.
•
The UK economy shrank at the  fastest monthly rate on record in April as the coronavirus lockdown hit 
demand and activity in all sectors. British Airways, easyJet and Ryanair             are pushing ahead with 
legal action against the UK government over its two-week quarantine period.
•
Brussels plans to  pump billions of euros into advance deals with pharmaceutical companies to secure 
access to potential coronavirus vaccines.
•
Doctors and hospital executives have accused Delhi’s state government of  under-reporting deaths as 
India eases its strict lockdown.
•
Saudi Arabia may  cancel the hajj pilgrimage for the first time since the kingdom was founded in 1932. Do       
      antibody tests work? (FT, WSJ) 
One metre or two? Economic pressure to lift lockdowns has stoked  debate over social distancing. Follow our             
live coverage.
Join FT data journalist John Burn-Murdoch for a Reddit  “Ask Me Anything” about our             coronavirus tracker 
and Covid data at 12pm UK time on Friday June 12.
In the news
KKR asks advisers to ‘share the pain’ The US private equity firm has asked  financial and legal advisers to 
provide discounts on work done this year, even as it has emerged as the most aggressive private equity investor 
during the economic downturn. The group, which has $207bn assets under management, has requested discounts 
of at least 15 per cent from a roster of advisers such as accountants, law firms, intelligence companies and 
consultants. (FT)
Ackman’s ‘blank cheque’ Bill Ackman’s hedge fund Pershing Square has filed confidentially for a listing to  raise 
more than $1bn for a special acquisition vehicle. US activist hedge fund Elliott Management, meanwhile,             is 
demanding Dutch insurer NN Group cut costs, sell non-core assets and invest in riskier assets. Europe’s biggest 
activist investor Cevian Capital has built a significant stake in struggling education group Pearson. (FT)
Quicken files for IPO The US’s largest mortgage lender has filed for what could be the year’s  biggest public 
offering. The listing would mark a milestone for Dan Gilbert, the group’s founder, a billionaire who owns the 
Cleveland Cavaliers basketball team and has poured billions of dollars into projects to revitalise Detroit. Hertz, 
meanwhile, is looking to             sell up to $1bn in stock while in bankruptcy and Instacart, the grocery delivery app, 
nearly             doubled its valuation in a new funding round. (FT)
Tech tensions Twitter suspended tens of thousands of accounts from a Chinese disinformation campaign targeting 
Hong Kong and coronavirus.             Zoom’s role in shutting down a Tiananmen commemoration has stoked 
concerns about security and censorship. (FT)
Unilever’s U-turn Two years after former Unilever chief Paul Polman’s attempt to redomicile the Anglo-Dutch 
group to the Netherlands collapsed in acrimony, his successor Alan Jope is seeking a  single entity in London. But 
unlike in 2018, early shareholder reactions have been positive. (FT)
FirstFT: Today’s top stories
Airbus chief warns UK Airbus chief executive Guillaume Faury warned that UK employees face  “more 
permanent” job cuts than counterparts in France or Germany, which are planning to maintain pandemic wage 
subsidy schemes for up to two years. (FT)
EU looks abroad for WTO chief Paris and Berlin have warned that saving the World Trade Organization  must 
take precedence over having a European chief, a sign of the bloc’s wariness about the vacancy for the global trade 
body’s top job. (FT)
Which country sparked uproar by temporarily suspending reporting of its coronavirus cases and deaths: Brazil, 
India or Russia?  Take our quiz.
The days ahead
Michael Flynn case An appeals court in Washington will hear arguments on a dismissal request from Donald 
Trump’s former national security adviser, which a former judge appointed to offer a counterargument called a  
“gross abuse” of power. (FT)
London Fashion Week goes online London today becomes the first of the four fashion capitals to take its  runway 
shows online. Meanwhile, live performance returns to London’s             Royal Opera House on Saturday for the first 
time since March 17, with a Wayne McGregor ballet premiere and music by Britten, Handel and others. (NYT, ROH)
Is the suit finally dead? Join fashion critic Alexander Fury and FT fashion editor Lauren Indvik in a  discussion at 
12pm UK time on Friday June 12.
What else we’re reading
Boardroom diversity US corporate leaders who championed diversity and inclusion are under pressure to  
address homogeneous boardrooms, where just 4.1 per cent of directors were black, compared with 13.4 per cent of 
the population.             Feminist media are also facing a racial reckoning. (FT, Vox)
US cities need more than ‘Kumbaya’ The white sheriff of Genesee County, Michigan became one of the first 
police officers to defuse the threat of violence by taking the side of demonstrators in America’s biggest antiracism 
protests in 50 years. But protesters won’t be satisfied by gestures of solidarity,  writes Patti Waldmeir. (FT)
Ben Okri on the fight against racism Twelve weeks of lockdown have purified our sense of justice. If anyone 
wants an explanation for the scale of protests following the killing of George Floyd, they need look no further than 
the buried accumulation of  racial prejudices endured for years, for lifetimes, by black people. (FT)
Costs of school closures Closed classrooms put the dilemmas of the pandemic in sharp relief: reversing 
lockdown is perilous, but we cannot sacrifice children’s education indefinitely,  Tim Harford writes. Easing lockdown 
only works if trust is restored,             Chris Giles warns. (FT)
US must increase chip production The US has an unquestioned lead in many parts of the global semiconductor 
industry, from the software and equipment needed to design and manufacture chips, to selling finished products for 
many specialist uses. But when it comes to actually making the dinner plate-sized wafers that are the most 
challenging part of the production process? Not so much,  writes Richard Waters. (FT)
Diamonds aren’t forever A  diamond ring is a financial and emotional investment, one that many consumers are 
loath to make online. With lockdowns in place, the industry has ground to a halt, from mines in South Africa to 
grading in Antwerp and retailers in London’s Hatton Garden and New York’s Diamond District. (FT)
Hero worship Those who would topple statues can often tell you which others should stand in their stead. Real 
progress will come when we  give up the cult of the great man or woman, Janan Ganesh writes. US protests have 
also             resonated in France. (FT)
FirstFT: Today’s top stories
Europe re-emerges, US capitulates As months-long lockdowns lift, a photo journey through six European 
countries captures a  peculiar and fleeting moment of the continent reopening. (NYT)
Retirement under pressure If you were planning on retiring soon, don’t — that is the blunt assessment from 
financial advisers who are warning clients that a “  silver squeeze” will constrict finances due to weaker investment 
returns and contracting labour markets. (FT)
For more weekend reads  subscribe to             Long Story Short, the biggest stories and best reads in one smart 
email — handpicked by a different FT journalist each week.
Video of the day
Charts that count US data journalist Brooke Fox  explains how US law enforcement imprisons and kills more 
African-Americans than any other ethnic group.
Load-Date: June 12, 2020
End of Document
Heathrow to cut jobs as UK quarantine measures compound ‘grim picture’
Heathrow to cut jobs as UK quarantine measures compound ‘grim picture’
 
FT.com
June 11, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 417 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Harry Dempsey in London
Body
London’s Heathrow airport has started cutting front-line jobs as it warned the grim picture facing the aviation 
industry would continue following the UK government’s introduction of a 14-day quarantine on arriving travellers. 
Europe’s busiest airport on Thursday said passenger numbers were at an all-time low in May, down 97 per cent 
compared with the same period last year. 
John Holland-Kaye, chief executive at Heathrow, warned that the airport would have to press ahead with job cuts. 
“Throughout this crisis, we have tried to protect front-line jobs, but this is no longer sustainable, and we have now 
agreed a voluntary severance scheme with our union partners,” said Mr Holland-Kaye. “While we cannot rule out 
further job reductions, we will continue to explore options to minimise the number of job losses.”
Mr Holland-Kaye had previously warned that a delayed recovery for aviation, exacerbated by the government’s 
decision to introduce a 14-day quarantine rule from June 8, could mean up to a third of the airport’s 7,000 jobs may 
be at risk. It has already cut 500 of its 1,500 management roles. 
The airport has now started voluntary redundancies with its 5,500 front-line staff, which include roles such as 
security officers and engineers. The airport on Thursday declined to say how may jobs could be axed.
It comes as British Airways, easyJet and Ryanair last week revealed plans to start legal action against the 
government over its new quarantine rules, which require almost everyone arriving in the country to self-isolate for 
14 days. 
Heathrow to cut jobs as UK quarantine measures compound ‘grim picture’
The airlines claimed that the quarantine rules were “wholly unjustified and disproportionate” because they were 
more severe than those faced by people with Covid-19 in the UK, including the threat of criminal sanction.
Ministers have insisted the  rules are a “necessary” move to protect the spread of coronavirus from abroad as part 
of the government’s strategy to bring the disease under control.
On Thursday, Heathrow renewed its appeal to the UK government to quickly establish “air bridges” to allow travel to 
countries with a low rate of coronavirus infections without quarantining for 14 days. 
European countries including Turkey, Greece, Spain and Portugal are keen to adopt  transport corridors as soon as 
next month, which could help many travel companies survive the sharpest downturn in the sector’s history.
The aviation industry is also calling for a waiver in business rates for all airports in England and Wales for a year, 
the airport said.
Load-Date: June 11, 2020
End of Document
Why Europe may never follow the US airline industry’s path
Why Europe may never follow the US airline industry’s path
 
FT.com
June 11, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 749 words
Byline: Miles Johnson
Body
Until not too long ago, investing in the airline industry was viewed by many as not much better than setting fire to 
money. 
Such has been the pain suffered by generations of operators and their shareholders that rueful observations by 
several high-profile investors have almost become business clichés. 
How do you become a millionaire, quipped Richard Branson? Start as a billionaire and buy an airline. Warren 
Buffett wrote in Berkshire Hathaway’s 2007 letter to shareholders that “if a farsighted capitalist had been present at 
Kitty Hawk [the site of the Wright Brothers' first flight], he would have done his successors a huge favour by 
shooting Orville [Wright] down”.
Indeed from 1960 to 2000, the aggregate profits of the US airline industry would have been enough to pay for the 
delivery of just two 747 jumbo jets. Then, after the 2008 financial crisis, things changed. A wave of 
mergers between US airlines resulted in rapid consolidation.
As the market became less fragmented and operating models leaner, it started to appear that the US airline 
industry would become reliably profitable for the first time in its history.
Operating margins moved from negative to positive. Shares in Delta Air Lines rose fourfold from the start of 2009 to 
the start of 2015. United rose by more than 5.5 times. The “Great Consolidation” had occurred, and even Mr Buffett 
Why Europe may never follow the US airline industry’s path
came to decide that — this time — things would be different. In 2016, in a move that shocked his acolytes, he 
bought stakes in the four largest US airlines.
Investors came to believe that a more consolidated industry would behave in a more predictable fashion and that 
the remaining operators would refrain from brutal price wars that flooded the market with seats and cheap tickets. If 
they all kept in line, all would benefit.
Over recent years, investors and analysts in European airlines have eyed the transformation in the US and started 
to dream that, maybe, the same Great Consolidation could be possible across the Atlantic. 
Unlike in the US, market share in Europe is still highly fragmented, with incumbent formerly state-owned airlines 
competing with big low-cost carriers such as Ryanair and easyJet, and other smaller ones.
Mark Manduca, an analyst at Citi who has long believed that European airline consolidation is inevitable, noted at 
the start of this year — before the pandemic hit — that there was increasing evidence of capacity growth slowing in 
European short-haul, and a widening gap between stronger airlines and weaker ones, which would end up failing or 
being merged.
“Simply put,” he wrote at the start of the year, “in European aviation history we have yet to see a period (such as 
now) when four airlines control so much of the profits of the industry”. These “Big Four”, Air France-KLM, IAG, 
Lufthansa and Ryanair, would increasingly take market share from a “subscale tail” of lossmaking airlines, and the 
industry would start over the next five years to follow what happened in the US.
The industry crisis caused by the pandemic has reminded investors of all the most ugly things about the European 
airline sector. So-called “barriers to exit” in airlines have always been very high, with operators having to make such 
huge capital outlays that they are often compelled to run flights even if they are lossmaking, just to keep cash 
flowing though the business in the short term.
In Europe the situation is worse, because governments are often unwilling to countenance their national carrier 
disappearing. No matter how much money Alitalia loses, for example, no Italian government has considered it 
acceptable simply to let it fail.
The frustrations of Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary, who last month accused German rival Lufthansa of “hoovering up 
state aid like a drunken uncle at a wedding” is a pained acknowledgment that European government cash is vastly 
distorting for the sector. It also makes further mergers complicated.
In the wake of the crisis, as Mr Manduca of Citi has noted, short-haul capacity will contract. Some weaker airlines 
are in difficulties. The strong, such as the “Big Four”, and some others will survive and likely, in time, become 
stronger. The problem in the short term, is the likely price war that will break out as people start flying again this 
summer.
This is good for consumers, obviously. But for investors, Europe’s Great Consolidation looks likely to be postponed 
for many years, while the more profitable future they have been dreaming of remains elusively over the horizon.
Load-Date: June 11, 2020
End of Document
This recovery will be greener than the last one
This recovery will be greener than the last one
 
FT.com
June 7, 2020 Sunday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 682 words
Byline: Pilita Clark
Body
Last Friday was World  Environment Day. Congratulations if you noticed. Even in an ordinary year, this UN-
designated day can be overshadowed by events. 
In this year of pandemic and protest it had little hope, which prompts a wider question: are the mushrooming efforts 
to stave off the great environmental threat of climate change about to be derailed?
When the coronavirus crisis first took hold, I was sure this would happen. The only figures that mattered were the 
ones that dropped into my inbox each day showing the latest Covid-19 death toll and how each country was faring 
in the fight against the virus. They were closely followed by data charting the crushing number of job losses and 
economic collapse. 
These are still vital signs to monitor. But as the months have passed, another set of data has begun to pile up that 
will in time form an important ranking. It will show which countries — and companies — are using this crisis to 
deepen the drive against fossil fuels and which are not.
With at  least $10tn in stimulus measures announced so far, a few entries on the green side of the ledger already 
stand out. Predictably a lot are in Europe, home to Greta Thunberg and flight-shaming.
Electric cars should be cheaper and easier to charge under France’s  €8bn auto sector recovery plan. Air France is 
set to slash domestic flights and cut its overall emissions as a condition of its  €7bn bailout. The EU says green 
policies will be central to its  €750bn recovery plan. 
This recovery will be greener than the last one
But Europe is not alone. Canada’s bailout money for big employers will only go to  firms reporting climate risks to 
their business, using disclosure standards that have been largely voluntary until now. If this paves the way for those 
standards to become widespread and mandatory, it could help shift billions of investor dollars to greener ventures 
and firms. 
Against this, the Trump administration is rolling ahead with efforts to reverse US environmental safeguards and the 
picture is mixed in China and many other countries. 
So will the world end up looking more like the US or Europe? At least one prominent chief executive thinks even 
Europe will end up suspending climate action. “I suspect an awful lot of the environmental agenda and targets will 
be put on the backburner for a number of years,” says Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary. People will still care about the 
environment, the airline boss told a recent  FT conference. But they will care more about “massive unemployment” 
and government indebtedness.
Mr O’Leary has history on his side. Ahead of the last global recession just over a decade ago, he predicted the 
downturn would shift attention from the environment to unemployment.
In the event, only $1 in $6 was spent on sustainable infrastructure, says former Bank of England governor, Mark 
Carney, now an adviser on the next round of UN climate talks.
Those talks themselves add weight to Mr O’Leary’s view. They were due in Glasgow in November, making 2020 a 
year when countries ramped up pressure on each other to cut emissions. The pandemic forced  a delay until 
November 2021.
For what it’s worth though, I think Mr O’Leary will be wrong about this crisis. Too much has changed since the last 
one. Green technology costs have fallen. Green job numbers have grown. Renewable energy companies alone 
employed  11m people globally at the end of 2018, up from about  3.5m in 2010. 
Countries have agreed to  compensate coal workers and other losers in the green energy shift. All this makes it 
much harder to argue climate action automatically costs jobs. 
And it shows why those who did notice World Environment Day last week saw something else that has shifted since 
the last crisis. Hundreds of companies today either back the net zero emissions targets that  have multiplied since 
2018, or say governments should align recovery plans with those goals. That includes Rolls-Royce,  BP, HSBC and 
Heathrow airport. Ryanair is not there yet and Mr O’Leary may speak for a silent majority. But the direction of travel 
is clear and it means this recovery will be shaped in a very different way to the last one.
Load-Date: October 5, 2020
End of Document
UK quarantine regime begins despite airlines’ opposition
UK quarantine regime begins despite airlines’ opposition
 
FT.com
June 7, 2020 Sunday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 564 words
Byline: George Parker and Gill Plimmer in London
Body
Travellers arriving in Britain will on Monday have to self-isolate for 14 days under a quarantine regime described as 
“useless” by airlines, although there are signs Boris Johnson wants to ease restrictions swiftly.
Priti Patel, home secretary, said: “We all want to return to normal as quickly as possible” but claimed the 
quarantine, backed up by fines of £1,000, was justified by scientific data.
But Mr Johnson, facing widespread Conservative unease and the threat of legal action by airlines, is looking to 
negotiate quarantine-free “air bridges” with other European countries.
Turkey, Spain, Greece and Portugal are among the popular holiday destinations that have indicated a willingness to 
strike such a deal, even though the UK continues to have relatively high Covid-19 infection rates.
Rishi Sunak, chancellor, Alok Sharma, business secretary, and Grant Shapps, transport secretary, are pushing for 
an early end to the quarantine, which they say is hitting the British economy and aviation sector.
Patrick Vallance, the government’s chief scientific adviser, said last week that a quarantine was most effective 
where Britain had few cases of coronavirus and other countries had higher rates of infection; neither criteria has 
been met.
But Ms Patel said: “The science is clear that if we limit the risk of new cases being brought in from abroad, we can 
help stop a devastating second wave.”
UK quarantine regime begins despite airlines’ opposition
Travellers arriving in Britain from Monday must complete a “passenger locator form” to supply contact details, travel 
details and the address where they intend to self-isolate.
The Home Office said passengers “could be contacted regularly” to ensure compliance. Some key workers are 
excluded from the policy.
Meanwhile easyJet and Ryanair have joined  British Airways in taking legal action against the government’s 
planned two-week quarantine period on travellers entering Britain.
In a joint letter signed on Friday, the carriers said the move was “disproportionate” and unfair towards foreign 
nationals and UK citizens, and would destroy attempts to rebuild their businesses.
It pointed out that the action went far beyond the restrictions imposed during the first phase of lockdown in the UK 
and was more stringent than the guidelines applied to people who have Covid-19.
The rules do not apply to people living in Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland but do apply to people from countries 
with lower Covid-19 infection rates.
Ryanair said on Sunday it would “support any legal action launched by IAG [parent group of BA] against the UK’s 
ineffective and useless visitor quarantine”.
The airlines accused the government of failing “to identify a valid justification for the blanket nature of the 
regulations”.
Their letter adds: “The estimated proportion of the population infected with coronavirus is far higher than in other 
European countries.
 “The disparity is so great that it reinforces the fact that it is illogical and irrational for the government to be imposing 
self-isolation on persons entering the UK from Union countries.”
They add that the regulations “cannot possibly be justified, since individuals arriving in the UK in Northern Ireland, 
Scotland and Wales or living in those regions will not be bound by them”.
The legal threat follows weeks of tension between the government and BA over coronavirus-related travel 
restrictions and the carrier’s decision to cut up to 12,000 jobs.
Load-Date: June 8, 2020
End of Document
British Airways threatens legal action over UK quarantine plans
British Airways threatens legal action over UK quarantine plans
 
FT.com
June 5, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 583 words
Byline: Bethan Staton in London
Body
The chief executive of British Airways’ owner IAG said he was considering legal action over the UK government’s 
quarantine travel rules, which he claimed had “torpedoed” plans to restart passenger flights next month.
Willie Walsh said IAG was consulting with lawyers about possible action into what he called “terrible” measures 
requiring international passengers to self-isolate for 14 days after arriving in the UK by air. 
“We think it’s irrational and disproportionate and we are giving consideration to a legal challenge to this legislation 
so we are reviewing that with lawyers later today,” the airline chief told Sky News on Friday. 
“I suspect there are other airlines who are doing so because it’s important to point out there was no consultation 
with the industry prior to enacting this legislation and we do believe it’s an irrational piece of legislation,” Mr Walsh 
added. 
Mr Walsh’s threat follows weeks of tension between the government and BA over coronavirus-related travel 
restrictions and the carrier’s decision to cut up to 12,000 jobs. 
Other airlines have echoed BA’s unhappiness over the 14-day rule, which will come into force from June 8. Ryanair 
chief executive Michael O’Leary had called the policy “  pointless posturing” and             Wizz Air head Jozsef 
Varadi said the measures were “extreme” and “very harsh”. 
British Airways threatens legal action over UK quarantine plans
Industry leaders fear quarantine could stop any meaningful restart of business during the industry’s critical summer 
period, and argue it is based on scant scientific evidence. In March, the government’s advisory group Sage said 
border closures would have a “negligible effect” on the spread of Covid-19. 
Tim Alderslade, chief executive of Airlines UK, which represents the sector, is among those calling for air bridges 
allowing for visitors to arrive without the need to isolate. 
“The government needs to ask whether it wants any connectivity this summer,” he said on Thursday. “If it does then 
it must work to get travel corridors established as soon as possible.”
But UK prime minister Boris Johnson  has insisted quarantine rules are a meaningful protection against 
coronavirus. “We need to take steps now to manage the risk of imported cases triggering a second peak,” he said 
earlier this week. 
Responding to Mr Walsh's threat of legal action, Mr Johnson's spokesperson said on Friday that “we want to work 
with industry across the board and that includes with BA." 
In a letter sent to MPs on Thursday, Mr Walsh said that BA had hoped to operate about 40 per cent of its scheduled 
flights in July, but said the plans had been “torpedoed” by the introduction of the quarantine rules.
“British Airways is not generating any revenues and continues to burn through approximately £20m of cash a day. 
The current situation is not sustainable,” he wrote. The company had already taken on an additional £800m of 
short-term debt, he added. 
He said he had had “no contact” with the secretary of state or aviation minister about the measures, aside from a 
25-minute conference call on March 18. 
When home secretary Priti Patel and aviation minister Kelly Tolhurst met with industry heads yesterday, IAG did not 
attend. 
Mr Johnson’s spokesperson said that the government was "disappointed" that the airline chose not to attend 
yesterday’s meeting to discuss the quarantine plans.
With additional reporting by Sebastian Payne.
Tell us about what’s happening around you. Are jobs being cut? Are workers being put at risk? Send your 
tips and stories to coronavirus@ft.com
Load-Date: June 9, 2020
End of Document
City Bulletin: Car groups wield the axe and cut staff numbers
City Bulletin: Car groups wield the axe and cut staff numbers
 
FT.com
June 4, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 900 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
As companies reconcile themselves to a slow recovery from the crisis, the job cuts are starting to mount up. Airlines 
were among the first to announce redundancy plans, with British Airways, Ryanair and easyJet all planning cuts. 
This morning it’s two groups from the motor industry that are planning to slim down. 
Aston Martin is planning to shed up to 500 jobs as part of a plan to reduce the number of cars it produces. Its 
restructuring will save it £28m a year, the carmaker said. And Lookers, one of the UK’s largest networks of car 
dealerships, said this morning it is planning around 1,500 redundancies and the closure, consolidation or 
refranchising of another 12 of its dealerships. The job losses would save it £50m a year, Lookers said. 
The job cuts come as car dealers this week reopened their doors to customers under strict social distancing 
measures. Last month,  supercar makerMcLaren also announced plans to cut 1,200 of its 4,000-strong workforce 
as it reported a £133m loss for the first quarter. 
Briefly
HSBC and Standard Chartered have now  both backed the national security law that China is imposing on Hong 
Kong, legislation that is opposed by the British government. Their support follows similar moves by Swire and 
Jardine Matheson. HSBC’s move is likely to be contentious with both politicians in the UK, where the bank is based, 
and parts of its Hong Kong customer base who see the proposed legislation as potentially overriding the Hong 
Kong justice system and as a threat to the “one country, two systems” framework.
City Bulletin: Car groups wield the axe and cut staff numbers
IG Group, the online trading company, continues to benefit from the boredom of the masses stuck at home and 
market volatility. It said net trading revenue for the final three months of its financial year, which ended last month, 
would be more than twice the level in the same period last year (£259m rather than £118m). Full-year net trading 
revenues will be 36 per cent higher, at £649m. 
Young’s, the pub group, is planning to have opened its pubs by August 3. But it reckons trading for its 2021 
financial year, which runs until the end of next March, will be “materially below average”. It expects trading to return 
to more normal levels after that. 
Finally, Fevertree said that while sales to pubs and bars — which make up 50 per cent of its UK sales — had been 
“severely impacted” by the lockdown, sales for customers to drink at home (aka “off-trade” sales) were up almost a 
quarter year-on-year in the first full-month of the shut down. In the US and northern Europe sales cater to off-trade 
customers and so had been robust, but southern Europe had been more severely affected. 
Coronavirus Spotlight
Law firms have reined in recruitment for all but the most important roles as part of a frantic cost-cutting effort, 
bringing a halt to one of the  most active recruitment markets. Partner moves fell by almost 30 per cent in March-
April compared with the same point last year, putting lateral recruitment at its second-slowest rate for 10 years. The 
freeze takes a particular toll on more junior lawyers keen to move: instead, one recruiter is advising associates not 
to try to shift, but to haggle for a pay rise instead.
Beyond the Square Mile 
Adidas’s sales in China  rebounded quicker than expected after lockdown restrictions were lifted. The world’s 
second-largest sportswear maker disclosed on Thursday that last month’s sales in China were higher than in 2019. 
Rival Nike warned investors in April that it would take several months until sales in China were back to last year’s 
level. However, despite the upbeat sales performance in China, Adidas repeated an earlier warning that group 
revenue in the current quarter would be 40 per cent below the same period last year.
Hedge funds are getting ready for  another slump in stock markets after growing uneasy that surging prices do not 
reflect the economic problems ahead. The S&P 500 index completed its best 50-day run in history on Wednesday, 
according to LPL Financial, closing within 8 per cent of its record high of mid-February. But some hedge fund 
managers fear that equity investors, used to buying the dips during the decade-long bull market that ended in 
March’s sharp sell-off, have become too complacent about how quickly economies can recover from the 
coronavirus crisis and how effective stimulus packages from central banks and governments can be.
The business database provider ZoomInfo raised $935m on Wednesday from an initial public offering that  
received strong investor demand. The offering marked the first significant US technology IPO since the pandemic 
rattled financial markets in late February and offered further evidence of the pent-up demand among investors for 
the shares of newly public companies. Hours earlier, shares in Warner Music             surged 20 per cent on their 
debut, valuing the music label at $15.4bn.
Essential comment before you go
Nicola Rollock
It’s time for white people  to step up for black colleagues. People of colour need active allyship from their white 
counterparts at this pivotal moment for race relations.
Lombard SSP, which provides basic sustenance to rail and air travellers, on Wednesday  passed an invention test 
worthy of a MasterChef final. It dished up a recipe to turn shareholders’ 6p final dividend into shares.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can             sign-up here.
City Bulletin: Car groups wield the axe and cut staff numbers
Load-Date: June 4, 2020
End of Document
Lufthansa chief says €9bn bailout larger than needed for survival
Lufthansa chief says €9bn bailout larger than needed for survival
 
FT.com
June 3, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 569 words
Byline: Joe Miller in Frankfurt and Peggy Hollinger in London
Body
Lufthansa chief executive Carsten Spohr has admitted that the group’s €9bn bailout package from the German 
government is larger than what it needs to survive, and is designed to ensure the airline maintains a “global leading 
position”.
Mr Spohr’s comments come after the European Commission warned against state aid being used to give the group 
an unfair advantage and strong criticism from low-cost rival Ryanair, which has pledged to launch a legal challenge 
once the bailout is approved by antitrust authorities.
Margrethe Vestager, the EU’s competition chief, said on Friday there was a “high risk” of market distortion, as she 
defended  Brussels’ demands for Lufthansa to relinquish lucrative slots at Frankfurt and Munich airports.
On Wednesday, after Lufthansa’s supervisory board had accepted the EU’s conditions, Mr Spohr conceded that 
with €4bn in existing liquidity, the Frankfurt-based group did not need the full €9bn from the administration of 
Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Asked by the Financial Times if Lufthansa could have got by with less, Mr Spohr said: “Yes, but it was not just about 
survival.”
He added: “The German government was focused on how Lufthansa can maintain its position as a German global 
champion, not just how it can avoid insolvency.”
Lufthansa chief says €9bn bailout larger than needed for survival
Speaking to analysts earlier, the former pilot said the airline sought a larger sum because “we didn’t want to go to 
the edge of what we needed”.
“We are Germans, we are boring, we love safety,” he said.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary said Mr Spohr’s comments confirmed the Irish carrier’s position that the 
state aid was illegal. 
Lufthansa was going to maintain its position as a global brand solely because of its “government’s crack cocaine”, 
he told the FT, adding that the rescue package “massively distorts the playing field” for European airlines.
Mr O’Leary warned that Ryanair’s legal challenge could drag on for several years, by which stage “untold damage 
will have been done” to competitors.
In  an article for the FT on Wednesday, Mr O’Leary, also cautioned that the EU was waving through state aid for 
airlines with “no or inadequate conditions attached”.
But Mr Spohr insisted that  Lufthansa’s package — the largest corporate bailout in Germany since the start of the 
Covid-19 crisis — was “very much in line with the size of the company”.
Lufthansa, which includes Austrian, Brussels, Swiss and Eurowings airlines, has also been seeking state aid from 
other European governments.
The group secured €1.4bn from Switzerland in April, and Mr Spohr revealed that additional state aid from Austria 
could be forthcoming this week.
Negotiations with the Belgian government, he added, were “a little more complicated”.
Earlier on Wednesday, Lufthansa warned it would be forced to take “far-reaching restructuring measures” to reduce 
costs over the next few years.
The carrier, which swung to a net loss of more than €2bn in the first quarter, said it was burning through €800m a 
month, and that the reimbursement of cancelled tickets would continue to be a drag.
Europe’s second-largest airline said subsidiary Brussels Airlines would reduce its workforce by a quarter, while 
Austrian Airlines would cut staff costs by a fifth. 
It did not announce how many jobs would be lost at its core Lufthansa brand, although Mr Spohr has spoken of the 
group having a surplus of 10,000 staff as it becomes a smaller airline, with at least 100 fewer planes.
Load-Date: June 3, 2020
End of Document
EU support for flag carriers risks long-term airline industry catastrophe
EU support for flag carriers risks long-term airline industry catastrophe
 
FT.com
June 3, 2020 Wednesday 11:08 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 653 words
Byline: Michael O’Leary
Body
The writer is chief executive officer of Ryanair 
Covid-19 is a catastrophe for Europe, its citizens and its businesses. Few industries have been hit as hard as the 
airline sector. Carriers that are essential for Europe’s connectivity and are the lifeblood of business activity and 
tourism have seen demand collapse and their viability jeopardised. 
With the right response, we can keep the catastrophe short-term. But by letting the richest European countries once 
again prop up their bloated flag carriers, with no or inadequate conditions attached, the EU risks damaging the 
health of European aviation and the single market long after the pandemic has gone. This would be a betrayal of 
the EU’s historic success in building a dynamic single market in air travel.
Of course, European companies and employees need short term support. And there are some good examples of 
schemes open to all airlines, such as the UK’s Covid Corporate Financing Facility. Germany has allowed all airlines 
to defer payment of air travel taxes. 
Sadly, though, these are exceptions. Italy’s €500m Covid-19 fund is limited to airlines with a licence issued by Italy, 
in breach of EU rules. France will only  defer taxes for French flag carriers. And Sweden has excluded all airlines 
based outside its territory from its             €455m loan guarantee scheme. 
An eye-watering €9bn has already been approved without conditions to prop up Air France, SAS, Condor and 
Finnair; over the weekend, the commission dropped its original demands and agreed a much-diluted package of 
EU support for flag carriers risks long-term airline industry catastrophe
commitments in exchange for a record €9bn in state aid to Lufthansa; more is on the way such as the pledged €2-
4bn aid package from the Netherlands for KLM.
Ryanair has not received any aid granted to country-of-origin airlines. Nor are we asking for it. But we do want a 
level playing field. We are a truly European airline, not a national one. We have always responded to crises by 
tightening our belt and innovating. This is the way forward for European aviation.
The EU needs to rediscover the courage it had when it took on vested interests and created the single aviation 
regime: for the first time airlines could fly to and from anywhere in Europe. This was a regulatory revolution. We and 
other low-fare airlines turned it into commercial reality, creating new routes at affordable prices, changing the 
mindset of European travellers and transforming the economic fortunes of isolated regions and depressed cities 
across the continent. 
Today’s bailouts are regressive, unfair and unlawful. They will set the clock back, threatening the future of 
European aviation at least as much as the pandemic itself. The commission must defend its independence, stand 
firm against powerful member states, uphold the law, and build a single, coherent framework that promotes 
competitiveness, connectivity and a cleaner environment. 
State support must be allowed only on strict conditions: it must not be reserved for airlines originating in the country 
granting the aid, it must be accessible to all, time-limited, and targeted on relieving cash flow issues, like payroll 
support and suspension or deferral of aviation taxes, airport fees and air traffic control charges. The commission 
must tackle the biggest distortion of all: the bias in favour of national airlines from big countries with deep pockets. 
Covid-19 is receding to the point where we can prepare to resume flying in time for summer. With the right health 
measures in place, this will kick-start the tourist industry. Now is not the time to unwind the single market and undo 
its enormous benefits. After all we have been through, it would be a tragedy if European air transport emerges from 
the pandemic less competitive than before, with inefficient monopolies effectively renationalised and free to 
increase fares, reduce choice and engage in predatory conduct that drives low-cost competitors from the market.
Load-Date: June 3, 2020
End of Document
Frequent flyer: stories from the airline refund battle
Frequent flyer: stories from the airline refund battle
 
FT.com
June 1, 2020 Monday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 663 words
Byline: Michael Skapinker
Body
My column on air passengers’ difficulties in obtaining the refunds to which they are legally entitled prompted many 
responses, both in the comments section and in emails. Readers had their own stories and some, as we shall see, 
thought I had been unfair.
To make up for the cancellation of ceremonies such as the Olivier Awards and the Turner Prize, I have decided to 
group the reactions into a series of awards.
The Loreto Prize
This is named after Our Lady of Loreto, designated by the Vatican in 1920 as the patron saint of aviation. The prize 
goes to below-the-line commenter Jacques5646, who said that while he “felt sorry for those low-cost users who 
have painstakingly saved the money for their annual vacation”, the rest of us should consider the airline workers 
whose jobs were at stake and the airlines that risked going bust. Music-festival ticket holders were holding off on 
demanding refunds in order to save the events for future years, he said. “What about [doing the same for] your 
favourite airline (even if it treats you more and more like cattle)?”
The Severus Snape Award
This prize takes its name from the villainous Harry Potter character who had, it transpired, actually been carrying 
out valorous deeds all along. Last time, I shamed British Airways for offering vouchers online but requiring 
Frequent flyer: stories from the airline refund battle
passengers who wanted refunds to call a number, which was often impossible to reach. BA has long been a villain 
for this column’s readers, but on this occasion many leapt to its defence.
“I phoned BA, got through in under two minutes, had a full cash refund offered within a few minutes and, 
notwithstanding the following day was a bank holiday, received the money in my bank account two days later,” one 
reader emailed me.
The Granny Award
This prize is based on an interview Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, gave to the FT in 2003, in which he 
told passengers who asked for their money back because their granny was ill: “What part of no refund don’t you 
understand?”
One FT reader told me that after weeks of waiting for his Ryanair refund, he contacted the airline via Twitter. “I duly 
received an email which I foolishly thought might contain the details of my refund.” Instead, it had a voucher 
attached. “If I did not want this voucher then I should click on the link for a full refund. Guess where that took me? 
Yes, to the Ryanair page where you could claim YOUR VOUCHER.”
The rules do not require airlines to refund money if the passenger’s granny is ill, but they do require a prompt refund 
when flights are cancelled. Ryanair told me that anyone who didn’t want a voucher would get their money “once this 
unprecedented crisis is over”.
So the Granny Award goes, fittingly, to Ryanair, for its failure to know the answer to the question: “Which part of the 
law don’t you understand?”
The Brass Neck Trophy
This goes to Air France-KLM for palming off an FT reader by saying that a number of EU member states had asked 
the European Commission to amend the rule that passengers have a right to their money back. Some governments 
have indeed made this request, but the Commission has said no.
But what clinched the prize was the airline telling the customer that “in the Netherlands, the Minister of 
Infrastructure & Water Management, who has responsibility for transport, instructed the Transport Inspectorate to 
accept that airlines do not have to refund the ticket price to passengers” — despite the clarity of the EU law to the 
contrary.
I had hoped to present Air France-KLM with a proper trophy of a brass neck but, with factory closures, this has not 
been possible, so I hope they will accept a voucher instead.
Follow Michael on Twitter  @Skapinker or email him at 
Follow  @FTLifeArts on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first. Listen to our podcast,             Culture Call, 
where FT editors and special guests discuss life and art in the time of coronavirus. Subscribe on             Apple,             
Spotify, or wherever you listen.
Load-Date: June 1, 2020
End of Document
Companies should start showing more national loyalty
Companies should start showing more national loyalty
 
FT.com
May 31, 2020 Sunday 10:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 655 words
Byline: Elisabeth Braw
Body
The writer is a senior research fellow at Rusi, a think-tank
During the coronavirus crisis, democratic governments have discovered — again — that businesses act in their own 
interest, not in the interests of the country where they happen to be based. 
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary wants to relaunch 40 per cent of flights in July, whether or not it suits 
Ireland, the UK or any other government. Coffee chains closed during Britain’s lockdown, despite the government 
encouraging cafés to stay open for takeaways. The issue predates the pandemic: UK entrepreneur James Dyson, a 
vocal supporter of Brexit Britain’s economic potential, has moved his company’s headquarters to Singapore. 
All this suggests that nationalities matter less than they once did. When McDonald’s opened its first restaurant in 
Moscow 30 years ago, it was seen as a symbol of US victory over the Soviet Union. McDonald’s remains a 
quintessentially American company, but today its  leadership includes executives from Poland and the UK. The 
chain was until recently led by another Briton.
The picture is the same in most companies that operate globally. Executives hail from a wide range of countries, 
have lived in more countries still and consider themselves international creatures. In 2018, only about half of FTSE 
100 CEOs were British; the rest  hailed from 20 other countries. The trend extends beyond the UK. Indra Nooyi, 
former chief executive of PepsiCo, was born in India. Rajeev Suri, who runs Nokia of Finland, is a Singaporean 
citizen. Stefano Pessina, an Italian, is chief executive of the Anglo-American drugstore chain Walgreens Boots 
Alliance.
Companies should start showing more national loyalty
Companies have gone transnational along with their top executives: Volvo Cars, once closely identified with its 
home country of Sweden, is now owned by Geely of China. That’s how globalisation works. And, until now, it has 
largely worked well. Governments have not insisted that companies act in the national interest, despite complaints 
about tax avoidance and offshoring. As long as they create jobs, they have been allowed to go on their merry 
commercial way without consideration for obligations to their home countries.
Unsurprisingly, during Covid-19 and other recent crises, many companies have not prioritised the interests of their 
home countries. Governments certainly can’t expect their businesses and executives to act out of patriotism. And in 
a world of increasing foreign ownership and overseas operations, to which country should a company show 
allegiance? 
But if we have learnt anything during this crisis, it is that governments would achieve a lot more with some goodwill 
from businesses. Amazon, which has prospered during the pandemic, could enhance conditions for its workers. 
Ryanair could accept governmental pleas for empty middle seats.
By contrast, during the cold war, the Swedish government made clear that it expected Volvo and other market 
pillars to do their part for the nation during a crisis. It designated them “K Companies”, involved them in war 
planning and underwrote their preparedness efforts. For the past several years, the Pentagon, the US Department 
of Energy and other American government departments have held regular meetings with senior executives to 
inform them about national security threats.
Such initiatives could be expanded. To be sure, no business leader likes commitments to causes that don’t 
generate revenues, and many companies are torn between their home base and their foreign owners. But the 
alternative would see countries further weakened during future crises. Liberal democracies face an unpalatable 
combination of threats from mother nature and hostile states.
Such deterioration is in no one’s interest. Governments could, of course, simply nationalise vital businesses. After 
all, a government-run coffee chain or airline would have to obey the rules around opening. Business leaders, unite! 
For national wellbeing, that is.
Load-Date: May 31, 2020
End of Document
EU denies creating ‘extra hurdles’ for Lufthansa bailout
EU denies creating ‘extra hurdles’ for Lufthansa bailout
 
FT.com
May 29, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 512 words
Byline: Joe Miller in Frankfurt
Body
Margrethe Vestager, the EU competition chief, has rejected accusations that Brussels is creating “extra hurdles” for 
the €9bn bailout of Lufthansa, after the  German group’s supervisory board balked at requests to relinquish lucrative 
slots at its hub airports in Frankfurt and Munich.
Speaking to journalists on Friday, Ms Vestager said rescue packages in which states injected large amounts of 
capital would be seen by investors as “a strengthening of the company”, and thus make it easier for saved 
businesses to raise money.
“There is a high risk that if you hold market power, that you are a big impressive company and you get a lot of aid, 
that competition will be disturbed,” she added.
On Monday, Germany agreed to support its national carrier with a capital injection of €5.7bn, as well as €3bn in 
government-backed loans, and €300m-worth of new Lufthansa shares, which would give Berlin a 20 per cent stake 
in the airline.
In the case of a hostile takeover attempt, Angela Merkel’s administration retains the right to increase its position to 
25 per cent plus one share, which is a blocking minority in German law.
However, despite Lufthansa being  weeks away from running out of cash, the company’s supervisory board refused 
to approve the bailout package on Wednesday, delaying the extraordinary general meeting needed to ratify the 
deal.
EU denies creating ‘extra hurdles’ for Lufthansa bailout
The board of Europe’s second-largest airline said it needed time to assess the impact of demands from the 
European Commission that it  give up some slots in Munich and Frankfurt, where it holds two-thirds of the available 
capacity. 
The group includes Austrian, Brussels, Swiss and Eurowings airlines.
Leading figures from Germany’s governing CDU and CSU parties have also strongly opposed the EU’s suggested 
remedies. Markus Söder, the prime minister of Bavaria, said he feared the slots would be given to low-cost 
operators, who would offer less secure jobs.
Michael O’Leary, the boss of Ryanair, threatened to lodge a complaint with the EU against the bailout, which he 
claims will “further strengthen Lufthansa’s monopoly like grip on the German air travel market”.
While not explicitly mentioning Ryanair, Ms Vestager said slots would be at the “centre of the debate” as they are a 
“limited” and “valuable” resource.
Ms Vestager’s comments came as 10 unions from across Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Belgium  wrote to the 
commission, warning the body not to impose “massive restrictions” on Lufthansa.
“Neither employees of the Lufthansa group nor the citizens of Europe will understand if tens of thousands of jobs 
are lost not because of Covid-19, but because of conditions imposed by the EU Commission,” the letter read.
The unions also cautioned against giving up slots to low-cost competitors, who “have disregarded the rights of 
employees for years and have passed on their business risk to the workforce”.
On Friday, rating agency Moody’s warned that a “failure to swiftly finalise the negotiations on the support 
package . . . at a time when Lufthansa's liquidity position is eroding rapidly” could lead to a downgrade.
Load-Date: May 29, 2020
End of Document
Best of Lex: stunting, staunching and streaming
Best of Lex: stunting, staunching and streaming
 
FT.com
May 29, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 820 words
Byline: Vanessa Houlder
Body
Dear readers,
Tear gas, pepper spray and water cannons returned to the streets of Hong Kong this week, as China took 
unprecedented steps to limit dissent.
It was a sombre backdrop for an eye-catching announcement by Hong Kong’s stock exchange group, which has 
secured a key derivatives licensing agreement previously held by its Singapore rival.
Lex thinks this is a smart move: its value was reflected in the sharp drop in Singapore Exchange’s share price. But 
the new contracts may not rake in enough trading fees to offset the potential departure of international funds. For 
Lex,  betting on HKEX’s future now looks as risky as the derivatives contracts the exchange is taking on. 
The fear of capital flight is also casting a shadow over the city’s  property industry. Its largest developers have 
already lost more than a quarter of their value this year. Lex reckons the bottom of the sector is not yet in sight. 
As Beijing tightens its grip on Hong Kong, US-China relations are fast deteriorating. That has created a sense of 
urgency on the part of Chinese companies. They are keen to take advantage of ultra-low US borrowing rates while 
they can. 
The window for such deals may now be closing. But computer games group Tencent has managed to pull off the 
largest Chinese corporate debt deal this year. Demand was strong: its $6bn dollar  bond sale was priced more 
tightly than expected.  
Best of Lex: stunting, staunching and streaming
By contrast German airline Lufthansa had little option but to go cap in hand to its government for a bailout. 
Lufthansa’s €9bn lifeboat is notable both for its  size and structure, Lex said. Berlin may end up with a 20 per cent 
stake and two seats on the board. 
Job cuts could be harder as a result. Low-cost rival easyJet does not have that constraint. Its shares rallied as it 
announced plans to reduce staff numbers by up to 30 per cent. It justified the cuts by assuming air travel would not 
return to normal until 2023, a view Lex described as  unduly pessimistic.
Still, there is no doubting the challenges the industry faces. One of many is the  cost of refunds. These could be 
huge for both the travel and retail industries, said Lex. Airline Ryanair is processing 10m a month, 1,000 times its 
usual level. 
A high-profile casualty of the pandemic’s disruption to the travel industry has been Hertz. The US car rental 
company has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Its  vulnerability stemmed from its decision to own a large portion of 
its fleet outright rather than through “buyback” agreements with carmakers. 
Hertz’s demise will cause collateral damage to the broader auto industry. The company risks pouring yet more 
supply into the moribund used car market. It has already cancelled most new car orders. 
The downturn in the global car market is just one of the problems facing the Renault-Nissan alliance. It needs to  fix 
a relationship damaged by the spectacular downfall of former joint boss Carlos Ghosn. This week the companies 
ruled out a merger, while setting out plans to preserve their alliance. Investors need it to endure. Sharing resources 
— in production and electric car development too — is the only way for both to stay afloat.
There is a chance, though, that demand for cars will rally thanks to prolonged social distancing. Other companies 
are seeing the odd bright spot too. 
Venerable department store chain Macy’s looks prescient for having resisted pressure to undertake sale-and-
leasebacks deals four years ago. At that stage, a hedge fund judged its property to be worth more than its 
enterprise value. The company has now issued bonds  secured by its stores and looks like it can ride out the storm.
More good news. Danish  wind developer Orsted should benefit from green-tinted stimulus measures. When 
politicians and bankers open the taps to promote recovery, it can expect a soaking, Lex said.
Nor has the pandemic held back the growth of music streaming services. Those of Warner Music, the company 
behind the likes of Ed Sheeran, rose 9 per cent year on year in April. The company is now pressing ahead with 
plans to raise as much as $1.82bn in an  initial public offering. But with billionaire boss Len Blavatnik planning to 
stay in control, investors may want to steer clear.
Still, there is a case for buying the music, if not the shares. Streaming has revived the music business. Once 
dismissed as in terminal decline, the industry has enjoyed a renaissance in recent years. Just one of several 
potential silver linings for business amid the gloom. 
Enjoy the weekend,
Vanessa HoulderLex writer 
Best of Lex articles
 Hong Kong/HKEX: future planning
 Hong Kong/property: developing story
 Tencent/Chinese dollar bonds: get ’em while they’re hot
 Lufthansa/Fiat: hoop screams
Best of Lex: stunting, staunching and streaming
            EasyJet: the sack race
 Retail refunds: frocky horror show
 Hertz: collateral damage
 Nissan/Renault: frenemies with benefits
 Macy’s: land grab
 Orsted/offshore wind: a verdant outlook
 Warner Music IPO: magnifying Len
Load-Date: May 29, 2020
End of Document
EasyJet : the sack race
EasyJet: the sack race
 
FT.com
May 28, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 420 words
Body
EasyJet plans to reduce staff numbers by up to  30 per cent. The low-cost European carrier justifies the cuts by 
citing trade association forecasts that air travel will not return to normal until 2023. These are unduly pessimistic. 
The Spanish costas are reopening. Shares in travel groups are leaping. Ryanair and Wizz Air expect passenger 
volumes to recover some time next year.
EasyJet employees may be forgiven for wondering whether the business is snatching at a once-in-a-lifetime 
opportunity to lower its cost base.
In fairness to Johan Lundgren, the job of chief executive is pretty horrible. Stalled demand and brief but credible 
fears of bankruptcy aside, he has had to deal with a demanding  shareholder and a big             cyber attack. 
One pre-pandemic constant was the complaint that easyJet’s operating margins are a lot weaker than those of 
Ryanair. The figure for the last full financial year was 7.3 per cent compared to 13.3 per cent for the Irish airline, 
according to S&P Global. Futile to insist that easyJet flies to pricier airports. Investors are fond of invidious 
comparisons and the pairs trades these inspire.
Average pay at easyJet is some £32,000 a year, according to the PayScale website. So shedding 4,500 jobs could 
save around £140m annually, almost 3 per cent of total costs. EasyJet’s share price jumped by more than 4 per 
cent as shareholders applauded the reduction in overheads. That contributed to a three-day rally of around 32 per 
cent.
EasyJet has some £1.5bn of liquidity. It reckons it could raise more from selling and leasing back part of its aircraft 
fleet, up about a fifth from April’s estimate to a range of £500m-£650m.
EasyJet : the sack race
This last number seems surprising given that it must be a lessors’ market right now. Executives at easyJet 
disagree, claiming there is plenty of interest in their fleet. But that conflicts with their downbeat assessment of future 
passenger numbers. The inconsistency is troubling, albeit that Mr Lundgren concedes full recovery could come 
before 2023.
Never waste a crisis. EasyJet’s job cuts may help it weather a lengthy travel industry downturn, or simply boost 
profitability if demand bounces back quickly. Watch out for other corporations cutting headcounts sharply in coming 
days. The time when this can be explained as pandemic crisis management may soon be over.
If you are a subscriber and would like to receive alerts when Lex articles are published, just click the button “Add to 
myFT”, which appears at the top of this page above the headline. 
Load-Date: May 28, 2020
End of Document
EasyJet to cut 4,500 jobs and reduce capacity
EasyJet to cut 4,500 jobs and reduce capacity
 
FT.com
May 28, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 604 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Sarah Provan in London
Body
EasyJet plans to cut up to 30 per cent of its 15,000-strong workforce as it becomes the latest airline to warn that the 
aviation industry faces a slow recovery from the upheaval wrought by coronavirus. 
The low-cost carrier said it needed to axe about 4,500 jobs as it looks to reshape the business on the basis that 
passenger demand will not return to 2019 levels until 2023. 
EasyJet on Thursday also laid out plans to fly about 30 per cent of its normal capacity across July, August and 
September, which means taking a more cautious approach than budget rivals Ryanair and Wizz Air. 
Ryanair this month confirmed plans to resume flights in July at about 40 per cent of capacity, before ramping it up to 
about 60 to 70 per cent by September. 
Wizz Air expects to run about 70 per cent of its flights in July and August, subject to an easing of travel restrictions. 
It has already started flying about 10 per cent of its capacity in May. 
In an interview with the Financial Times, easyJet’s chief executive Johan Lundgren acknowledged that some other 
airlines were more optimistic of a recovery before 2023. 
“I think we have done it on a prudent, and we believe on a conservative but still realistic, basis. Truth of the matter, 
nobody knows. Nobody would be happier than ourselves if demand was picking up earlier than that,” he said.
EasyJet to cut 4,500 jobs and reduce capacity
EasyJet shares rose 4 per cent to 736.92p by lunchtime trading in London after the job cuts were announced, 
although they are still about 50 per cent lower compared with the end of February.
The cuts come almost a month after British Airways said it would be axing up to 30 per cent of its 42,000-strong 
workforce, while Ryanair and Virgin Atlantic have said they will cut up to 15 per cent and about 30 per cent 
respectively. 
As well as cutting staff, easyJet said it was looking at closing bases at airports. The carrier said it would also reduce 
its aircraft fleet to about 302 planes by the end of 2021, which is 51 lower than what was anticipated before the 
pandemic struck. 
The airline, which has had to ground almost its entire fleet since the end of March following lockdowns and travel 
restrictions across Europe, has already said it will restart a small number of flights on June 15, which will mostly 
involve flying domestic routes in the UK and France. 
It comes at a difficult time for easyJet. The budget carrier is in the  middle of a battle with its founder and biggest 
shareholder Stelios Haji-Ioannou over a multibillion-pound order for 107 Airbus aircraft. 
The airline held a general meeting last week in response to Sir Stelios’s call to remove four directors, and about 58 
per cent of shareholders voted against each resolution. 
This week Andrew Findlay, chief financial officer,  announced plans to leave the group a year from now, just days 
after he survived Sir Stelios’s attempt to oust him.
On Thursday, Sir Stelios hit out at easyJet again and said it should stop paying Airbus money first by cancelling the 
aircraft order, rather than cutting staff. Earlier this month he offered a multimillion-pound reward for “useful 
information” in his fight to stop the aircraft order. 
Mr Lundgren said the company had sought to establish a constructive relationship with Sir Stelios following the 
general meeting last week. 
“The key thing was the vote was so clear, that there is no support whatsoever for the argument to terminate the 
Airbus contract. Therefore that needs to be considered decided and now one needs to move on,” he said. 
Tell us about what’s happening around you. Are jobs being cut? Are workers being put at risk? Send your 
tips and stories to coronavirus@ft.com
Load-Date: May 28, 2020
End of Document
City Bulletin: EasyJet announces plans to axe up to 30% of staff
City Bulletin: EasyJet announces plans to axe up to 30% of staff
 
FT.com
May 28, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 854 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
EasyJet is the latest airline joining the queue to cut jobs. Following similar announcements by Ryanair and British 
Airways, the low-cost airline on Thursday said it would shortly launch a consultation to reduce staff numbers by up 
to 30 per cent. Last year it employed 15,000 people. 
The aviation industry has been adjusting to what looks like a slow recovery in passenger traffic. EasyJet said on 
Thursday that, in line with projections from the International Air Transport Association (Iata), it didn’t expect 2019 
levels of demand to return until 2023 and would operate a smaller fleet to reflect that. 
Travel companies’ shares have rallied sharply in recent days after signs lockdowns were lifting and travel 
restrictions eased. EasyJet said on Thursday that between July and September, it plans to operate at around 30 per 
cent capacity compared to the same time last year. Its first flights resume on June 15 on mainly domestic UK and 
French routes. So far, booking trends on resumed flights had been encouraging, it added. 
Briefly
On Wednesday, our  colleagues on Lex warned about fast fashion outlet Boohoo that “any overpriced buyout of 
PrettyLittleThing [a brand it part-owns, run by the Boohoo co-founder’s son] would now attract loud criticism”. On 
Thursday, Boohoo has announced it is buying out the minority shareholders, for a price of up to £324m. It follows a       
      short-seller report on Boohoo that centred on the PLT stake, published earlier this week. 
City Bulletin: EasyJet announces plans to axe up to 30% of staff
Cineworld has secured agreement from its lenders to amend the covenants on its credit facility to give it extra 
headroom, as well as securing another $110m in liquidity through an increase in its revolving credit facility. The 
changes should give it enough headroom to cope even if cinemas remain closed to the end of the year, Cineworld 
said — but if everything goes to plan, all its cinemas should reopen in July. 
Daily Mail and General Trust said revenues had fallen by an underlying 23 per cent in April, and the group had 
made a small adjusted operating loss of £3m in the month. The consumer media, UK property information and 
events and exhibitions businesses have been particularly hard hit, though other units still continue to deliver growth. 
On Wednesday IWG, the serviced office group formerly known as Regus, announced a placing and retail offer to 
raise £320m. Chief executive Mark Dixon is heavily backing the cash call: he’s putting in £91m, taking up almost 30 
per cent of the offer. 
Also out on Thursday are updates from transport groups Stagecoach and FirstGroup. 
Coronavirus Spotlight
When China’s Hubei province locked down in January, weeks after coronavirus emerged in the capital Wuhan, 
frantic efforts were made to keep one local factory running.  This is the story of how Reckitt Benckiser kept Dettol 
flowing through the pandemic — and not only sustained production, but raised it quickly. 
Beyond the Square Mile 
Boeing plans to dismiss  more than 12,000 workers in the US, it said on Wednesday, even as it reactivates the 
assembly line for the troubled 737 Max. The lay-offs, which will start this week, will be a mixture of voluntary and 
involuntary departures and will include operations in Australia, New Zealand and Canada as well as its home US 
market. In a memo to staff David Calhoun, chief executive, said a reduction in the number of orders from its airline 
customers meant “fewer jobs on our lines and in our offices” were needed. He did say, though, that there were 
some “green shoots” for the aircraft maker, with customers reporting more bookings than cancellations over the US 
holiday weekend.
Big technology companies are hunting for deals at their fastest pace in years, racking up acquisitions and strategic 
investments despite increased regulatory scrutiny during the coronavirus-led market turmoil. Alphabet, Amazon, 
Apple, Facebook and Microsoft have announced 19 deals this year, according to Refinitiv data from May 26, 
representing the fastest pace of acquisitions to this date since 2015. “This crisis threatens to further entrench the 
power of Big Tech,” said Sandeep Vaheesan, legal director at the Open Markets Institute, a think-tank that studies 
corporate concentration.  Read more
Bill Ackman has sold his  $1bn stake in Berkshire Hathaway, the sprawling conglomerate controlled by legendary 
investor Warren Buffett. “We can be much more nimble”, Mr Ackman told investors in his Pershing Square hedge 
fund on Wednesday. The sale comes less than a year after Pershing first bought the stake and just weeks after Mr 
Ackman increased it, declaring that Berkshire was “built by Warren Buffett to withstand a global economic shock 
like this one”.
Essential comment before you go
Gillian Tett
Why work from Wall Street when you can WFH? Covid-19 is hammering home the message that  social networks 
matter — even (or especially) in an age of electronic trading.
Lombard For all the fears that coronavirus will kill off the office, it is the retail landlords who should  really be 
worried. 
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can             sign-up here. 
City Bulletin: EasyJet announces plans to axe up to 30% of staff
Load-Date: May 28, 2020
End of Document
Lufthansa board refuses to approve bailout due to Brussels demands
Lufthansa board refuses to approve bailout due to Brussels demands
 
FT.com
May 27, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 551 words
Byline: Joe Miller in Frankfurt
Body
Lufthansa’s supervisory board has refused to approve a €9bn bailout package proposed by the German 
government, after the European Commission sought to force the airline to give up coveted slots at Frankfurt and 
Munich airports.
Following a meeting on Wednesday, the stricken group said it would put off calling the extraordinary general 
meeting required to get shareholders’ approval for the  deal, even as it burns through at least €1m an hour with the 
vast majority of its planes grounded.
The EU competition authority’s demands, the supervisory board said, “would lead to a weakening of the hub 
function at Lufthansa’s home airports” and the resulting economic impact had to be “analysed intensively”.
However, it added that it still saw the bailout from Berlin as “the only viable alternative for maintaining solvency”.
The German company, which includes the Austrian, Brussels, Swiss and Eurowings airlines, has been seeking 
state aid in four European countries after its operations were reduced to just 1 per cent of normal volumes in the 
wake of the coronavirus pandemic.
After securing €1.4bn from Switzerland last month, Lufthansa reached an agreement with its home government on 
Monday.
Lufthansa board refuses to approve bailout due to Brussels demands
As part of the package, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s administration will take a 20 per cent stake in Europe’s second-
largest airline, which was only privatised in 1997, and maintain the right to up that share to just over 25 per cent to 
block any attempt at a hostile takeover.
It will also nominate two people to sit on the company’s supervisory board.
However, the European Commission, under pressure from Ryanair, which has threatened to challenge the bailout, 
wants Lufthansa to loosen its grip  on its two main hubs before it waves through the deal.
Currently, Lufthansa holds more than two-thirds of the landing slots in Frankfurt and Munich, both of which are at 
least partially state-owned, and roughly 60 per cent of the slots in Vienna and Zurich.
On Tuesday, prominent members of Ms Merkel’s party and governing coalition expressed their opposition to 
reducing the national carrier’s dominance at the two German airports.
Markus Söder, the prime minister of Bavaria, of which Munich is the capital, warned against the hub’s slots being 
given to “low-cost providers”, who he argued would feel less responsible for the fate of German employees than 
Lufthansa. Mr Söder also leads the Christian Social Union party, which is in power in Berlin.
Wolfgang Steiger, the secretary-general of the economic council of Ms Merkel’s party, the Christian Democratic 
Union, said an emergency situation “must not be used as a lever to permanently change the framework conditions 
for a company”. 
Workers representatives, who occupy half of Lufthansa’s 20 supervisory board seats, have also voiced their 
concerns about the EU’s request.
Ufo, the flight attendant’s union, warned that any gap would only be filled by the likes of Ryanair who “do not 
operate in a socially fair or sustainable manner”. The pilots’ union Vereinigung Cockpit emphasised that slots at 
Frankfurt and Munich were “particularly important in order to be able to offer attractive connections and remain 
competitive”.
Lufthansa’s shares, which had risen to their highest levels in two months, gave up most of their gains on 
Wednesday following the announcement.
Load-Date: May 27, 2020
End of Document
Lufthansa ’s coveted airline slots under threat after bailout
Lufthansa’s coveted airline slots under threat after bailout
 
FT.com
May 26, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 608 words
Byline: Joe Miller in Frankfurt, Javier Espinoza in Brussels, Tanya Powley in London
Body
Lufthansa may be forced to give up coveted slots at Frankfurt and Munich airports as the European Commission 
pushes to attach conditions to Germany’s €9bn bailout of the airline and rival Ryanair threatens to challenge the 
deal.
Angela Merkel’s administration  agreed on Monday to support the country’s national carrier, which has been 
appealing for state aid in four countries as the coronavirus crisis cut its operations to just 1 per cent of its regular 
capacity.
As part of the rescue package, Berlin will take a 20 per cent stake in Europe’s second-largest airline, which was first 
privatised in 1997, with the option of increasing that to a blocking minority of 25 per cent, plus one share, in the 
event of a hostile takeover bid.
However, EU officials are concerned that the deal may undermine competition and are in discussions to force the 
airline to get rid of some slots to make sure rivals have a fair advantage, people with direct knowledge of the 
discussions said. 
Michael O’Leary, chief executive at Ryanair, also joined the fray, saying his low-cost airline was planning to lodge 
an appeal against the rescue package, which he said would “further strengthen Lufthansa’s monopoly-like grip on 
the German air travel market”.
Lufthansa ’s coveted airline slots under threat after bailout
“Lufthansa is addicted to state aid,” Mr O’Leary added, arguing that the €9bn bailout would allow the group to 
“engage in below-cost selling or buy up even more competition for the next number of years”.
Ms Merkel’s party, the CDU, hit back at talks in Brussels over reducing slots, warning that Lufthansa’s bailout, 
which it referred to as a “temporary strengthening of a European flagship carrier” must not be jeopardised by 
“overregulation in Brussels”.
“The hubs of Frankfurt and Munich must not be weakened in relation to Paris and Amsterdam,” said Ulrich Lange, 
the deputy chairman of the CDU and CSU group in the German parliament.
Sources in Brussels stressed the remedies being sought by the European Commission would not undermine 
Lufthansa’s business model and that any divestitures were aimed at ensuring a level playing field and in proportion 
to the advantages the German carrier already receives.
In the past Lufthansa has offered to sell slots to get deals such as its acquisition of Air Berlin cleared. 
The German group, which includes Austrian, Brussels, Swiss and Eurowings airlines, holds more than two-thirds of 
the slots at Munich and Frankfurt, its two main hubs, and roughly 60 per cent of the available slots at Vienna and 
Zurich airports.
Following Monday’s announcement, unions, investors and political figures warned against relinquishing slots.
Markus Söder, prime minister of Bavaria and the head of the CSU, part of Angela Merkel’s governing coalition in 
Berlin, said he opposed offering slots at Munich airport to “some low-cost providers, who, by the way, do not accept 
that they have the responsibility for employees and workers that Lufthansa has”.
His counterpart in Hessen, in which Frankfurt is situated, told the Financial Times that Germany must do 
“everything in its power” to protect the international hub in the city. Volker Bouffier, a member of the CDU, added 
that he was “glad that the German chancellor sees this in the same way”.
Investors, whose shares will be diluted once Berlin builds its stake, have also opposed such moves.
Patrick Schuchter, portfolio manager at institutional investor Union, said the possibility of EU intervention in slot 
rights was like a “sword of Damocles over Lufthansa shareholders” and urged the government to fight against it.
Lufthansa refused to comment. Its shares were up 7 per cent on Tuesday.
Additional reporting by Guy Chazan in Berlin
Load-Date: May 26, 2020
End of Document
Aviation industry prepares for sweeping changes in post-pandemic travel | Free to read
Aviation industry prepares for sweeping changes in post-pandemic 
travel | Free to read
 
FT.com
May 25, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1587 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London, David Keohane in Paris and Claire Bushey in Chicago
Body
Tina is standing in Paris Charles de Gaulle airport with her one-and-a-half year old daughter, on her way home to 
Kinshasa from London. “The flight was full, no seats between us and other people,” said the 30-year-old. “They 
didn’t take our temperature and that worried me.”
But that will soon change because ADP, which runs Charles de Gaulle, put in place temperature checks this month 
to scan passengers as the aviation industry rushes to restore confidence in travellers and restart a sector that has 
been decimated by the pandemic. 
The airport shows the physical signs of what has quickly become a new normal. Social distance markers divide 
floor space in front of check-in desks, seats in departure lounges carry stickers warning people to sit apart, Perspex 
protects staff as they assign seats, and at every entrance masks and gels await those braving air travel.
“Just like after 9/11, travellers needed assurance that there are no weapons on-board. Now they will need to be 
reassured by airlines and airports that there are no viruses on board,” said Shashank Nigam, chief executive of 
SimpliFlying, an aviation consultancy. 
Most carriers and airports insist on face masks for passengers and staff, as well as provide hand sanitisers and 
conduct deeper cabin cleaning. The industry has been keen to reassure passengers that air travel is safe. 
Aviation industry prepares for sweeping changes in post-pandemic travel | Free to read
Boeing’s Jim Haas, director of product marketing, says the air on board is “virus free” thanks to Hepa filters on all 
modern aircraft. These filter air to the quality of a hospital operating theatre. 
Some airports such as Hong Kong have gone one stage further with Covid-19 tests for arrivals. In future, immunity 
passports could be included as temporary biosecurity measures. 
“Your health certificate is going to be as important as your visa,” said Andrew Charlton, an aviation consultant. 
Flights will look different: some airlines will offer no food, or at best pre-packaged items, and magazines have been 
removed. Ryanair’s customers will be banned from queueing for the toilet. Some carriers, such as Air France, have 
also introduced temperature checks before flights. 
It comes as many airlines are hoping for a recovery to start in July, bringing to an end a three-month shutdown that 
has left carriers with virtually no revenues and tens of thousands of job cuts. 
“It’s pretty obvious it’s a cataclysmic situation” for the whole industry, Tim Clark, president of Emirates Airline, told 
the FT. 
“In my lifetime I haven’t seen this . . . But at the times we went through the global financial crisis, gulf wars, the 1998 
economic collapse in the east . . . at each of those times I thought ‘aw crikey this is going to be a bad one, what are 
we going to do?’ But we got through it and made money afterwards,” he said. 
But the path to kick-start flying again already looks difficult. 
The European Commission published a plan this month that envisages a co-ordinated gradual lifting of border 
restrictions, with countries and regions opening up safe corridors where epidemiological conditions allow. 
However, both the UK and Spain have proposed 14-day quarantines on arriving travellers, a move that in effect 
shuts down international travel. Other countries, such as Australia and New Zealand, are setting up so-called safe-
travel corridors between regions that have contained the virus. One has also been set up in the Baltics. 
Many airline executives are worried. “It’s clear from everything we’ve seen, the period of recovery is going to take 
much longer than anything we’ve witnessed before,” Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, which owns BA, told 
analysts this month. “We hope going forward we’ll see a co-ordinated response but, to be honest, that’s more of a 
hope than an expectation.”
On top of the health measures, many carriers believe lower fares will stimulate demand. Jozsef Varadi, chief 
executive at Wizz Air, a low-cost airline, thinks demand is already there — the carrier started flying again to some 
locations from the start of May. Its planes are 70 to 75 per cent full. “It’s better than most people would have 
expected,” he said. 
Mr Charlton said: “In the short term, we’re likely to see airlines flooding the market with cheap tickets to get people 
over their fears. But once we get over the sugar rush, I think it’s inevitable that prices will go up because there will 
be fewer airlines.” Airlines will also have large debts to repay and will need to shore up their balance sheets, 
according to analysts. 
One issue that continues to perplex the industry is the potential enforcement by individual countries of social 
distancing at the airport and on board. Airlines were relieved this week when new guidelines on safe travel by the 
European Aviation Safety Agency stopped short of insisting that airlines ensure social distancing on board. 
While many carriers have said they will try to ensure social distancing in the early months when aircraft are unlikely 
to be full, this has already caused problems for some airlines. 
US carriers United and American Airlines have come under fire after passengers tweeted pictures of 
packed planes. United had emailed to say it would automatically block middle seats. It later admitted it could not 
guarantee passengers will be seated next to empty seats on all flights. 
Aviation industry prepares for sweeping changes in post-pandemic travel | Free to read
Budget carrier Frontier Airlines tried asking customers to pay at least $39 to sit next to an empty seat, only to drop 
the fee days later after criticism for crisis profiteering. 
Global trade association Iata said any move for social distancing on aircraft would “fundamentally shift” the 
economics by slashing the maximum load factor to 62 per cent — well below the average break-even load factor of 
77 per cent. This would ultimately lead to a rise in ticket prices, with Iata estimating prices could increase by up to 
54 per cent compared with 2019, just to cover costs.
Airports face a similar quandary. While social distancing is possible in some areas, ACI Europe, the trade body, has 
warned that applying strict distancing at all operational processes would limit the capacity of airports to 20-40 per 
cent. 
Queues at security would also become painfully longer. For example, an aircraft with 189 seats would result in a 
queue of at least 380m for a single security lane. 
Easa guidelines said when physical distancing of 1.5 metres was not possible, because of infrastructure or 
operational constraints, carriers and airport operators should implement additional risk-mitigation measures such as 
hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette.
While social distancing could be introduced at airport shops and restaurants, this will have a big impact on 
revenues. Olivier Jankovec, director-general of ACI Europe, acknowledged that this would be the price to pay in the 
short term. 
“Anything is better than where we are today, where all revenues have disappeared. Passenger traffic is down by 98 
per cent for six weeks in a row. I think what is important is that we can restart operations under a new normal.”
But even after flying restarts, uncertainty is still looming over the long-term structure of the global market. Airlines 
and airports are having to reassess the size of operations in the face of a slow and difficult recovery that could take 
up to three years to return to pre-Covid-19 traffic levels. BA has announced plans to cut up to 30 per cent of its 
42,000-strong workforce, while Ryanair is looking at axing about 15 per cent. 
Geoffrey Weston, partner at consultancy Bain & Company, thinks a “danger zone” lies ahead when airlines look to 
ramp up capacity to about two-thirds of previous levels. “At the moment in many countries, there’s government 
support for employees. When you start flying again, and you lose some of that government support . . . and you are 
now incurring your cash costs of flying on very low load factors, it might be worse than keeping your planes on the 
ground.”
Airline chiefs are also concerned over the demand for business travel, one of the biggest profit generators.
Research by Citi estimates that corporate travel could be impaired by about 25 per cent versus 2019 levels, driven 
by the proliferation of virtual meetings and varying quarantining and border rules for the foreseeable future. This will 
make it a “struggle for a lot of airlines that carry international and business travellers . . . to make money,” said Mark 
Manduca, aviation analyst at Citi.  
Corporates are already showing signs of reassessing their policies. 
Jean-Sébastien Jacques, chief executive of mining group Rio Tinto, said its spending on long-haul could fall by as 
much as 75 per cent over six months. “We used to have a big budget for international travel between continents 
and I am sure that is going to shrink very quickly.” 
SimpliFlying’s Mr Nigam believes airlines may need to think creatively about boosting profits — from introducing 
subscription services to larger premium-economy cabins, which will allow people to social-distance while paying a 
little more than economy fares.
“There will be some impact . . . if everyone's enjoying being on Zoom videos,” Ed Bastian, chief executive of Delta 
Air Lines, told investors last month. “I personally don’t, but maybe some people do. Maybe that will change the 
Aviation industry prepares for sweeping changes in post-pandemic travel | Free to read
nature of travel a bit. But business is done face-to-face. People enjoy experiences. All the things we’ve 
seen . . . actually has, in my opinion, caused people to miss travel more than ever before in this lockdown phase. 
And we’ll get back.”
Additional reporting by Neil Hume and Peggy Hollinger in London
Load-Date: April 30, 2021
End of Document
Retail refunds: frocky horror show
Retail refunds: frocky horror show
 
FT.com
May 24, 2020 Sunday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 411 words
Body
Pent-up demand, retailers hope, will send shoppers rushing to stores when lockdowns end. Chances are, however, 
that plenty will be “reverse buyers”, exchanging goods for money as they return pre-lockdown purchases. In 
addition to the usual toll of  ill-fitting clothes will be garments rendered redundant by the pandemic: ski suits bought 
for an aborted trip to the Alps, perhaps, or frocks never worn to a beach wedding.
The cost of refunds is already evident in the travel industry. Airline Ryanair is  processing 10m a month — 1,000 
times its usual level. Travel agency Tui is returning €250m-€300m a month in cash refunds. Shops have so far 
escaped the onslaught because of being closed. But they, and their investors, will soon join the club.
Online clothing stores typically suffer return rates of around 40-50 per cent. Berlin-based Zalando  ranked itself at 
the top end, in its IPO prospectus. Forrester, the consultancy, estimates a total of $539bn worth of goods were 
returned in the US last year —             more than retail heavyweight Walmart sold in the same period.
Free returns have been championed by ecommerce groups as a way to reassure customers wary of buying clothes 
unseen. In the wake of lockdowns, ecommerce groups such as Amazon and physical stores such as Next have 
extended return periods. B-Stock, an eBay style marketplace for returned and other liquidation merchandise, 
expects a 30 per cent increase in apparel inventory over the next six weeks as retailers shift customers’ — and their 
own — unwanted stock.
Some stores are also bankrolling extra pandemic-induced measures, such as couriers to pick up unwanted items. 
These add to an average cost of $10 per return and mean working capital is tied up in boxes in homes. Worse, the 
ability to resell items — usually the fate of half of all returns, not all at full cost — is lower. February-bought skirts go 
out of fashion quickly. More will end up being liquidated or go to landfill.
Retail refunds: frocky horror show
Companies demur that the changed mix of sales softens the blow. Customers’ current predilections are for beauty 
creams and lounge-around-the-house-wear. These are less likely to be returned than a frock. But for many, mass 
job losses and emptier social calendars mean cash will prove more alluring than unused purchases.
If you are a subscriber and would like to receive alerts when Lex articles are published, just click the button “Add to 
myFT”, which appears at the top of this page above the headline. 
Load-Date: May 24, 2020
End of Document
Investors Chronicle: Renew, Marks and Spencer, Ryanair
Investors Chronicle: Renew, Marks and Spencer, Ryanair
 
FT.com
May 22, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1438 words
Byline: Investors Chronicle reporters
Body
Buy: Renew (RNWH)
With further work likely to arise from the government’s promised  infrastructure revolution, the outlook beyond this 
crisis remains promising, writes Nilushi Karunaratne.
Renew has not escaped the economic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic, but its focus on essential infrastructure 
maintenance activities means 80 per cent of its work has continued. Rail, highways, water and telecommunications 
have all been designated as “critical” sectors. That is good news considering that more than 90 per cent of sales 
and adjusted operating profit are derived from engineering services.
Revenue from the largest division rose by 4 per cent to £293m, benefiting from emergency work in response to rail 
landslips and storms Ciara and Dennis. Adjusted operating profit increased by 7 per cent to £20.5m, with January’s 
acquisition of road engineering specialist Carnell bolstering the margin by 0.2 percentage points to 7 per cent. The 
purchase marks Renew’s entry into the highways market, which it has been eyeing for some time. Carnell is a “tier 
one” contractor with Highways England and will enable the group to tap opportunities in the new road investment 
programme running to 2025.
The acquisition has pushed net debt from £10.2m at the September year-end to £16.1m (excluding lease liabilities). 
But there was a £15.9m working capital inflow thanks to a £2.6m VAT deferral and faster payments from customers 
towards the end of the period. To preserve cash in light of Covid-19, the half-year dividend has been suspended.
Investors Chronicle: Renew, Marks and Spencer, Ryanair
House broker Numis anticipates pre-tax profit of £35.1m and earnings per share of 36.6p for the full year, rising to 
£39.6m and 40.6p the following year.
Renew’s preferred non-discretionary infrastructure markets are underpinned by long-term regulated budgets. This 
should prove defensive in the face of a wider construction slowdown.
Sell: Marks and Spencer (MKS)
Even without the impact of the lockdown, the group is still struggling to adapt to a fast-evolving retail environment, 
writes Alex Janiaud
Marks and Spencer’s clothing business set the retailer back once more at the March year-end, with difficulties in 
transitioning its menswear range through the second half coming on top of availability problems in womenswear 
during the first. Clothing and home operating profits slumped 37 per cent to £224m, with the division’s operating 
profit margin squeezed to 7 per cent from 10.1 per cent last year. M&S’s food arm had a stronger year, posting 
operating profit growth of 11.2 per cent to £237m.
The clothing and home division has sustained the heaviest impact from coronavirus within the group, and M&S is 
now modelling for a 70 per cent fall in revenues here in the four months to July, with a gradual return to normal 
levels by February 2021. This will hit annual turnover by around £1.5bn. 
M&S has written down £157m of inventories in response to the pandemic, £145m of which sat within its clothing 
and home arm. The retailer will put aside around £200m worth of its unsold seasonal stock until spring 2021 and 
carry forward £400m of year-round basic product, which will increase its stock carrying levels. Of the retailer’s 
£336m in adjustments to statutory profits, £213m related to Covid-19, while £49.2m was linked to the impairment of 
stores and goodwill.
FactSet consensus estimates forecasts full-year 2021 earnings per share of 4.87p, rising to 11.78p in 2022.
Hold: Ryanair (RYA)
The markets reacted positively to the group’s decisive measures, but much depends on the duration and severity of 
Europe-wide travel restrictions, writes Alex Janiaud.
Ryanair  expects to record a €200m (£178m) loss in its first quarter as a result of the recent collapse in aviation 
traffic. Most of the airline’s fleet has been glued to the tarmac since mid-March and regardless of whether some 
flights are restored in July, the knock-on effects of the pandemic have been calamitous. The low-cost carrier 
anticipates carrying about 80m passengers over its 2021 financial year, well down on the 154m travellers it had 
targeted for the period.
Groundings in the period under review cut full-year traffic by 5m passengers, constraining pre-tax profits by more 
than €40m. However, trading patterns before the lockdown were encouraging. The group experienced a 10 per cent 
sales lift over its full-year, driven by a combination of traffic growth, fare increases and a 20 per cent jump in 
ancillary revenues, as more passengers opted for priority boarding and preferred seat services. But the airline’s 
overall pre-tax profits sustained a €353m blow linked to its 2021 fuel hedges, as the price of crude collapsed due to 
a sharp fall in global demand and Saudi/Russian inaction on production cuts.
Ryanair took swift action to keep on top of the high costs of being grounded with almost no income, and has cut its 
average weekly cash burn from €200m to €60m. It is negotiating with partners to reduce new aeroplane deliveries 
(including a 210 jet order for the disastrous  Boeing 737 Max), with traffic expected to be substantially weaker over 
the coming year. It has also suspended share buybacks, having returned €581m to shareholders over its 2020 full-
year. 
Broker Citi forecasts full-year 2021 pre-tax losses and diluted losses per share of €829m and 66¢ respectively, 
before pre-tax profits and earnings per share of €615m and 49¢ in 2022.
Investors Chronicle: Renew, Marks and Spencer, Ryanair
Chris Dillow: The irrational minority
One common objection to the idea that share prices are driven by irrational investors is that, over time, they should 
be driven out of the market as the smarter money profits at their expense.
This is most obviously true in auctions. It doesn’t matter if most people in the room believe a painting is a worthless 
fake. If just two believe it is a masterpiece then a bidding war will see it sell for millions. And such wars are more 
common than you might think. In eBay auctions of Amazon gift cards — items with an obvious worth — two-fifths 
sell for more than their face value.
Prices are not set by “the market”. They are set by those who value an item more than the seller does — which can 
be a small minority.
This is true of one of the longest-standing of stock market anomalies — the long-run underperformance of newly 
floated stocks.
This also helps explain why we see booms and slumps in the numbers of new flotations. Such waves and troughs 
would not happen if flotations were determined only by companies’ thoughts about how to best structure their 
balance sheets: if so, they would occur more or less randomly. Instead, sellers put their company on the market 
when they believe there are enough investors around who are sufficiently over-optimistic to pay over the odds for it.
A similar thing happens in housing markets. Atif Mian and Amir Sufi estimate that the rise in US housing 
transactions between 2003 and 2006 was caused almost entirely by less than 1 per cent of the population — that 
small minority of Americans who were “flippers”, who bought and sold lots of houses in quick succession. 
This explains something economists have long known — that price bubbles are often caused by easier credit. The 
point here isn’t that slacker lending standards allow most people to buy at high prices — if you are pessimistic about 
the market, the ability to get a big mortgage won’t cause you to buy. Instead, the mechanism is that easier credit 
gives fuel to the overconfident minority and so enables these to drive prices up further.
By the same token, even a moderate tightening of credit can have a disproportionate effect in depressing prices, 
because it drives overconfident buyers out of the market. Which is why property investors must guard against 
liquidity risk. If only a small minority of active and overconfident buyers drop out of the market, it will become difficult 
to sell quickly especially at a half-decent price.
Many of you might find all this banal. But in fact it undermines our everyday preconceptions. We should not speak 
of ‘the market’ as some abstract entity. Instead, there’s a set of sellers and set of buyers, all of whom have different 
beliefs. Often, prices are driven not by the average buyer but by a minority of them, who are not necessarily the 
most rational or informed. This is why it is so difficult to predict returns, especially for sentiment-driven assets such 
as the more speculative stocks: their prices depend on the beliefs of a small minority.
Markets are always selection devices, and they don’t necessarily select for the best. The idea that they do so is a 
just-so story, which is not always founded on the facts.
Chris Dillow is an economics commentator for Investors Chronicle
Load-Date: May 22, 2020
End of Document
BA chief hits out at unions over redundancy consultation
BA chief hits out at unions over redundancy consultation
 
FT.com
May 22, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 544 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
The chief executive of British Airways has hit out at two big unions for failing to attend any of its consultation 
meetings over the airline’s plans to cut up to 30 per cent of its 42,000-strong workforce. 
In a letter to staff on Friday, Alex Cruz said while the airline had started productive conversations with Balpa, the 
pilots’ union, both Unite and GMB had so far failed to attend any of the meetings. 
He wrote: “Consultation is so important, and productive conversations are already being held with Balpa. I am sorry 
that neither Unite nor GMB have attended any of the daily meetings they are invited to so that they can provide 
ideas and input into any of the other proposed changes, and maximise the number of jobs saved.”
In the letter, Mr Cruz warned that BA’s “financial situation is not improving”. He added that the UK government’s 
announcement of a  14-day quarantine for UK incoming passengers starting in June “deals another blow to our 
chances of starting the recovery phase”.
It comes as the general secretary of Unite, Len McCluskey, wrote to the board members of IAG, British Airways’ 
owner, warning it was launching a public campaign to highlight the “deplorable actions” taken by BA in its move to  
axe up to 12,000 staff and change employees’ terms and conditions.
In response to its absence from meetings, Howard Beckett, assistant general secretary at Unite, said: “The law 
requires BA to meaningfully consult with Unite and allow the union access to the workforce. That is impossible 
when the workforce is furloughed under a scheme that specifically precludes employees from working.”
BA chief hits out at unions over redundancy consultation
He added: “British Airways is opportunistically going through the motions in the knowledge that meaningful 
negotiations cannot occur. Unite believes that BA is acting unlawfully, and when its sham consultation exercise is 
complete the union will undertake legal action on behalf of its members.”
GMB declined to comment. 
Last month, IAG was one of the first major airline groups to announce job cuts as it warned that a return to 2019 
passenger levels would take “several years” following the coronavirus crisis. 
Ryanair is also planning to axe up to  15 per cent of its staff, while Virgin Atlantic is cutting about a third of its 
10,000-strong workforce as carriers look to restructure in light of a slow recovery in air travel.
Unite has called on BA to remove its redundancy threat by lifting its Section 188 notice — which paves the way for 
consultation and is triggered when an employer proposes to make redundant 20 or more jobs — and engage in 
“meaningful” talks.
In his letter to IAG board members, Mr McCluskey wrote: “If you were remotely serious about entering into 
meaningful consultation and negotiation, you would by now have lifted the threat of the 188 notice and given time 
and space for real discussions. 
“If this is really all about the Covid-19 crisis, why have you refused to suggest or accept any temporary measures 
with joint reviews, so that terms and conditions would be returned as revenue climbs? In truth, you have imposed 
this without any intention of negotiating.”
The union said its public campaign aimed to alert BA’s customers, shareholders and partners of the “severe and 
permanent damage being done at a time of national crisis”. 
Load-Date: May 22, 2020
End of Document
Emirates expects all its aircraft to be flying in 2 years
Emirates expects all its aircraft to be flying in 2 years
 
FT.com
May 22, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 619 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
The president of Emirates expects to have all its planes flying in two years’ time, including its fleet of A380 
superjumbo jets. 
 Tim Clark, who heads the Dubai-based carrier, said its current fleet of A380s, which will cease to be manufactured 
from next year, would continue to play an important part in the airline’s future.
He said the carrier, one of the world’s largest, was planning to fully deploy all its aircraft in the summer of 2022 
based on its outlook for a recovery in air travel to take up to two years. 
It comes as other airlines also laid out their recovery plans this month, with British Airways owner IAG forecasting it 
would take three years before passenger demand returned to normal. Ryanair plans to resume about 40 per cent of 
its flights in July. 
In an interview with the Financial Times, Sir Tim dismissed suggestions that Emirates would permanently 
decommission a large portion of its 115-strong  A380 fleet.
“At the moment, I’ve got 115 sitting there. We’ve always known that up until that point in time . . . in 2022 there are 
going to be a number that will have to go into long-term storage,” he said. 
“We’re not getting rid of any of them apart from I think three that are coming out and nine 777s that were scheduled 
to come out this year.”
Emirates expects all its aircraft to be flying in 2 years
He added that the A380 had a “place in the Emirates international network on the scale it has before. Albeit not 
today or fully next year, but the year after I think there will be a place for it and I think it is going to be extremely 
popular.”
Sir Tim’s comments come just days after  Air France announced a €500m writedown as it said it would permanently 
withdraw its fleet of nine A380s.
Last year Airbus announced plans to stop making the 550-seat double-decker in 2021 following poor sales. It has 
eight to build for Emirates, but Sir Tim would not comment on speculation it might cancel this order although he 
acknowledged it was in talks with Airbus. 
Emirates this week became the latest airline to tentatively restart a small number of routes, including Australia to 
UK, after halting its regular operations since the end of March following widespread lockdowns and travel 
restrictions around the world. 
The Dubai-based airline, followed by Qatar Airways and Abu Dhabi’s Etihad, has disrupted the aviation industry 
over the past two decades with their superconnector model, linking east and west through three Gulf hubs.
But alongside its rivals, it has been hit hard by the coronavirus crisis. This month, the airline warned it would have a 
“huge impact” on its future financial performance as it forecast it would take at least 18 months for travel demand to 
return to some normality. 
The  government-owned airline has in the first three months of this calendar year raised Dh4.4bn ($1.2bn) in 
additional liquidity through term loans and other facilities and will continue to tap the bank market to cushion the 
impact of Covid-19 on cash flow.
Sir Tim would not comment on how many job cuts the airline will have to make. “All I will say is that the optimistic 
[business] scenario is driving what we do now and therefore the business has to be structured in such a way on the 
basis of that way forward.” 
But he stood by Emirates’ hub strategy. “It’s a business model that has worked for us extremely well for the last 35 
years.
“We have made money every single year bar six months of one of them and it has worked in the most horrific of 
trading conditions, geopolitical conditions and social economic conditions. As the world has transformed itself from 
1985 to 2020, Emirates has grown with it.”
Tell us about what’s happening around you. Are jobs being cut? Are workers being put at risk? Send your 
tips and stories to coronavirus@ft.com
Load-Date: May 22, 2020
End of Document
EasyJet to resume flights next month
EasyJet to resume flights next month
 
FT.com
May 21, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 662 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
EasyJet has announced plans to restart a small number of flights in the middle of June, which will initially involve 
the low-cost airline flying domestic routes in the UK and France. 
The budget carrier  on Thursday said it would add further routes in the coming weeks as customer demand 
increased and lockdown measures across Europe were relaxed. 
EasyJet’s plan comes as airlines and airports across the world are tentatively looking at resuming flights in the 
coming months. 
Dubai-based Emirates is restarting a select number of long-haul flights, including UK to Australia, on Thursday, 
while Ryanair intends to resume about 40 per cent of its capacity from July. 
In India, aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri has tweeted that domestic operations will “recommence in a 
calibrated manner” from May 25.
Commercial operations had been suspended in India after prime minister Narendra Modi announced  a nationwide 
lockdown in late March
The aviation minister also announced a price band capping tickets at Rs10,000 ($132) with fares regulated until 
August 24.
EasyJet to resume flights next month
Separately, London’s Heathrow airport on Thursday started a trial of  temperature screening checks on passengers 
arriving at Terminal 2 as it looks at ways of restoring confidence in air travel. 
Johan Lundgren, easyJet chief executive, said of the plan to begin flights on June 15: “These are small and 
carefully planned steps that we are taking to gradually resume operations.”
EasyJet will initially operate about 189 flights a week, compared with a pre-coronavirus level of more than 12,000. 
As well as domestic flights in the UK and France, it will also operate a small number of international routes from 
Geneva in Switzerland to Lisbon and Porto in Portugal and Barcelona in Spain. 
The move comes at a difficult time for the low-cost carrier. On Tuesday, it revealed that it had been targeted in  a 
“highly sophisticated” cyber attack with the email addresses and travel details of about 9m customers breached. Its 
investigation also found that about 2,200 customers had their credit card details stolen.
It is also in the middle of  a battle with its founder and largest shareholder Stelios Haji-Ioannou over a multibillion-
pound order for 107 Airbus aircraft. The airline is holding a general meeting on Friday in response to Sir Stelios’s 
resolution to remove four directors, including Mr Lundgren and chairman John Barton.
The airline also announced a range of new health measures designed to restore consumer confidence in air travel. 
These include customers and staff being required to wear masks, enhanced cleaning of its aircraft and temporarily 
halting its onboard food service. It will also provide disinfectant wipes and hand sanitiser on board its planes. 
The move comes as the European Aviation Safety Agency and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and 
Control late on Wednesday published  a set of joint guidelines for a safe resumption of air travel. This includes 
measures such as wearing face masks, physical distancing of 1.5 metres where possible at airports and the 
frequent washing of hands.
It stopped short of calling for physical distancing on planes, such as keeping the middle seat empty. The guidelines 
said when physical distancing of 1.5 metres was not possible, due to infrastructure or operational constraints, 
carriers and airport operators should implement additional risk-mitigation measures such as hand hygiene and 
respiratory etiquette.
EasyJet said it would not be making it mandatory for middle seats to be kept empty on its planes, an option it had 
previously considered, pointing to recent guidelines by aviation authorities. 
“It’s widely recognised now, by authorities . . . that social distancing on an aircraft is simply not practical and not 
needed if there are other layers of protection,” said David Morgan, director of flight operations at easyJet, such as 
wearing face masks and increased cleaning measures. 
Additional reporting by Stephanie Findlay in New Delhi
Load-Date: May 22, 2020
End of Document
Covid-19 has brought on a case of corporate good citizenship at AstraZeneca
Covid-19 has brought on a case of corporate good citizenship at 
AstraZeneca
 
FT.com
May 21, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 816 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
If UK plc needed a new national champion, AstraZeneca would not be a bad candidate (Swedish heritage aside). 
The Cambridge-headquartered drugmaker has had an astounding run, reaping the rewards of investment in new 
drug development. It is now the UK’s largest listed company. 
What it is not is a vaccine specialist. Oncology is its thing. Yet Astra is ploughing resources into making Oxford 
university’s potential Covid-19 vaccine, which it plans to sell at cost. It has secured capacity to produce a billion 
doses by the end of next year. It does not even know if the vaccine works. 
Why bother? 
Astra’s endeavours are unlikely to break it into the vaccine big league, outside Covid-19. Barriers to entry are 
towering. GSK, Sanofi, Johnson Johnson and Merck will continue to dominate. 
Profiting from the pandemic is also problematic. It isn’t impossible that money could be made from yearly top-up 
jabs once the initial wave of vaccines has been administered, as for the flu. Analysts at Morgan Stanley reckon the 
“endemic”-stage market could be worth anything from $2bn to $25bn a year. Michael Leuchten at UBS pointed out 
flu vaccines go for about $5 a pop with 30 per cent margins. That’s not nothing. But pressure to keep prices down 
will be felt keenly by those in the public eye.
Covid-19 has brought on a case of corporate good citizenship at AstraZeneca
Reputational rehabilitation is a better explanation for the industry and the company’s efforts. Big pharma groups are 
the only ones with the resources to have a chance of resolving the enormity of the Covid-19 challenge. No one 
company is large enough to do it alone, though: multiple vaccines and manufacturers will be needed. All must be 
seen to step up. 
At least it should not cost them too dearly. Governments anxious to secure national supplies have been quick to 
fund pharmaceutical groups’ development costs. The US has committed $1bn in support for Astra, while the UK 
government on Sunday announced £65.5m for the Oxford vaccine. Astra on Thursday said it expected the cost of 
its preparations for the production of the unproven vaccine to be offset by government money. 
The company could still benefit from others’ initiatives, too. Its stake in Moderna, developer of a novel vaccine 
technology, is worth more than four times Astra’s investment. Even if Astra doesn’t emerge a financial winner, it’s 
hard to see it losing badly. And meanwhile, it can carry on with curing cancer.
Airway obstruction
Idiotic. Unimplementable. Just two of the words Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary used about the UK government’s 
idea to impose a 14-day quarantine on returning travellers. Other airline bosses are taking their cue from the irate 
Irishman. Willie Walsh, who had been aiming to increase British Airways flights to 1,000 a day from July, said the 
airline would have to review its plans downwards. EasyJet’s plans to resume some flying from June 15, announced 
on Thursday, are mainly for domestic flights within the UK and France.
It is a reminder of how closely public health policy is entwined with any recovery in airline traffic. Now the European 
aviation body, Easa, has come out with a set of Covid-19 guidelines for reopening the airways. Passenger 
temperature-taking in airports is encouraged. So is physical distancing, including on aircraft where possible. The 
result — empty seats between passengers, and only filling every other row — would be to cut maximum capacity to 
just 33 per cent.
Airline bosses may huff and puff as aircraft sit idle. But the key thing will be giving confidence to passengers not 
only to buy tickets (at potentially much higher prices), but to spend extended times in airports (seen as vectors of 
infection) to travel.
A study by Chris Tarry, an aviation analyst, suggests passengers are prepared to put up with some inconvenience. 
Some 46 per cent were prepared to accept a four-hour check in time, with 11 per cent prepared to go to five hours. 
But many will take coaxing. Almost 25 per cent would wait for four to six months before resuming flying after 
restrictions were lifted, with 15 per cent hanging back for at least a year.
And how easy will these rules be to administer? Imagine being the airline staff member who has to turn a family of 
five away from the gate (and their holiday) because one of them has a temperature. As Mr Tarry says: “I predict a 
riot.”
For all Mr O’Leary’s frustration, there is no quick answer. European traffic was down 90 per cent, year on year, 
according to Eurocontrol. Mr Tarry believes the quickest segment to recover when restrictions are relaxed will be 
travellers visiting family and relatives. This is not huge, accounting for roughly 8 per cent of UK passenger 
movements.
Airlines have a strong motivation to renormalise travel and preserve infrastructure by restarting services. But, for 
now, investors should not bank on anything except the whiff of more burning cash.
AstraZeneca: cat.rutterpooley@ft.comAirlines: jonathan.ford@ft.com
Load-Date: May 21, 2020
Covid-19 has brought on a case of corporate good citizenship at AstraZeneca
End of Document
City Bulletin: Premier Inn owner Whitbread launches £1bn rights issue
City Bulletin: Premier Inn owner Whitbread launches £1bn rights issue
 
FT.com
May 21, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 850 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Whitbread, the company behind Premier Inn hotels, has launched a £1bn rights issue to repair its balance sheet 
after coronavirus shut its hotels. While the cash call will bring in less than the £2bn capital raise launched by caterer 
Compass earlier this week, it represents a far bigger chunk of Whitbread’s equity and is one of only a handful of 
rights issues — as opposed to non-preemptive placings for smaller sums — to be launched since the pandemic 
started. 
Whitbread will issue one new share for every two existing shares. The company said that while it had access to 
liquidity to see it through the pandemic after agreeing waivers with its lenders and pension fund trustees, it would 
emerge from the crisis with far higher leverage without new equity. The extra cash will also allow it to invest at a 
time when Whitbread said the decline of the independent hotel sector — hit even harder by the shutdown — could 
accelerate the shift to budget branded hotels. 
Briefly
AstraZeneca is gearing up for production of the potential Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford university. The 
Anglo-Swedish drugmaker, which is now the UK’s largest listed company, said it had concluded the first 
agreements to supply at least 400 million doses and had total capacity sourced for 1 billion doses through 2020 and 
2021. It also announced that it had received support of more than $1bn from the US Biomedical Advanced 
Research and Development Authority (BARDA) for the development, production and delivery of the vaccine, 
starting in the autumn. Clinical trials are still ongoing. 
City Bulletin: Premier Inn owner Whitbread launches £1bn rights issue
EasyJet plans to resume some flights from June 15. The airline said that a “small number of flights” will restart on 
routes with enough demand to be profitable, mainly domestic flights in the UK and France. The staged restart 
contrasts with Ryanair, which has said it plans to fly 40% of its capacity from July 4. 
Insurer Aviva expects a £160m impact on its general insurance business from coronavirus, and warned on 
Thursday that if the pandemic gives rise to a severe economic downturn it could hit the performance of its 
investments, capital generation and remittances. New business sales have also fallen since the start of April. But 
Aviva added that its solvency ratio remained strong at 182 per cent at the end of March and that it was well 
positioned to manage the crisis.
Also out on Wednesday are updates from investment platform AJ Bell and retailer Pets At Home. 
Coronavirus Spotlight
As one currency trading boss puts it, “we used to think of working from home as spending time with the dog.” But 
hefty investment in technology since the financial crisis — both to save costs and meet more stringent compliance 
standards — has meant banks have come close to recreating environments like trading floors at home. Now banks 
are wrestling with  how many traders to send back to the office. 
Beyond the Square Mile 
The US has  arrested two men accused of helping Carlos Ghosn flee Japan last year, in the latest twist of the long-
running legal saga surrounding the former Nissan chief executive. Michael Taylor, 59, and his son, Peter Taylor, 27, 
are wanted by Japanese authorities for allegedly assisting in Mr Ghosn’s dramatic escape in December from Japan. 
The escape from Japan to Lebanon was “one of the most brazen and well-orchestrated escape acts in recent 
history”, US prosecutors in Boston said in a court filing.
Volkswagen has apologised for running  a racist Instagram advert as part of a campaign to promote its new Golf 
model in Germany. The short video clip showed an outsized white hand pushing around a dark-skinned man, 
apparently preventing him from getting into the car, before flicking him into the doorway of a Buenos Aires 
restaurant. “We understand the public outrage at this, because we’re horrified too,” VW brand board member 
Jürgen Stackmann and group head of diversity Elke Heitmüller said, in an apology posted on social media.
Shopify is rolling out new services for retailers and pushing into the grocery sector as  the ecommerce upstart 
cashes in on the disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The Canada-based company on Wednesday 
unveiled more services for retailers, including options for small shops to set local delivery areas and compute 
optimal delivery routes, and finance functions to help them manage cash flow. Restaurants are also turning to 
Shopify to supplement their income from traditional takeaways, offering meal kits, wine lists and recipe books. “The 
retail world that would have existed in the year 2030 has been pulled into 2020,” Harley Finkelstein, Shopify’s chief 
operating officer, told the FT.
Essential comment before you go
Lombard
If Rolls-Royce is a British national champion, it is  as flawed as any Shakespearean hero. Unlike so many of the 
Bard’s heroes, though, Rolls’ demise is not imminent.
Lex
The historic clothing brand of Marks and Spencer was St Michael. A more  appropriate choice these days would be 
St Jude, patron saint of lost causes.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can             sign-up here.
City Bulletin: Premier Inn owner Whitbread launches £1bn rights issue
Load-Date: May 21, 2020
End of Document
Further reading
Further reading
 
FT.com
May 21, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 64 words
Byline: Jemima Kelly
Body
Elsewhere on Thursday, 
-- The  king of Germany.
--  Antidepressant or Tolkien?
-- Why is Ryanair  taking to the skies when there’s nowhere to fly?
-- A miserable time for  parents.
-- “  Superspreader events”.
-- Pompeo’s  elite taxpayer-funded dinners.
--  China’s debt.
-- A  resignation at NASA.
-- Puerto Rico’s  sex workers.
-- One country,  two monetary sytems.
--  Grieving in a pandemic.
Further reading
Load-Date: May 21, 2020
End of Document
Letter: O’Leary’s ideas are worthy of consideration
Letter: O’Leary’s ideas are worthy of consideration
 
FT.com
May 21, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 171 words
Body
Contrary to  Lex’s view (May 18), Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary is right to rail against state support for large airline 
employers. 
The support given, putting the panic into pandemic as it did, risks distorting the market for decades by propping up 
failing airline business models and not focusing on where it can do the most benefit. 
The relief has been ill-thought through and often counter-productive. 
Manchester recently supported its airport with an interest free loan of £250m. This is a gift to the Spanish tourism 
industry — worthy recipients no doubt, but perhaps not what was intended. 
Airlines that carry citizens out of their country of registration are exporting tourists but, more importantly, importing 
tourism. 
Mr O’Leary’s suggestion that aid be linked to passengers is worthy of consideration. Aviation’s employment 
numbers pale into insignificance against those of tourism. Support needs to be focused and it needs to ensure 
sensible outcomes.
Andrew Charlton Managing Director, Aviation Advocacy Nyon, Switzerland
Load-Date: May 21, 2020
Letter: O’Leary’s ideas are worthy of consideration
End of Document
City Bulletin: Rolls-Royce ’s 9,000 job cuts likely to fall hardest on UK
City Bulletin: Rolls-Royce’s 9,000 job cuts likely to fall hardest on UK
 
FT.com
May 20, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 943 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Rolls-Royce has announced a “major reorganisation” that will mean the loss of at least 9,000 jobs from its 52,000-
strong workforce. The engineering group said that it was “increasingly clear that activity in the commercial 
aerospace market will take several years to return to the levels seen just a few months ago”. 
The cuts will fall mainly on Rolls-Royce’s civil aerospace division, where two-thirds of staff are based in the UK. The 
company said the reorganisation was expected to generate yearly savings of £1.3bn, with the job cuts making up 
£700m of that. There will be one-off restructuring costs of £800m. 
The cuts go even further than anticipated when the FT reported  earlier this month that the company was planning 
cuts of up to 8,000 jobs, the biggest single reduction in more than 30 years, and are yet another example of the 
catastrophic impact of the pandemic on the global aviation industry. Ryanair has already said it is preparing to cut 
up to 14 per cent of its workforce, while IAG plans to axe more than 12,000 staff. 
Briefly
M&S pre-tax profits dropped 20 per cent to just £67m for the year to the end of March. The retailer said Covid-19 hit 
profits in March by £52m. It also took £213m in charges relating to the pandemic, covering stock that can no longer 
be sold or will have to be marked down and write downs to the value of its stores. Excluding adjusting items such as 
the Covid-19 charges, it reported £403m in pre-tax profits, a 21 per cent fall on last year. 
City Bulletin: Rolls-Royce ’s 9,000 job cuts likely to fall hardest on UK
UK inflation data out on Wednesday showed consumer price inflation slowed to an annual rate of 0.8 per cent in 
April, the lowest rate in almost four years. The decline from 1.5 per cent in march reflected lower energy prices and 
weakening demand during the pandemic. It is the first time inflation has slipped below 1 per cent since 2016. 
The multimillionaire founder of discount retailer Matalan is  suing PwC. John Hargreaves says the Big Four 
accounting firm gave him bad advice on how to avoid paying taxes when he relocated from England to Monaco, a 
move he hoped would stop him having to pay capital gains and income taxes when he sold £237m of shares in 
Matalan 20 years ago. HMRC found the move wasn’t effective, and Mr Hargreaves paid out £35m to the taxman in 
2018. It has continued to pursue him for a further £135m. 
Also out on Wednesday are results from credit data group Experian and landlord Great Portland Estates. 
Coronavirus Spotlight
Carmakers around the world are contending with a near total collapse in sales, and months more of uncertainty 
even after they restart their plants. But indications from China are of a sharp rise in individual car use as commuters 
shun public transport. As health concerns drive sales, the global car industry is hoping for a  coronavirus silver 
lining. 
Job moves 
Aviva has picked former Lloyds Bank finance director  George Culmer as its new chairman, as the insurer 
navigates both the crisis and long-term questions about his future. Mr Culmer takes up the job next week, replacing 
Adrian Montague who said in January that he would step down after five years in the job.
Xavier Rolet, former London Stock Exchange boss, has popped up at broker Shore Capital. He has joined Shore 
as non-executive chairman of its capital markets business. 
Beyond the Square Mile 
Facebook has unveiled  a shopping service to compete directly with Amazon and eBay. “Facebook Shops” is the 
social media network’s most significant foray into ecommerce to date and will allow sellers to create digital 
storefronts on Facebook or Instagram. Users will be able to browse products, message businesses to arrange 
purchases, and in some cases buy them directly via a recently introduced online checkout feature. Mark 
Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, told the FT that in the long term it “would be good” to host restaurant and 
food ordering services.
Johnson & Johnson will stop selling its  baby talcum powder in the US and Canada, where sales have dropped 
amid a wave of litigation claiming that the personal care product can cause cancer. The world’s largest healthcare 
company said sales of the powder had dropped 60 per cent in the past three years. J&J is facing almost 19,400 
lawsuits related to the claims that its talcum powder can cause cancer. It has lost several trials,             including 
one high-profile case in 2018, when it was ordered to pay $4.7bn in damages in the case of 22 women who alleged 
their cancer was caused by using the product.
BlackRock has won significant amounts of  new business after the US Federal Reserve controversially hired the 
world’s biggest fund manager to run its coronavirus-induced bond-buying programme. Critics argued that 
BlackRock, which oversees at least $2.2tn in fixed-income assets, gained an unfair advantage over rivals after 
securing the contract to oversee the massive bond-buying programme in March. The Fed ordered the purchase of 
corporate bond exchange traded funds as part of its efforts to calm the turmoil triggered by the pandemic that has 
destabilised US fixed income markets.
Essential comment before you go
Tom Braithwaite
City Bulletin: Rolls-Royce ’s 9,000 job cuts likely to fall hardest on UK
Donald Trump’s relationship with Deutsche Bank has lasted longer than any of his marriages and is cloaked in 
more secrecy. But the German bank’s  unfathomable loyalty to the US president may finally be paying off.
Lombard
In the dark days of 2007 when Barclays turned to the Bank of England’s super-secret emergency borrowing facility, 
such was the stigma attached that it made the front page. In this crisis  transparency is the name of the game.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here. 
Load-Date: May 20, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair warns coronavirus will push it to €200m quarterly loss
Ryanair warns coronavirus will push it to €200m quarterly loss
 
FT.com
May 18, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 606 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley in Dublin
Body
Ryanair warned it would make a €200m loss in its first quarter as the low-cost carrier expected the number of 
passengers flying this year would be about half of its original target due to coronavirus. 
The Dublin-based airline said on Monday that it expected to carry 80m passengers during its current fiscal year, 
which started in April, down from its original goal of 154m passengers. 
But its shares jumped by almost 10 per cent in a rising market as the airline set out plans to resume flights in July 
and said it was well-positioned to cut ticket prices over the next two years in an attempt to boost demand during the 
recovery it anticipates after the pandemic.  
The shares, which have fallen by 36 per cent in the year to date, were trading around €9.28 shortly after midday in 
Dublin. 
Ryanair predicted a “smaller loss” in the second quarter than in the first — or possibly to break even — but still 
expected to contend with coronavirus restrictions that have grounded most of its fleet. 
The airline said it would carry “no more than 50 per cent of its original” quarterly traffic target of 44.6m in the July-
September period.
“While we’re looking at a reasonable return to traffic volumes, we think it will be on the back of much lower air fares 
and yield. We’re really flying blind at the moment,” Michael O’Leary, the longtime chief executive, told analysts in a 
conference call.  
Ryanair warns coronavirus will push it to €200m quarterly loss
Mr O’Leary said the company did not have “a bull’s notion” what 2021’s profit or loss would look like.
While he expected a return to traffic volume “normality” in summer next year, he said it could be summer 2022 
before fares returned to typical levels.
Ryanair reported €1bn post-tax profit for the year to March 2020. 
The start of Covid-19 groundings that month reduced profit by €40m and full-year traffic by more than 5m 
passengers, Ryanair said, but the annual profit was still 13 per cent higher than in the previous year.
Flight cancellations led Ryanair to take a €353m hit on fuel it contracted to buy in advance to counter possible price 
increases but now does not need due to Covid groundings. “We have too much fuel hedged compared to what 
we’re going to fly now,” said Neil Sorahan, chief financial officer. 
Daniel Roeska, analyst at Bernstein, said the full-year result was “better than feared” and noted Ryanair’s “positive 
outlook with planning a return to service 40 per cent [of flights] by July.”
Mr O’Leary has condemned as “nonsense” a UK plan for a 14-day quarantine for passengers arriving in the country 
and called instead for the use of face masks on flights and temperature checks in airport terminals as an alternative 
to isolating passengers.
At the same time, Ryanair has  reduced costs by cutting pay and making use of government payroll support 
schemes across Europe. 
“Back in February we were spending somewhere in the region of about €200m a week. At the moment we’re 
spending about €60m a week. That may creep up slightly when we return to service,” Mr Sorahan said. About €25m 
of the weekly expenditure is on fuel, Ryanair said.
Mr O’Leary hit out at rescue packages for Lufthansa, Air France-KLM, Alitalia and others, branding them “state-aid 
dopers”, and said Ryanair would neither request nor receive such aid. 
The airline is in talks with staff and unions about base closures, pay cuts of up to 20 per cent, unpaid leave and up 
to 3,000 job cuts, mainly pilots and cabin crew. Any refusal to accept such pay cuts would only increase the number 
of job losses, Mr O’Leary said.
Tell us about what’s happening around you. Are jobs being cut? Are workers being put at risk? Send your 
tips and stories to coronavirus@ft.com
Load-Date: May 18, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair : fight plan
Ryanair: fight plan
 
FT.com
May 18, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 408 words
Body
Have face mask, can fly, says Michael O’Leary. The boss of low-cost carrier Ryanair believes masks can eliminate 
the risk of spreading coronavirus and wants passengers to wear them while his airline ramps up business to 40 per 
cent of normal flight schedule from almost nil today. It will take more than masks to convince passengers to fly 
given the government’s two-week quarantine rule.
Mr O’Leary has plenty of  choice words for this policy. Some make more sense than the rules do — including 
exceptions for travel from France. His case for protesting against state support for large employers such as 
Lufthansa has less force. 
Given Ryanair’s cash resources, his complaints are understandable. In its  full-year results, Mr O’Leary could point 
to more than €4.1bn of funds. Having slashed costs by 70 per cent to about €240m monthly, Ryanair should last 
more than a year even if business does not pick up. Mr O’Leary expects a loss in the first quarter to the end of 
June, after which these should subside. 
Mr O’Leary is in his element. Both workers and eventually airports will be at his mercy. Staff cuts of up to a fifth will 
not endear him to his recently unionised crews, but shareholders will not mind. Markets boosted the depressed 
share price by over a tenth on Monday. Eventually, Ryanair’s capacity reductions will give him negotiating leverage 
over airport landing fees. Bernstein Research expects a capacity crunch of 15-20 per cent fewer flights to offset 
lower demand this year. Mr O’Leary’s twin bets are that the quarantine goes away soonish and Ryanair’s balance 
sheet strength wins out over rivals. 
Ryanair : fight plan
His claim that other European flag carriers will get a competitive leg-up from state help, causing a fare war, looks 
moot. Cash flow deficits throughout the industry, including at Ryanair, will mean net debt climbs quickly. Heavy 
discounting, which depresses revenues, is not the answer to that build-up. 
More than one government minister might welcome putting a mask on Mr O’Leary. It is unlikely to keep him quiet 
when Ryanair shares outperform the European airline sector this year.
Letter in response to this article:
 O’Leary’s ideas are worthy of consideration / From Andrew Charlton, Managing Director, Aviation Advocacy, Nyon, 
Switzerland
If you are a subscriber and would like to receive alerts when Lex articles are published, just click the button “Add to 
myFT”, which appears at the top of this page above the headline.
Load-Date: May 21, 2020
End of Document
City Bulletin: Ryanair braces for €200m first-quarter loss
City Bulletin: Ryanair braces for €200m first-quarter loss
 
FT.com
May 18, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 917 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Ryanair is on the warpath again. Its full-year results out on Monday are accompanied by yet another diatribe 
against the government support given to various other EU airlines, which Ryanair dubs “unlawful state aid”. 
Performance for the year to March is largely irrelevant given the circumstances. Ryanair made €1bn in profits after 
tax, a 13 per cent increase on the year before, but estimates it will report a loss of more than €200m in the first 
quarter of its new financial year with another, smaller loss in the second quarter. It will take a €353m hit on fuel 
hedging. 
Last week Ryanair said it planned to restore 40 per cent of its schedule from July 1, though it is unclear how many 
passengers will actually want to fly on them if it means spending a fortnight or more in quarantine. But even with a 
relatively speedy return to flying, the airline estimates it will carry around 50 per cent fewer passengers this financial 
year than it originally anticipated. And, when flights do resume, it predicts that there will be a price war between 
airlines seeking to pack planes with some tickets sold below cost. Unsurprisingly, there’s no guidance for the new 
financial year. 
More on the Coronavirus blog  here. 
Briefly
Intu, the struggling shopping centre owner, is seeking a standstill from its lenders as plunging rent collections and 
property valuations have added to its woes. The group said on Monday it is likely to breach covenants and other 
liquidity requirements at the end of this month if lenders hold it to the terms of its financing agreements, while it has 
City Bulletin: Ryanair braces for €200m first-quarter loss
limited options to realise cash by selling assets at the moment. It is seeking a standstill until the end of the year to 
keep going. 
The UK competition watchdog is after  new powers to crack down on companies profiteering from the pandemic. 
The Competition and Markets Authority received 21,000 complaints linked to Covid-19 over the six weeks to mid-
April, with those about price gouging reporting an average price increase of 130 per cent, or 367 per cent for hand 
sanitiser. But at the moment, the law doesn’t allow the body to pursue retailers over the practice.
Banks are investigating whether they pressured corporate clients into giving them extra business in return for loans, 
our  Banking Editor reports. Barclays, Deutsche Bank, HSBC and Santander are all looking at whether 
investment bankers might have tried to link emergency financing to more lucrative services, according to people 
familiar with the matter. The internal reviews follow an unusually strongly-worded letter to UK lenders from the FCA 
about the practice.
Coronavirus Spotlight
As part of a new weekly series, the FT looks at what it takes to be a  responsible business in the crisis. In the first 
three features,             Gillian Tett examines the ESG challenge, Patrick Temple-West considers the             
consequences for executive pay and our correspondents round up their corporate             ‘saints and sinners’ of the 
pandemic so far.
Beyond the Square Mile 
Alibaba founder Jack Ma  is stepping down from SoftBank’s board after 13 years. The resignation of Mr Ma follows 
the departure of outspoken critics of SoftBank founder Masayoshi Son’s pivot towards the $100bn Saudi-backed 
Vision investment fund. Mr Ma and Mr Son are close friends and have been business partners since the founder of 
SoftBank made his most successful investment in Alibaba in 2000. 
Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway has  dumped the bulk of its stake in Goldman Sachs that it acquired in the 
depths of the financial crisis. Berkshire sold more than 10m Goldman shares in the first quarter, a holding that was 
worth $2.3bn at the end of last year and represented 2.9 per cent of the investment bank, it revealed in a Friday 
night filing. The Goldman disposal by Mr Buffett, leaving Berkshire with a stake of less than 0.6 per cent in the Wall 
Street bank, is the clearest sign yet the world’s most prominent investor is intent to sit on the sidelines of the stock 
market.
JAB Holdings plans to raise as much as €2bn from  the Amsterdam listing of its JDE Peet’s coffee business as it 
presses ahead with what would be Europe’s largest IPO this year. JAB, which manages the wealth of Germany’s 
billionaire Reimann family, will this week unveil its intention to float the world’s largest pure-play coffee company 
and the biggest competitor to Nestlé, people with direct knowledge of the matter said.
Close to $500bn could be wiped from the  value of dividends paid by companies around the world as they scramble 
to protect balance sheets from the economic damage caused by the pandemic. According to fund manager Janus 
Henderson, the best-case scenario for global dividends this year is $213bn of cuts to leave a total payout of 
$1.21tn, a 15 per cent decline. But in a worst-case scenario — which includes all those companies that Janus 
Henderson believes are vulnerable to cutting their dividend — global payments to investors could fall $493bn, or 
more than a third, to $933bn.
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Rana Foroohar
Big Tech  may seem unstoppable during this crisis, but that is exactly why it will ultimately be curbed.
Patrick Jenkins
As the world reels from coronavirus — and effects that are set to be an order of magnitude worse than the 2008 
crash — it is striking that the question  of whether banks will need new capital is barely being asked.
City Bulletin: Ryanair braces for €200m first-quarter loss
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here. 
Load-Date: May 18, 2020
End of Document
Business faces stern test on ESG amid calls to ‘build back better’
Business faces stern test on ESG amid calls to ‘build back better’
 
FT.com
May 18, 2020 Monday 3:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1223 words
Byline: Gillian Tett
Body
Three months ago, Brian Chesky, chief executive of Airbnb, made a bold pledge: if he conducted an IPO, he would 
turn his business into a “stakeholder” company, serving employees and society as much as future shareholders.
It initially seemed just a trendy promise. After all, many US companies have made similar pledges since the 
Business Roundtable, the US corporate lobbying group, embraced stakeholder interests last August.
But now Airbnb is being tested, along with many other businesses. As Covid-19 has decimated its revenues, Mr 
Chesky has been forced to cut staff. But it was initially unclear how to do this in a “responsible” way. 
So Mr Chesky has branched out: on May 5 he cut 1,900 jobs, or 25 per cent of the total, but gave those laid off 14 
weeks of pay, an Airbnb laptop, equity stakes, job advice — and healthcare insurance for a year. “It was important 
that we had a clear set of principles, guided by our core values, for how we would approach reductions in our 
workforce,” he explained in an anguished letter to staff.
Other executives should ponder this tale. In recent weeks, as the coronavirus slump has intensified, some 
observers have wondered whether the 2019 chatter about stakeholders was just “a luxury good”, to quote from the 
title of a presentation by Linda Eling-Lee, global head of ESG (environmental, social and governance) research at 
index group MSCI. 
Business faces stern test on ESG amid calls to ‘build back better’
At an FT event last week, Michael O’Leary, head of Ryanair, argued that ESG would disappear in the downturn. “I 
suspect a lot of the environmental agenda is going to be put on the back burner for a few years [because of Covid-
19],” he said.
Representatives of ESG initiatives insist this is wrong. After all, Ms Eling-Lee points out, companies with high ESG 
rankings have outperformed rivals during the crisis. 
That means interest in ESG is likely to rise — not fall — according to Frédéric Samama, head of responsible 
investment at Amundi, the French asset manager. “Companies are more and more scrutinised [and] ESG factors 
can be a way to assess the adaptability skills of corporates,” he says.
Thus many investors and some chief executives argue that a key theme of the coming months will be not simply 
how to rebuild the economy after the Covid-19 shock — but how to build back better, in the sense of creating a 
more sustainable world and corporate sector alike. “Building back better is the key task now,” says Paul Polman, 
former chief executive of Unilever, who now runs Imagine, a network for companies trying to develop this agenda.
Determining how to do so is not simple. For one thing, the focus of “stakeholder” culture is undoubtedly changing. “I 
always say to people that ESG is a three letter word.” says Bernard Looney, chief executive of BP. “Before it was 
one dimensional . . . focused on climate. [But] this current crisis has caused that to evolve to the societal aspect of 
the role of corporations.”
Moreover, determining what the “S” in ESG should mean is harder than the “E” (and much trickier to measure). 
Many companies have responded to Covid-19 with a wave of philanthropy or practical help. AllianceBernstein, to 
cite one example, has started 3D printing medical supplies with equipment that the global asset management firm 
typically uses as part of a mentoring programme for local youths. 
Some companies have approached the “S” by rethinking how they deal with clients and business partners. The 
world’s largest cosmetics maker, L’Oréal, has undertaken for example to pay all its suppliers on the first day they 
can, rather than delaying as normal.
Sometimes, as one chief executive notes, “working out what is the responsible thing to do . . . is hard — attitudes 
shift”. Public opinion has also been an important guide for company behaviour, as our list of examples of best and 
worst corporate practice shows.
Consider Shake Shack, the restaurant group, which last month applied for a $10m loan from a US government 
small business programme. The company thought it could use the money to help staff. But its application caused a 
furore, since Shake Shack was deemed too big and healthy to qualify — so it returned the cash. 
“We were right to give it back,” says Danny Meyer, chief executive of Union Square Hospitality Group (USHG), 
which owns Shake Shack. 
Another flashpoint is dividends. The International Corporate Governance Network has asked companies to slash 
dividends to preserve long-term value and be socially responsible (ie preserve capital to protect employees instead 
of shareholders). 
Some are complying, particularly in Europe: a report from Morgan Stanley highlights “evidence of ESG factors 
behind dividend reductions or cancellations”. However, the US is lagging behind in this respect, and many 
executives consider it important to keep paying dividends, irrespective of any ESG pledges.
The biggest challenge, though, revolves around how companies treat staff. Some companies have faced censure 
for treating their employees in a cavalier way during the pandemic. Amazon vice-president Tim Bray resigned 
earlier this month in protest at the company’s firing of whistleblowers who were raising warehouse employees’ 
concerns about Covid-19 risks. Unions have complaints about similar problems at some retail giants and meat 
processing plants. 
Business faces stern test on ESG amid calls to ‘build back better’
Similarly, companies have also been criticised for how they have cut staff. In March the scooter start-up Bird 
triggered a social media storm by firing 400 workers with a two-minute Zoom video call.
However, a number are trying to behave with more empathy. When USHG’s Mr Meyer had to cut his restaurant 
staff, he put his own salary into a financial aid fund for them and promised help looking for new jobs. “We are trying 
to be the best unemployer we can,” he explains. 
Whether this will be enough to convince sceptics of the merits of ESG is unclear. It may not win public trust — yet. 
A recent poll by Edelman public relations group shows that while public trust in business is up four points to 62 per 
cent since January, only 43 per cent of the 13,000 people polled in 11 countries believe companies are protecting 
their employees sufficiently from Covid-19. “Our promises about stakeholder capitalism are being put to the test,” 
observed Richard Edelman, chief executive.
The longer the crisis drags on, however, the more important treatment of the workforce will be. Another recent 
survey by the Finsbury-owned Glover Park Group in Washington, for example, showed that 82 per cent of 
Americans want companies to offer sick pay to employees and 81 per cent want them to keep paying staff, even if 
operations stop. 
Maybe that is just wishful thinking on their part. However, it probably also highlights a shifting zeitgeist. The C-suite 
ignores this at its peril; particularly if Covid-19 continues to spread — and the impetus to “Build Back Better” 
continues to swell. 
Business ‘saints and sinners’ in the coronavirus crisis
To shed a light on some of the stellar, and not so stellar, corporate responses to the pandemic crisis, we asked the 
FT’s network of correspondents and columnists for examples of what they considered to be best and worst practice.
This list is intended not to be exhaustive but to illustrate a range of behaviour — from how companies have treated 
employees to the speed with which they have met society’s most important needs in lockdown.
Load-Date: May 26, 2020
End of Document
Frequent flyer: the battle for airline refunds
Frequent flyer: the battle for airline refunds
 
FT.com
May 18, 2020 Monday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 677 words
Byline: Michael Skapinker
Body
Many of the world’s grounded airlines are receiving lavish government funding. The French and Dutch governments 
are giving Air France-KLM about €10bn. Dubai is injecting new equity into Emirates. The US is providing its airlines 
with $25bn of support.
But there is another group that has been even more generous. It includes me, possibly you and millions of others 
who paid for flights that were then cancelled because of Covid-19 and who are now struggling to get refunds. 
Together, we have made an involuntary, no-interest, unsecured loan to the world’s airlines.
How much have we lent? Alexandre de Juniac, director-general of the International Air Transport Association, says 
we have paid $35bn for flights that cannot now take place. The law is clear. We are entitled to our money. If our 
flight was meant to start or end in the EU, the UK, Switzerland, Iceland or Norway we are owed a refund. The US 
Department of Transportation says, too, that if your flight is cancelled, you are entitled to get your money back, 
even for tickets that were sold on the basis that they were not refundable. In the US and the UK, consumers and 
lawyers have launched or are thinking of starting legal action to recover their money.
Yet worldwide, many airlines are doing everything they can to avoid shelling out. A common tactic is to push 
passengers to accept vouchers instead of cash. In the UK, Rory Boland, editor of Which? Travel, the consumer 
journal, credits easyJet and Jet2 with helping customers with refunds, but he points to Ryanair and British Airways 
as trying to slip out of their obligations.
Frequent flyer: the battle for airline refunds
BA allows customers to claim a voucher online but makes them phone to claim a refund. Boland said Which? had 
received complaints from customers unable to get through to BA on the phone. An FT reader emailed me that he 
had been trying for nearly two weeks.
Then there are airlines that make refunds look easy but hang on to the money. Before the crisis, I had booked a 
Singapore Airlines return ticket to Australia. When the flight was cancelled, I went on to the Singapore website, 
swiftly located the refund button and provided my details. Three weeks later I phoned the airline’s call centre to ask 
how my refund was getting on. I had no trouble getting through to a polite customer service person who confirmed 
that my request was being processed. When would I get my money? He couldn’t say. Weeks, months, years? 
Sorry, can’t tell you.
There’s a good reason for the airlines’ recalcitrance, of course. Many are on the verge of bankruptcy. De Juniac 
said they employed 2.7m people directly. A further 65.5m worked in the aviation value chain. Many are losing their 
jobs. Airlines need to conserve their cash. But customers have cash needs too. So do businesses whose staff were 
booked to fly.
That airlines might go bust adds to the consumer worry. If they do, what are those vouchers worth? And if you were 
waiting for a cash refund, what are your chances of getting it? The European Commission last week suggested 
airlines make vouchers more attractive. They should consider offering vouchers worth more than the refund. 
Passengers should be allowed to transfer their vouchers to someone else. Vouchers should be valid for at least 12 
months and, if unused at the end of that time, should be automatically redeemable for cash. Governments or the 
private sector should set up a scheme to guarantee the voucher’s value if the airline went out of business.
The EU hasn’t performed gloriously through the coronavirus crisis; its members have been cantankerous and self-
serving. But these are constructive proposals. They provide some hope that the airlines’ unwilling creditors may 
eventually be compensated for the flights they booked.
Follow Michael on Twitter  @Skapinker or email him at 
Follow  @FTLifeArts on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first. Listen to our podcast,             Culture Call, 
where FT editors and special guests discuss life and art in the time of coronavirus. Subscribe on             Apple,             
Spotify, or wherever you listen.
Load-Date: May 18, 2020
End of Document
Coronavirus is strengthening the hand of ESG investors
Coronavirus is strengthening the hand of ESG investors
 
FT.com
May 15, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 825 words
Byline: Billy Nauman in New York
Body
Just a few months ago, it seemed as if the fight against climate change had built some real momentum. But now, 
with coronavirus bringing global commerce to a screeching halt, sustainability is feeling like an unaffordable luxury 
for some cash-strapped companies.
“I suspect an awful lot of the environmental agenda and targets will be put on the back burner for a number of 
years,” said Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, the Irish carrier, at an  event hosted this week by the 
Financial Times. “[That is] not because we all care less about the environment. I think the much greater political 
issue is going to be massive unemployment across Europe [and] massive government indebtedness.”
With companies in danger of going under entirely, it seems reasonable to wonder how much executives will worry 
about renewable energy or planting trees.
Yet Mr O’Leary’s assertion may be misguided. For starters, the EU is looking to make emissions cuts  a prerequisite 
for any bailout of airlines. It has also shown no indication that it will retreat from its wider climate ambitions.
Meanwhile, investors are also still going all in on environmental, social and governance themes — and so far their 
bets have paid off. If anything, the pandemic has only reinforced fund managers’ belief that ESG is worth worrying 
about.
Coronavirus is strengthening the hand of ESG investors
Sustainability-themed funds saw  record inflows in the US in the first quarter, while the rest of the market saw 
hundreds of billions of dollars of outflows, according to data provider Morningstar. On top of that, many ESG indices       
      held up better through the downturn than their broad-market counterparts. 
“Talking to clients across the board, the reasons they want to integrate ESG have been supported and amplified by 
the crisis,” said Ted Eliopoulos, co-chair of the sustainable investing council at Morgan Stanley Investment 
Management. “The intensity in interest has also increased.”
Many investors see parallels between the climate crisis and the Covid-19 crisis. “There is no question this was a 
negative shock brought to you by nature,” said Hugh Lawson, head of institutional client strategy and ESG and 
impact strategy at Goldman Sachs Asset Management. 
For Mr Eliopoulos, screening for companies with high ESG scores is simply a way to find good executive teams. He 
argues that companies that consider environmental and social factors — and abide by good standards of corporate 
governance — should be better equipped to ride out a downturn and quickly get back up to speed. 
As such, the Covid-19 crisis will serve as a good “laboratory” to test the theories underpinning ESG investing, he 
said. “We’ll see [which companies] were able to anticipate, mitigate, and manage through this crisis better or 
worse.”
Investors have not let up on their efforts to push companies to be more responsible. Two out of every three  
proposals from shareholders submitted for annual meetings this year address environmental or social matters, 
according to Nuveen, an asset manager.
To be sure, many of those proposals were filed long before the pandemic, but there has also been no sign that 
activist investors are willing to let them drop by the wayside. 
Just this week, Legal & General Investment Management, the largest asset manager in the UK, announced it would  
vote against the board chair of ExxonMobil because of the company’s “lack of strategic ambition around climate 
change”. Climate-conscious shareholders also racked up a victory earlier this month when JPMorgan Chase 
announced it would             demote Lee Raymond, former chief of ExxonMobil, from his position as lead 
independent director. 
It is also clear that many companies do not see matters of sustainability as a serious burden, even in the grip of the 
pandemic. In the US, a group of more than 300 companies, including Microsoft, Capital One and Mars, this week 
called on the federal government to  pass a carbon tax and to put green projects at the heart of its coronavirus 
recovery plans.
Even within the aviation sector, there is still a push towards decarbonisation. Airlines for America, a trade group 
representing most of the largest carriers in the US, announced this week the approval of a new blend of sustainable 
aviation fuel.
Despite all of this, could Mr O’Leary still be right? Of course — mounting bankruptcies and unemployment could 
easily make governments, companies and investors prioritise growth by any means necessary.
There will be some tough decisions made over the next six months as companies fight for survival, said Mr 
Eliopoulos. But he argued that sustainability is a long-term play.
Nothing about the coronavirus crisis will dislodge the “secular trend” of companies taking sustainability seriously, 
agreed James Rich, senior portfolio manager at Aegon Asset Management in Chicago. The link between 
sustainability and index-beating returns is clear, he said. “If anything it has probably put a period at the end of that 
sentence.”
Load-Date: May 15, 2020
Coronavirus is strengthening the hand of ESG investors
End of Document
Will we be able to go on holiday this summer? 
Will we be able to go on holiday this summer? 
 
FT.com
May 14, 2020 Thursday 2:25 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 874 words
Byline: Tom Robbins
Body
Around the world, bars, restaurants, hotels and visitor attractions are being reopened as lockdowns are gradually 
lifted. The waiters are polishing the glasses in beachside tavernas and the tour operators and airlines that hope to 
take us there have been offering upbeat predictions. 
“Summer holidays are possible,” said Fritz Joussen, chief executive of Tui, Europe’s biggest travel firm, on 
Wednesday. “People want to travel — Europe must now gradually open.” A day earlier, Ryanair announced it would 
be resuming 40 per cent of flights in July. “It is time to get Europe flying again,” said chief executive Eddie Wilson. 
The problem is that, though the travel industry is ready, eager and willing, there is no clarity on when governments 
will give the green light. Bars and hotels in some of the Canary Islands have been open since May 4, for example, 
but if tourists from the UK — by far the biggest source market — attempted to visit this weekend they would be 
breaking the law before they had even reached the airport. Nor would they be able to get travel insurance for the 
trip, and they would be forced into self-quarantine for two weeks on arrival in Spain. 
Even where governments are determined to open their doors, hurdles remain. Iceland, where international tourism 
accounts for more than 40 per cent of foreign earnings (and where the tiny population means domestic holidays 
cannot take up the slack), announced this week that it would be easing restrictions on international travel no later 
than June 15. 
From that date, tourists will be able to avoid quarantine by taking a Covid-19 test on arrival, while probably also 
being asked to download a track-and-trace app. The country has recorded only three cases of the virus this month 
Will we be able to go on holiday this summer? 
(and only 10 deaths since the start of the crisis), and the chance to see its thrilling landscapes without crowds of 
others is an attractive prospect. But will potential tourists’ home countries allow them to go?
Iceland’s key markets are the UK and US. Though details are yet to be released, UK visitors are soon likely to face 
a 14-day quarantine on arriving home, while there is no date announced for when the US ban on flights to and from 
Europe and Asia might be lifted. Asked if international travel would be opened up this year Steven Mnuchin, the US 
Treasury secretary, said it was “too hard to tell at this point” and that the priority was opening the domestic 
economy. 
Ask your travel questions
Do you have a question about travel in 2020? Send it to us at ; we will answer as many as possible next week
Attempting to bring some clarity, on Wednesday the EU published a plan to “reboot” Europe’s tourism. It proposes a 
coordinated approach in which member nations with similar epidemiological states lift restrictions at the same time. 
In other parts of the world, countries with low infection rates are also working to set up quaratine-free “bubbles” or 
“corridors”. Australia and New Zealand have agreed to establish a “Trans-Tasman travel bubble”, as soon as safely 
possible, while Israel, Greece and Cyprus have discussed a tourism safe zone in the eastern Mediterranean.
Travellers between the UK and Ireland will not be subject to a quarantine, and the UK and France have also agreed 
an exemption — prompting much excitement at the prospect of holidays between the two countries. Eurotunnel, 
which operates car-carrying trains through the Channel tunnel, saw a spike in calls and website traffic this week. 
Eurocamp, a British company that offers camping holidays across Europe, this week saw a doubling in searches for 
trips in September and October, with northern France most in demand. However, there is still no guarantee when 
travel between the countries might be possible — France’s “state of health emergency” continues until at least mid-
July, and restrictions on travel within the country remain in place. 
 Light after the lockdown
FT editors look at how the coronavirus crisis will transform travel and the creative industries
That leaves one option likely to be the most reliable for this summer: a holiday in your home country. Classic 
Cottages, which rents 1,100 properties in southern and western England, saw a 63 per cent rise in reservations this 
week compared to last. Indie Campers, which rents campervans in 14 countries, says it has seen a boost in 
bookings over the last 10 days, driven by domestic trips — they account for 73 per cent of reservations this month 
compared with 24 per cent in May 2019. 
Perhaps a camper van, parked up on a lonely beach or mountain road, could be the perfect solution to the socially 
distanced summer holiday of 2020. 
Tom Robbins is the FT’s travel editor
Editor’s note: this article was published on Thursday May 14. The following evening it emerged that the proposed 
quarantine exemption for travellers between the UK and France was being dropped, while Irish Prime Minister Leo 
Varadkar announced that the existing advisory 14-day isolation period for arrivals would be made compulsory, 
including for visitors from the UK. Around the world, government and regional policies on movement continue to 
change rapidly, underlining the fact that, despite the travel industry’s optimism, the outlook for foreign travel remains 
unclear.  
Load-Date: May 17, 2020
End of Document
US airlines eye job cuts once bailout strings expire
US airlines eye job cuts once bailout strings expire
 
FT.com
May 14, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1088 words
Byline: Sujeet Indap in New York and Claire Bushey in Chicago
Body
The last time the US government pumped billions of dollars into an industry to deal with an economic crisis, it 
effectively took over two of the nation’s largest carmakers, securing large equity stakes in General Motors and 
Chrysler and forcing a painful operational restructuring that made the pair more efficient.
The Trump administration’s bailout of US airlines is different. The US Treasury is taking just a nominal equity 
interest in return for grants and  low-interest loans, attracting criticism it has been too generous to the companies’ 
shareholders.
Meanwhile, the terms of the deal explicitly prevent executives from quickly launching the painful restructuring other 
countries’ airlines are already doing, as they fight to survive in a world of much restricted air travel.
“This was a so-called bailout that required the CEOs to run their airlines in a way that no free market CEO who 
didn’t have the government aid would ever do,” said one of the bankers involved in negotiations between the 
Treasury and the airlines.
So far 93 US airlines have secured $12.4bn of an available $25bn in  government funding for payrolls, each getting 
70 per cent in the form of grants that do not have to be repaid. As well as curbing share buybacks and executive 
pay, companies that took the money agreed not to lay off staff or axe routes until September 30 — even though air 
passenger volumes in the US have fallen by more than 90 per cent since March, and a V-shape recovery is no 
longer in the cards.
US airlines eye job cuts once bailout strings expire
European carriers have announced waves of cuts — up to 12,000 jobs at British Airways, 3,000 at Ryanair, just in 
the past fortnight — but US airlines are still at the planning stage. United’s incoming chief executive, Scott Kirby, 
said he would  cut cash burn from $40m a day now towards $30m a day in the third quarter and then $20m a day in 
the fourth, if travel has not rebounded.
“The difference between that third-quarter number and that fourth-quarter number is really about employees,” he 
told investors earlier this month.
Some airline bosses tried to offer the government more equity in exchange for less onerous conditions, including 
giving the carriers the flexibility to close some uneconomical flying routes and cutting jobs, said the person involved 
in the talks.
The government, however, was pursuing twin aims of ensuring airlines would still be there at the end of the 
pandemic and that employees would be retained, even if taxpayers were funding their salaries.
“We wanted a package directed towards Americans and funnelled through airlines,” said Sarah Nelson the 
president of the Association of Flight Attendants. “It’s very clear that the money goes to worker wages and benefits.”
The airlines benefit, too, because while the restrictions delay the reduction in cash burn, it allows airlines to gauge 
the new normal, said analyst Savanthi Syth at Raymond James. “It helps to have a little more visibility into what the 
new demand environment looks like before you make drastic changes to the business,” she said.
But executives’ hopes for recovery have darkened in the seven weeks since the bailout was enacted, and waiting to 
downsize carries a cost. Berenberg analyst Adrian Yanoshik noted that, “as a shareholder or even a debt-holder, if 
you have cash in the door, and it’s being used, you want that cash to be used to the highest return possible, and if 
you’re keeping people and capacity flying which is not earning a return, then that is inefficient”.
The Trump administration did relax the minimum-service rules this week, saying it would allow some airlines to drop 
routes as long as they were served by another carrier.
Restrictions on lay-offs may not be eased, but Wall Street is in no doubt about what will happen when they end. 
JPMorgan Chase analyst Jamie Baker, in a recent note, said: “October 1 is likely to emerge as one of the darkest 
days in history for airline labour.”
The taxpayer has little likelihood of recovering their investment, because even a strong rebound for share prices is 
likely to offset only some of the cost of the grants.
 Delta Air Lines, for example, secured $5.4bn from the bailout, of which $3.8bn was a forgivable grant with the rest 
in the form of a 10-year unsecured loan. Warrants were also granted to the government for 1 per cent of Delta’s 
equity, giving the Treasury the right to buy stock at April’s level. Delta stock would need to multiply from $22 now to 
about $575, according to Financial Times calculations, for taxpayers to make back their outlay.
Can US taxpayers recoup the money put into the nation’s airlines?
A positive outcome for airlines’ shareholders is hardly certain, dependent not just on cutting cash burn before and 
after the September 30 expiry of lay-off restrictions but on finding other savings, too. Famed investor Warren Buffett 
has given up on the sector, selling his stakes in the four largest US carriers at a loss. “You’ve got too many planes,” 
he said.
Shareholders are also reliant on airlines finding the finance to see them through whatever the pandemic throws at 
them.
The Bush and Obama Administrations spent tens of billions funding the bankruptcies of GM and Chrysler when 
there was no private capital available. The Trump administration’s intervention in the airline industry has not so 
much replaced private capital as helped carriers to access it. Delta  raised $5bn from investors last month by 
mortgaging assets including airport landing slots, for example, and             United sold $1bn of equity.
US airlines eye job cuts once bailout strings expire
Airlines also have the option of further government funding from a  second $25bn bailout pot, which next time would 
come not as grants but as secured loans — aeroplanes are the most likely collateral — with an interest rate that 
fluctuates based on a carrier’s creditworthiness.
To accept means yielding more warrants to the US Treasury. American Airlines, the most heavily indebted carrier 
and the only one so far to have said it will certainly take the second bailout, will emerge with the government 
holding an interest equal to 12 per cent of the company.
The coronavirus pandemic has turned the US government into a financing source of last resort for swaths of 
corporate America, but the socialisation of risk and the picking of winners and losers has concerned some.
“Equity investors get limited liability, and yet they get the upside of profits,” noted Anthony Casey a University of 
Chicago law professor. “Businesses go bad for arbitrary reasons all the time. There is no obvious reason to funnel 
money to equity investors.”
Load-Date: May 14, 2020
End of Document
City Bulletin: Ryanair sets July 1 target to get 40% of planes back in the air
City Bulletin: Ryanair sets July 1 target to get 40% of planes back in the air
 
FT.com
May 12, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 833 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Ryanair has announced plans to return to 40 per cent of its normal flight schedule from July 1, a hugely ambitious 
statement given lockdowns are only just starting to ease. The airline said the move was subject to government 
restrictions on intra-EU flights being lifted and “effective public health measures being put in place at airports”. 
Ryanair’s chief executive Eddie Wilson said that “after four months, it is time to get Europe flying again”. He added 
that with more than six weeks until July 1, the airline “believes that is the most practical date to resume normal flight 
schedules”. 
Ryanair has previously said that it wouldn’t resume flying if it had to fly emptier planes to comply with social 
distancing measures. But it will ban queueing for toilets on its planes, ask passengers to wear face coverings and 
check fewer bags, and introduce more measures to limit contact.
Briefly
Landsec, one of Britain’s biggest landlords, has said that less than 10 per cent of its office space is currently in use, 
showing the extent of the shift to home working during the pandemic. Retail sites have been harder hit in terms of 
rent collection, though. Overall, 63 per cent of rents were collected within 10 days of falling due in March and early 
April, down from 94 per cent at the same time last year. Landsec’s portfolio fell in value by around 9 per cent in the 
year to March. 
City Bulletin: Ryanair sets July 1 target to get 40% of planes back in the air
Grocer Wm Morrison said a sharp drop in fuel sales had more than offset a bump in grocery sales, affecting its 
working capital and debt levels. Grocery sales were up 5.7 per cent in the 14 weeks to May 10, with fuel sales down 
70 per cent since lockdown started midway through Morrisons’ reporting period. Morrisons also said it was costlier 
operating in a “more volatile trading environment”, but that the business rates holiday should broadly offset the 
increase.
Vodafone, which has full-year results out on Tuesday, says it will not be immune to the impact of coronavirus. 
Roaming revenues have been hit by lower international travel, and it said economic pressures would affect 
customer revenues over time despite higher data volumes. It forecasts adjusted ebitda for the new financial year 
“flat or slightly down”. For the year to March, it made adjusted ebitda of €14.9bn, but on a statutory basis it reported 
a €455m loss because of writedowns on its Indian business.
Finally, Kingfisher, which owns B&Q and Screwfix in the UK and Castorama and Brico Dépôt in France, reported a 
24 per cent drop in sales for the three months to April. Now, 95 per cent of its stores are either open or offering a 
click and collect service.
Coronavirus Spotlight
Could coronavirus have ushered in peak oil? BP’s new boss, Bernard Looney, has told the FT that the Covid-19 
induced drop in crude consumption is likely to endure past the pandemic. But he also muses that the changes in 
working brought by the disease means that we should not write off a permanent decline in demand for oil from pre-
coronavirus levels. Read the interview  here.
Beyond the Square Mile 
BlackRock’s top shareholder, PNC Financial,  will sell its $17bn stake in the asset manager, freeing up the 
Pittsburgh-based bank to pursue potential acquisitions. PNC holds a 22 per cent stake in BlackRock that it 
purchased in 1995, representing about 35m shares through common and convertible preferred stock. BlackRock’s 
share price has outperformed its listed US fund management peers for years as the company has grown and 
diversified its revenues, in part by expanding into technology.
The mass testing that is central to lockdown exit plans in many countries is unrealistic because of  high costs and 
lack of production capacity, according to the boss of an Italian biotech company that supplies tests around the 
world. Carlo Rosa, chief executive of DiaSorin, which sells Covid-19 diagnostic and antibody tests, said demand far 
exceeded supply and the percentage of people who had contracted the virus globally was too low to hope for mass 
immunity as another way out of restrictive lockdown measures. 
As cyber criminals and hackers ramp up their attacks on businesses amid coronavirus-related disruption, 
companies are also facing another equally grave security threat:  their own employees. Firms are increasingly 
turning to Big Brother-style surveillance tools to stop staff from leaking or stealing sensitive data, as millions work 
away from the watchful eyes of their bosses and waves of job cuts leave some workers disgruntled.
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Lex
The Virgin Galactic listing earlier this year is now proving to be the  masterstroke (or lucky stroke) that could give 
Richard Branson’s empire a fighting chance.
Lombard Socially-distanced building sites no doubt pose all sorts of logistical challenges. Even if those can be 
overcome, the  bigger problem for housebuilders is whether they can sell what they construct.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can             sign-up here.
City Bulletin: Ryanair sets July 1 target to get 40% of planes back in the air
Load-Date: May 12, 2020
End of Document
Tesla / Ryanair : lockdown mavericks
Tesla/Ryanair: lockdown mavericks
 
FT.com
May 12, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 428 words
Body
The battle between lockdown and reopen proponents just moved up a notch. Tesla boss Elon Musk and Ryanair’s 
Michael O’Leary are chafing at the cash drain of silent factories and grounded planes. They are challenging public 
health guidelines and switching the lights back on. Arrest me,  taunted Mr Musk.
As bosses of companies worth a combined $160bn — and burning through, respectively, an estimated $200m and 
€60-100m a week — the duo have much at stake. But they are not alone. Many small enterprises are quietly 
ignoring health advice in its full extent, including two metres of personal space for every worker, to reactivate 
business as normal.
Renegade returnees are taking their stance on a divide that has been exaggerated by political prevarication: 
reopening the economy versus continued lockdown. Both bosses claim premature openings strike a blow for 
freedom. Shareholders should wince just as hard as employee rights campaigners. The real reasons are financial.
Mr O’Leary plans to fly 1,000 flights a day, or 40 per cent of the Irish airline’s capacity, from July 1, subject to the 
removal of government curbs in intra-EU flights and introduction of health measures at airports. Even with its high 
level of variable operating costs and a payroll backstopped by government it is looking at a first quarter loss. At 40 
per cent capacity in at least part of the second quarter - plus lower ticket prices and refund-forwarded flights it will 
struggle to turn a profit over the summer period. This is still a lot better than the wipeout that would result from 
extended closure and a slow, cautious reopening.
Similar logic applies to Mr Musk. Reduced deliveries and operating losses could leave his US electric car company 
burning through $2.4bn this quarter, reckon GLJ’s bearish analysts. That will take a significant bite from the $8.8bn 
cash on the balance sheet at the end of the last quarter. 
Tesla / Ryanair : lockdown mavericks
The entrepreneur has threatened to decamp to a more laissez-faire state. Any operational savings gleaned by 
quitting high-cost California would be more than obliterated by the cost of the move. 
There is more to running a business than putting planes in the sky and cars on the road. You need social consent 
too. Bosses jeopardise that when they risk the lives of employees and customers. If fatalities ensue, so may a 
public outcry, customer disenchantment and punishment by the state. It helps to be tough in business. But you are 
never tougher than authorities with police and prosecutors at their command.
Combined worth of companies corrected after publication.
Load-Date: May 13, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair ’s O’Leary slams UK quarantine plan as ‘nonsense’
Ryanair’s O’Leary slams UK quarantine plan as ‘nonsense’
 
FT.com
May 12, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 483 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary condemned the 14-day quarantine plan on passengers arriving in the UK 
as “nonsense” with no scientific basis behind it as the airline pledged to resume 40 per cent of flights from July. 
Speaking at  the FT’s Global Boardroom event on Tuesday, Mr O’Leary said: “We can’t be imposing these entirely 
arbitrary and non-scientific 14-day isolations, which are entirely unenforceable and unpoliceable anyway.
“This is a country that can’t even do testing and tracing, never mind following up on people on where they are 
spending their 14-day isolation.” 
Mr O’Leary added the plan could not be scientific, if the French and Irish were exempt from the quarantine 
measures.
Europe’s largest low-cost carrier on Tuesday  laid out plans to resume flights from most of its 80 bases across the 
continent, increasing the number of flights from 30 since lockdowns were imposed in March to almost 1,000 a day. 
In recent weeks, carriers have tentatively looked at resuming flights. Wizz Air restarted some routes from Luton 
airport at the start of the month, while IAG, the parent company of British Airways, has signalled plans to resume 
operations from July. 
However, the stricken industry suffered a setback on Sunday when the UK government announced plans to  
introduce a 14-day quarantine for people arriving by air, a move that many airlines think would extinguish hope of a 
resumption in international travel.
Ryanair ’s O’Leary slams UK quarantine plan as ‘nonsense’
British Airways owner IAG has  already warned that this is likely to undermine its plan to resume 50 per cent of its 
flights in July. 
The FT last month first revealed Ryanair had planned to resume about  40 per cent of capacity, rising to 80 per cent 
by September. However, Mr O’Leary said it now expected capacity to increase to about 60 to 70 per cent by 
September. 
The carrier is preparing to cut up to  15 per cent of its 19,000 workforce. British Airways is reducing up to 30 per 
cent of its 42,000 jobs, while Virgin Atlantic last week announced plans to axe up to a third of its staff. 
Ryanair on Tuesday said passengers would be expected to wear face masks or coverings at all times in the 
terminal and on the aircraft, and should check in online and with fewer bags.
It added that queueing for toilets would be prohibited on board, but use of toilets would still be accessible to 
individuals upon request. Its cabin crew will also wear face masks or coverings. 
Ryanair said it would require all passengers flying in July and August to fill in details at check-in of how long their 
planned visit would be and also their holiday address. This information would be given to EU governments to help 
them monitor any isolation regulations they require.
Mr O’Leary also told the FT Global Boardroom event that the airline was planning to make more legal complaints to 
countries over state aid concerns, having already filed two against Swedish and French bailouts. 
Load-Date: May 5, 2021
End of Document
Airlines/social distancing: flights of fancy
Airlines/social distancing: flights of fancy
 
FT.com
May 10, 2020 Sunday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 452 words
Body
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s mouthy boss, put it best: social distancing on planes is  idiotic.
That is of little consequence to frustrated holidaymakers and business travellers desperate to visit their villas in the 
south of France for the same cost as their trips last year.
Biomedically and financially, keeping middle seats empty in planes is up there with chocolate teapots. Suppose — 
wildly — that social distancing worked in a  confined space and that rampant toddlers kept to their seats and 
everyone wiped down overhead luggage after every use. The two-metre restriction would mean losing more than 
middle seats; passengers could no longer be close to those behind or in front of them either. On some industry 
estimates that means emptying             seven seats per passenger. 
Take a  Boeing 747 with 345 seats. Assume it can keep all its first-class and half its business-class seats; slice six-
sevenths of the remainder (14 + 26 + 40 = 80) and you get a plane that is three-quarters empty. Applying similar 
maths to one of Ryanair’s             189-seaters would fill say 35 seats, or one-fifth of the plane.
These numbers are far below the 70-75 per cent load factor Iata, the industry’s trade body, reckons airlines need to 
break even. Slashing payroll bills — even with the thousands of  job cuts being announced almost daily — will not 
begin to cover a shortfall that wide. Six European airlines, including Virgin Atlantic and Lufthansa, have under five 
months of liquidity left, according to according to analysts at Redburn.
In order to square on-board social distancing with profitability, airlines would need to jack up ticket prices threefold. 
Thus a London-Dublin hop, now advertised at €23.46 on Ryanair, would need to rise to a far from discount €70; a 
Airlines/social distancing: flights of fancy
British Airways London-Hong Kong return  currently advertised at £551 would need to tip £1,600. Of course, the 
more prices rise, the fewer the passengers. 
Horrid economics for airlines have always been with us. Warren Buffett, conceding his penchant for airline 
investments was  misplaced, is a lagging indicator. When BA listed in 1987, after a torrid period fraught with losses 
and litigation, UK institutional investors were “unenthusiastic”. A             government postmortem at the time sourly 
pointed the finger at “the tone of press comment which portrayed airlines as a riskier form of investment”. 
As then, another round of severe restructuring is required. Some painful steps, such as mass job cuts and 
bankruptcies, have already begun. That will set the stage for a slow recovery — at least until the next crisis strikes.
Our popular newsletter for premium subscribers Best of Lex is published twice weekly. Please sign up  here.
Load-Date: May 10, 2020
End of Document
Virgin Atlantic to cut third of staff to survive Covid-19 crisis
Virgin Atlantic to cut third of staff to survive Covid-19 crisis
 
FT.com
May 5, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 731 words
Byline: Tanya Powley
Body
Virgin Atlantic is preparing to cut almost a third of its 10,000 workforce and close its London Gatwick operations as 
the airline scales back to survive the coronavirus crisis. 
The British airline on Tuesday warned it would take up to three years to return to 2019 traffic levels and announced 
plans to cut up to 3,150 jobs. 
Its plan to reshape the business comes after a turbulent week for the aviation industry, with thousands of planned 
job cuts at British Airways, Ryanair, Scandinavian airline SAS and aerospace manufacturer Rolls-Royce.
Virgin Atlantic will exit Gatwick airport, where it has been based for the past 35 years, and move leisure flying to 
London Heathrow as well as keeping its base at Manchester airport.  
The move will come as a further blow to the airport after BA signalled it could also bear the brunt of its own job cuts 
amid warnings its Gatwick operation  may not return following the coronavirus crisis. 
In an internal post to staff, seen by the Financial Times, Shai Weiss, chief executive at Virgin Atlantic, warned 
current cost measures and support packages were “not enough”. 
“If we are to safeguard our future and emerge from this crisis a sustainably profitable business, now is the time for 
further decisive action to reduce our costs and preserve cash,” he wrote. 
Virgin Atlantic to cut third of staff to survive Covid-19 crisis
Virgin Group, which owns 51 per cent of Virgin Atlantic, is racing to find  new investors within the next month as the 
airline fights for its survival. 
It has also been in talks with the UK government for the past month over a £500m bailout of commercial loans and 
guarantees. 
However, its initial plan was  rejected last month after the government was left unimpressed by its failure to seek 
investment elsewhere. It continues to be in “constructive” talks with the government. 
“It has been clear throughout that any potential investor, including HM Government, expects us to have taken all 
possible self-help measures as a precondition to funding,” wrote Mr Weiss. 
In the past few days, airline groups and aerospace manufacturers have grown increasingly pessimistic over 
recovery. 
Last week, British Airways revealed plans to cut almost  30 per cent of its 42,000-strong workforce, while Ryanair 
said it would axe up to             15 per cent. SAS, the Scandinavian airline, said it would permanently cut half — 
5,000 — of its staff. Like BA and Ryanair, Virgin Atlantic has also furloughed staff through the government’s Covid-
19 job retention scheme. Rolls-Royce announced plans for up to 8,000 job cuts.
Virgin Atlantic plans to retain its slots at Gatwick airport by leasing them out to other airlines, giving it the option to 
return when the aviation market returns to normal.
Gatwick airport was “saddened” by the news but said it would work with Virgin Atlantic to look at restarting 
operations when demand returned.
“We remain very optimistic about the long-term prospects of Gatwick airport and our resilience as a business, and 
having remained open throughout this pandemic we are in a strong position to extend our current operations quickly 
to meet demand,” it said.
It will also cut the number of aircraft types it flies as part of its latest cost-cutting measures. It will no longer use its 
seven 747-400s, and plans to retire its four A330-200 aircraft in early 2022. 
This will see it reduce its 43-strong fleet to 36, and leave just three — more efficient and environmentally friendly — 
plane types: A350, B787 and A330-300s. 
Separately, it plans to rebrand Virgin Holidays as Virgin Atlantic Holidays and also plans to close about 15 per cent 
of its branded stores in 2020. It intends to focus instead on its partnership with Next, the retailer, and online selling. 
Brian Strutton, general secretary at Balpa, the British pilot union, hit out at the government for “sitting on its hands 
while aviation plunges further towards a death spiral”. The union wants the government to call a moratorium on job 
losses in aviation. 
Virgin Atlantic has long struggled with profitability, reporting losses for the past two years. However, the airline was 
expecting to return to profit by the end of 2020, one year earlier than it had originally planned. 
“We have weathered many storms since starting up almost 36 years ago. None has been as devastating as this 
terrible pandemic and the associated loss of life and livelihood for so many around the world and the UK,” wrote Mr 
Weiss.
Load-Date: May 5, 2020
End of Document
BOC Aviation taps parent for assault on leasing market
BOC Aviation taps parent for assault on leasing market
 
FT.com
May 4, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 555 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger, International Business Editor
Body
BOC Aviation, one of the ­­­biggest aircraft leasing companies, is tapping parent company Bank of China for funds 
to help it snare a greater share of the multibillion-dollar industry as even the strongest airlines seek to raise cash by 
selling off their jets.
Robert Martin, chief executive of the world’s fifth-biggest lessor by owned aircraft value, said BOC Aviation had 
begun to draw down funds from a $2bn “backstop” revolving credit facility, provided by the bank, for the first time 
since 2011. 
Last week the group also concluded a $1bn five-year bond issue, testing the market’s appetite for exposure to a 
sector that is struggling to survive the collapse in global air travel as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. Before 
the bond issue liquidity stood at $3.6bn. 
The Singapore-based company intended to move quickly to acquire aircraft “at good prices with long leases” of 12-
16 years, Mr Martin said. He insisted that the new financing was not because the group needed cash to cope with a 
wave of requests for rental deferrals from the its 90 airline customers.
 “We are using the opportunity to focus on the best airlines around the world. Better-credit people who previously 
would have paid cash are now coming to people like us for funding support,” he told the Financial Times. “By the 
end of April we will have done $5bn of additional sale and leasebacks.”
BOC Aviation taps parent for assault on leasing market
Two weeks ago, BOC Aviation secured United Airlines, one of the world’s largest carriers, as a client when it 
agreed to buy and immediately lease back 22 of the airline’s aircraft.  
The deal, which involves six 787 twin aisles and 16 737 Max single aisles, is estimated to be worth several billion 
dollars. In recent weeks, at the height of the pandemic, it also completed sale and leaseback transactions with 
Cathay Pacific and American Airlines.
BOC Aviation’s push comes as the aircraft leasing industry faces a severe squeeze on revenues and the threat of 
impairments to aircraft values as a result of the crisis. Avolon, the third-biggest lessor by value of owned aircraft, 
said last month that 80 per cent of its customers were seeking rental holidays. 
Carriers such as Ryanair, British Airways and Lufthansa have announced thousands of job losses while Virgin 
Australia went into administration last month. Norwegian Air Shuttle is planning a rescue debt-for-equity swap. 
The crisis marks a sharp reversal on a decade of expansion in the aviation industry, which has fuelled a boom in 
aircraft financing. According to Ascend by Cirium, the aviation consultancy, more than 100 new operating lessors 
have entered the sector in the past decade. 
New investors, such as pension funds and insurers, were drawn to the higher, steadier yields offered by aircraft 
financing in the low-interest environment of recent years. Strong demand for passenger jets also facilitated the 
movement of aircraft away from potentially troubled customers to new airlines, giving lessors’ rental streams an 
aura of security.
However, the global nature of the aviation crisis, with more than two-thirds of the world’s fleet in storage and several 
airlines asking for government bailouts, makes placing aircraft with new customers more difficult. Moreover, lease 
rates are expected to come under pressure, while low oil prices reduce the need to upgrade to more efficient 
aircraft.
Load-Date: May 4, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair to axe up to 3,000 jobs as it warns over slow recovery
Ryanair to axe up to 3,000 jobs as it warns over slow recovery
 
FT.com
May 1, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 629 words
Byline: Tanya Powley
Body
Ryanair is preparing to cut up to 15 per cent of its 19,000 workforce as it becomes the latest airline to warn that the 
aviation industry faces a slow recovery from the upheaval wrought by coronavirus. 
Europe’s largest low-cost carrier said it expected it would take at least two years for a return to last year’s levels of 
passenger demand and pricing, as it laid out plans to cut further costs. 
Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s outspoken chief executive, said his outlook on the recovery had changed over the past 
week in light of the €9bn bailout Air France-KLM had won from the French and Dutch governments, and the state 
aid Lufthansa is expected to receive. 
He said the “whole competitive market has now been completely turned on its head”. 
“The weakest airlines going into the crisis — Lufthansa, Air France, KLM, Alitalia — who were going to in normal 
circumstances have to restructure and retrench are now going to be enormously enriched with this state aid 
doping. I think what we are facing now is that . . . they’ll be able to make life very difficult for the well-run airlines like 
ourselves, BA and easyJet.”
Mr O’Leary said Ryanair had to respond by downsizing the airline for the next 12 months. “Unless we have 
materially lower costs for the next 12-24 months, we won’t be able to operate successfully in a market where air 
fares are going to be materially lower.”
Ryanair to axe up to 3,000 jobs as it warns over slow recovery
Ryanair intends to axe as many as 3,000 pilot and cabin crew jobs, and introduce pay cuts of up to 20 per cent as 
well as close a number of aircraft bases around Europe until air travel recovers. Mr O’Leary will extend his 50 per 
cent pay cut for the remainder of the financial year to March 2021. 
He said it probably should be considering job cuts of up a third of its workforce, and could not rule out further 
reductions later, but said it was attempting to preserve jobs. 
Ryanair’s comments come as any optimism over a speedy recovery for the industry is evaporating, forcing carriers 
to move from furloughing workers to making redundancies. 
On Tuesday, British Airways revealed plans to axe  almost 30 per cent of its 42,000-strong workforce after its 
parent company IAG warned that it could take several years to return to 2019 traffic levels. SAS, the Scandinavian 
airline, said it would permanently cut half — 5,000 — of its staff. 
Ryanair on Friday said it expected to carry no more than 50 per cent of its original traffic target of 44.6m 
passengers between July and September. For the full year, ending March 2021, it is forecasting fewer than 100m 
passengers — 35 per cent below its original target of 154m. 
In April, May and June, it expects to carry just 150,000 passengers — 99.5 per cent short of its previous target of 
42.4m passengers. 
The carrier said it was also reviewing its growth plans and aircraft orders, adding that it was in “active negotiations” 
with both Boeing and Laudamotion’s A320 lessors to cut the number of planned aircraft deliveries over the next 24 
months. 
The market update comes just a week after Mr O’Leary gave a  bullish outlook for a recovery in air travel, outlining 
plans for the airline to resume 80 per cent of flights by September, provided that flying in Europe could restart from 
early July. However, he admitted that these planes would have low load factors.
On Friday, Mr O’Leary said there was still a chance Ryanair could reach 2019 traffic volumes by next summer but 
said it would take until 2022 for 2019 pricing levels to return. 
He confirmed Ryanair had also filed a legal complaint to the European Commission over its state aid concerns, and 
said it would launch legal action by the end of the month. 
Tell us about what’s happening around you. Are jobs being cut? Are workers being put at risk? Send your 
tips and stories to coronavirus@ft.com
Load-Date: May 3, 2020
End of Document
Heathrow’s third runway plan faces further delay of at least two years
Heathrow’s third runway plan faces further delay of at least two years
 
FT.com
May 1, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 616 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Jim Pickard in London
Body
Heathrow’s plans for a third runway face at least another two-year delay, its management admitted on Friday, amid 
calls for the £14bn project to be shelved.
John Holland-Kaye, chief executive, signalled that the airport would have to take a decision at a later date on 
whether it went ahead with the runway in light of the turbulence in the aviation market.
If it did go ahead, the runway would not be completed until the beginning of the 2030s because of the coronavirus 
crisis and an appeal in court.
“If we are successful in protecting and building the UK economy we will need that third runway, whether it’s in 10 or 
15 years’ time I don’t know,” he said. “We’re privately funding it ourselves so we will have to make a rational 
decision about making that investment. But I think the UK will need it.” 
Heathrow expected passenger numbers to have plunged by 97 per cent in April. It warned the UK government 
needed to signal within the next week how flying could restart, or there would be mass redundancies across the 
industry. This week British Airways and Ryanair announced cuts to their workforce of almost 30 per cent and 15 per 
cent respectively.
“We’re at a critical point, a knife-edge, where those decisions are going to be made in the next month or two. If the 
government wants to save jobs it needs to be out there committing to working on this common international 
standard [for safe air travel to encourage passengers to fly],” said Mr Holland-Kaye. 
Heathrow’s third runway plan faces further delay of at least two years
These internationally agreed standards would include temperature checks at all airports and mandatory face mask-
wearing but Mr Holland-Kaye warned that social distancing would not work at airports. 
One former Tory cabinet minister said the aviation crisis gave Boris Johnson the “perfect excuse” to finally scupper 
the runway — a scheme the prime minister had opposed for many years. He said it was unclear whether aviation 
demand would ever return to its levels before Covid-19. 
One senior minister said: “I don’t see any prospect whatsoever of it happening.” 
Separately Andrew Adonis, a former Labour transport secretary, predicted that travellers would increasingly turn 
from flying to “greener” railway services.
“I don’t think the third runway at Heathrow is now going to be built in the 2020s, maybe never,” said Lord Adonis, 
who has previously been a high-profile backer of the project. 
The government has sought to remain neutral about the runway since a  Court of Appeal ruling in February, which 
concluded the government had failed to assess the impact of the expansion on international climate change 
agreements. 
It ruled that the government’s aviation national policy statement was therefore unlawful. The government has not 
lodged an appeal against the decision and is leaving Heathrow to make its own legal challenge.
The UK’s Civil Aviation Authority this week laid out plans to base its next five-year price control for Heathrow on a 
two-runway plan — rather than three — in light of Covid-19 and the Court of Appeal ruling. 
The airport on Friday reported a £278m loss before tax for the first quarter of the year, compared with a profit of 
£132m in the same period the previous year, as revenues dropped 12.7 per cent to £593m. 
Heathrow has reduced costs by about 30 per cent, through cutting management pay, renegotiating all contracts and 
consolidating operations to two terminals and one runway, while capital expenditure has been reduced by £650m. 
The group had sufficient liquidity to survive for 12 months even without passengers, it said.
Additional reporting by Harry Dempsey
Tell us about what’s happening around you. Are jobs being cut? Are workers being put at risk? Send your 
tips and stories to coronavirus@ft.com
Load-Date: May 1, 2020
End of Document
Opening Quote: Ryanair axes 3,000 jobs and lashes out at ‘state aid doping’ rivals
Opening Quote: Ryanair axes 3,000 jobs and lashes out at ‘state aid doping’ 
rivals
 
FT.com
May 1, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 718 words
Byline: Myles McCormick
Body
The crisis gripping the airline industry shows no sign of abating.
Ryanair said on Friday it would take at least two years for demand to return to 2019 levels as it announced 3,000 
job cuts — or around 15 per cent of its workforce.
The budget carrier plans to operate less than 1 per cent of its flights between April and June before making a 
“meaningful” return to the skies from July — though even then it reckons passenger numbers will be no more than 
50 per cent of what it had planned.
Efforts to stem the spread of coronavirus have left the aviation industry facing the worst crisis in its history. 
Ryanair’s job cuts come after rival British Airways said earlier this week it would axe  up to 12,000 roles. 
The airline took the opportunity to lash out at rivals from Lufthansa to Air France-KLM for what it called “state aid 
doping”, insisting government interventions of over €30bn would leave the competitive landscape in Europe 
“distorted” when the sector eventually takes off again. 
Briefly
Opening Quote: Ryanair axes 3,000 jobs and lashes out at ‘state aid doping’ rivals
Elsewhere in the aviation sector, Heathrow Airport expects passenger numbers to have dropped by around 97 per 
cent in April — underlining the extent of the malaise in the industry. BA owner IAG said it had signed syndicated 
financing agreements to the tune of €750m and €260m for its Iberia and Vueling subsidiaries.
Royal Bank of Scotland was on Friday the latest bank  to report its first quarter earnings — and so the latest bank 
to post a spike in bad loan provisions. The state-owned lender announced an £802m rise in credit impairment 
charges, a near tenfold increase on the same time last year, as the coronavirus pandemic forces it to prepare for 
loans to go sour at a rapid rate. Net profit slid 59 per cent to £288m.
Intu, one of the biggest shopping centre owners in the UK, said it had agreed waivers on some provisions of its 
£600m revolving credit facility — after  saying last month it was likely to breach debt covenants in July. But the 
heavily indebted group said it had still received just 40 per cent of the rent it was due for the second three months of 
the year. It also announced the appointment of turnround specialist David Hargrave as chief restructuring officer. 
Beyond the Square Mile 
Amazon reported  record first-quarter net sales of $75.5bn on Thursday but said costs associated with protecting 
workers from Covid-19 could wipe out profits in the current quarter. The ecommerce company spent $600m on 
covid-related costs in the first three months of this year but it said that is expected to skyrocket to $4bn in the three-
month period ending in June. Amazon’s share price, which ended Thursday’s session at a record high, fell about 5 
per cent in after-hours trading.
Sales of accessories such as Airpods and watches and services from its App store helped Apple mitigate the 
financial damage caused by falling sales of its phones and other hardware products as the coronavirus forced the 
closure of stores across the globe. Apple’s chief financial officer said the company had seen an “uptick” in sales in 
recent weeks thanks to the new iPhone SE as well as updates to the iPad tablet and MacBook Air computer as it 
reported sales of $58.3bn for the first three months of the year.
ConocoPhillips, the US oil producer, on Thursday announced its  second cut to production in less than two weeks 
as it reported a $1.7bn loss for the first quarter of 2020. The production cut of 460,000 barrels a day in June is 
greater than most Opec countries pledged to remove in the cartel’s historic supply deal last month are more than 
double the volume announced by Conoco             two weeks ago.
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Satya Nadella
Society’s deepest concerns are rooted right now in two connected questions: how do we protect public health and 
how can we promote an economic recovery that is inclusive? But  a third question is becoming more important 
because of the pervasive use of technology in this crisis: how do we preserve the privacy and cyber security 
needed for trustworthy computing?
Lombard Lloyds Banking Group has probably banked  enough capital to shoulder the knocks. But the uncertainty 
that saps its customers’ energy will continue to sap Lloyds’ shares.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here. 
Load-Date: May 1, 2020
End of Document
The week business waved goodbye to the V-shape recovery
The week business waved goodbye to the V-shape recovery
 
FT.com
May 1, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 563 words
Byline: Tom Braithwaite
Body
Remember the V-shaped recovery? Not long ago, it was the economic consensus: a short sharp shock from the 
pandemic followed by a rebound in the third quarter.
The trillions of government support were bridge financing, just to keep the lights on until the inevitable joyous 
explosion of pent-up demand.
V for victory! But it became clear this week during a series of corporate announcements that it was V for vain 
hopes.
“If we had to make a bet today, we would say that it’s not going to be a V-shaped recovery, and it’s probably not 
going to be U or an L, but it’s going to be some other kind of shape,” said Carlos Rodriguez, amateur geometrist 
and chief executive of payroll processor ADP. Perhaps a “Nike swoosh”, he suggested.
In a V-shaped world, holidaymakers would emerge blinking from lockdowns and jet off to the beaches. But 
Norwegian Air Shuttle  warned this week it expected to stay in “hibernation” for the next 12 months and would only 
resume normal operations in 2022. British Airways then announced 12,000 redundancies and said it would “take 
several years” to return to last year’s passenger levels. Having maintained             his optimism as recently as last 
week, Michael O’Leary of Ryanair             on Friday forecast last year’s level of demand would not return until the 
summer of 2022.
The week business waved goodbye to the V-shape recovery
As Southwest Airlines chief Gary Kelly put it: “If it’s a V-shape recovery, well, we’ll all high-five each other and we’ll 
go buy some more airplanes. But I don’t think that’s the most likely outcome right now.”
This souring of the corporate mood has been accompanied, bizarrely, by a mini-boom in stocks. After surging prices 
in April — the biggest rise on the S&P 500 since 1987 — we are already well along the uphill slope of the V. 
Investors are determined to follow the outliers and the miracle merchants.
Gilead Sciences, a California-based biotech company, has become the bellwether stock for the entire market. 
Promising trial data on using Gilead’s  remdesivir antiviral to treat Covid-19 sends the whole market higher; 
negative data is quickly shrugged off. Even if the treatment works, though, it is no wonder drug; in the best case, it 
could shorten hospital stays. Nonetheless, Gilead shares are up more than a quarter this year.
The real rocket boosters come from the tech sector. Of course there is Zoom, the now ubiquitous video calling 
service, but the market cap heavyweights such as Alphabet, Apple and Microsoft are lifting the entire S&P 500. As 
we all stay at home on video calls and consume social media ad content on our iPhones, that sounds reasonable. 
But a few months from now, who will be employing these home workers, paying for their smartphones and 
advertising to them?
Not just airlines, but many other industries are stricken. Restaurants are warning they cannot survive lockdowns for 
much longer — but it is also hard to imagine packed dining rooms when they do reopen. McDonald’s acknowledged 
as much this week, with chief executive Christopher Kempczinski noting that “we’re not seeing a V-shaped recovery 
in China”. However, most McDonald’s in the country do not have a drive-through facility. In the US, 95 per cent do, 
dodging the problems of social distancing. In Europe, where McDonald’s is slowly reopening, Big Mac maniacs 
endured a three-hour wait in France and a two-mile queue in Austria. A lot rests on such nuggets of optimism.
Load-Date: May 1, 2020
End of Document
Rolls-Royce to cut up to 8,000 jobs as aviation crisis bites
Rolls-Royce to cut up to 8,000 jobs as aviation crisis bites
 
FT.com
May 1, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 644 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger, International Business Editor
Body
Rolls-Royce is preparing to cut up to 8,000 jobs, the biggest single reduction in more than 30 years, after aircraft 
makers  Airbus and             Boeing slashed production to cope with plunging demand from airlines struggling to 
survive a collapse in global air travel.
Senior executives of the UK aero-engine maker have begun work on a restructuring plan that would shrink the 
52,000-strong workforce by up to 15 per cent, according to several people inside the company. 
It follows  Ryanair’s announcement on Friday that it is preparing to cut 3,000 jobs, or 15 per cent of its 19,000 
workforce, and IAG’s plan to slash 12,000 staff at             British Airways, or almost 30 per cent of the 42,000 
employed. 
An announcement on a final figure is not expected before the end of May, when Rolls-Royce has said it will update 
employees. Discussions have just begun with unions, the sources said, and measures could still be found to 
mitigate the final number. However, the scale is still likely to be larger than after 9/11 when the group cut 5,000 
jobs, two people said. 
News of the planned job losses, which are expected to hit the UK civil business hardest, will be a blow to the 
government that had hoped to preserve employment by offering wage support programmes. 
However, these only last until June and the global aerospace industry is now bracing for a sharp and protracted fall 
in demand after more than a decade of booming orders. 
Rolls-Royce to cut up to 8,000 jobs as aviation crisis bites
Government restrictions on travel in the battle against the coronavirus pandemic have brought global aviation to a 
virtual standstill and Airbus and Boeing have both said it will take several years to recover to 2019 levels. The 
world’s two biggest aircraft makers in recent weeks have slashed production by 35 per cent and 50 per cent, 
respectively. 
Rolls-Royce, focused on the long-haul segment of aviation that is expected to take the longest to recover, has also 
had to respond to the collapse in demand, said two people with knowledge of the situation.
Stephen Daintith, finance director, told employees this week that the group expected its civil aerospace business to 
be a third smaller as a result of the crisis and that job losses could be expected. 
Last month, Rolls-Royce suspended its dividend for the first time in more than 30 years, cut back on capital 
expenditure and ditched its target to achieve £1bn in free cash flow by the end of this year. The group is also 
considering cutting research and development investment, and slowing its next-generation engine programme, 
UltraFan.
“The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic is unprecedented,” the company said. “We have taken swift action to 
increase our liquidity, dramatically reduce our spending in 2020, and strengthen our resilience in these 
exceptionally challenging times. But we will need to take further action.”
The vast majority of the job cuts are expected to hit the civil aerospace business, which employs 23,000 people 
worldwide and accounts for roughly half the group’s 2019 revenue of £15.4bn. 
The UK’s 16,000 civil workforce is expected to bear the brunt of the cuts and, in particular, Derby, historic home of 
the 116-year-old company. About a quarter of the UK civil workforce has already been furloughed. Job losses are 
also expected in the civil operations in Singapore and Germany, as well as central and support functions.
This will be the latest in a series of restructurings and job loss programmes to have hit Rolls-Royce’s workforce 
since a string of profit warnings starting in 2013. This year was supposed to have drawn to a close a two-year plan 
to cut 4,600 support jobs. 
In the past, job cuts have focused on managers, support staff and engineering staff. This time however, the cuts will 
affect the factory floor. “We have got to the point where this has to be done for the viability of the company,” said 
one person close to the subject.
Load-Date: May 3, 2020
End of Document
Wizz Air chief bullish over recovery in air travel
Wizz Air chief bullish over recovery in air travel
 
FT.com
April 30, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 567 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
The chief executive of Wizz Air has outlined a bullish outlook for recovery in air travel as the carrier this week 
prepares to become the first big European airline to restore passenger flights. 
József Váradi said the Hungarian low-cost carrier will start services from London Luton airport to 15 destinations, 
including Tenerife and Lisbon, from Friday with plans to fly all its planes by the end of the year.  
The largest low-cost airline serving central and eastern Europe aims to run at about 10 per cent of capacity in May 
before ramping up to about 70 per cent of its flights in July and August, subject to an easing of travel restrictions. 
The move to resume some flights comes in spite of bans still in place for non-essential air travel in many 
countries. But in an interview with the FT, Mr Váradi said he is confident countries and governments will start easing 
travel restrictions over the course of May and early June. 
“At this point in time the objective [for us] is to put infrastructure back in the air, to have a schedule that is 
operational so that we are able to start stimulating the market [with low fares],” he said. 
His confident outlook echoed budget rival Ryanair, whose chief executive Michael O’Leary last week  laid out plans 
for the airline to resume 80 per cent of flights by September, provided that flying in Europe could restart from early 
July. 
However, both Wizz Air and Ryanair’s views are in stark contrast to many others in the aviation industry who are 
predicting it could take two to three years before passenger demand returns to 2019 levels. 
Wizz Air chief bullish over recovery in air travel
British Airways on Tuesday announced plans to cut  almost 30 per cent of its 42,000 staff after its parent company 
IAG warned it could take several years to return to normal. 
Meanwhile, Norwegian Air Shuttle this week said the  bulk of its fleet was likely to remain grounded for the next 12 
months, with a full recovery unlikely until 2022. 
Mr Váradi said the carrier would be introducing enhanced health measures to ensure it can offer “perfectly safe 
conditions” for travel. This includes staff and passengers wearing masks, hand sanitisers and spacing passengers 
out across the aircraft in the initial months of flying when load factors are expected to be low. 
He expected demand to rise once travellers became used to the new safety protocols and said Wizz Air is planning 
to offer “very low fares” to stimulate the market. 
“Whatever crisis we look back on in history, one conclusion you can certainly make is peoples’ memories tend to be 
very short. While today looks like a huge concern, a life changing moment, in a year or two nobody remembers,” 
said Mr Váradi. 
He said Wizz Air would be looking for new market opportunities as part of its return to flying. While it planned to 
deploy about 70 per cent to 75 per cent of its fleet for its original schedule, he said the remainder would be used to 
fly to new locations that are exited by other rival carriers. 
“We pretty much expect the airline to fly its full scope by the end of the year but not exactly the same way we’d 
intended prior to the coronavirus [pandemic]. We’re not expecting every single airline to return to operation and 
even those that return, we will see what capacity they are able to put back,” he said. 
Letter in response to this article:
 Wizz Air chief misreads the import of the crisis / From Clive Jackson, Founder, Victor, London SW6, UK
Load-Date: May 6, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair will not return to flying if middle seats must be empty, says chief
Ryanair will not return to flying if middle seats must be empty, says chief
 
FT.com
April 22, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 552 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary warned the low-cost airline would not return to flying if governments insist 
planes leave their middle seats empty when travel restrictions are lifted following the coronavirus pandemic.
The outspoken executive gave a bullish outlook for a  recovery in air travel, laying out plans for the airline to resume 
80 per cent of flights by September provided that flying in Europe could restart from early July.  
Mr O’Leary said Ryanair expected to run about 40 per cent of its flights if travel resumed in July, with these planes 
50 to 60 per cent full. It would then increase capacity to 60 per cent in August and 80 per cent the following month, 
before reducing the number of flights back down to 60 per cent for its less busy winter season.
But in an interview with the Financial Times, Mr O’Leary said its plans would be thwarted if there were “some 
entirely ineffective social distancing measures like having middle seats empty because if middle seats are empty 
we’re not returning to flying at all”. 
He said Ryanair had already advised the Irish government that if it planned to impose such a rule then “either the 
government pays for the middle seat or we won’t fly”. 
“We can’t make money on 66 per cent load factors. Even if you do that, the middle seat doesn’t deliver any social 
distancing, so it’s kind of an idiotic idea that doesn’t achieve anything anyway,” he said. 
Ryanair will not return to flying if middle seats must be empty, says chief
Iata, the global airline association, has said it is preparing for potential government measures that may enforce 
social distancing on flights. Several airlines, including Emirates and Delta Air Lines, this week said they would be 
blocking out the middle seats of flights.
 Last week easyJet said it expected passengers would want to sit apart and that this would be possible to do on a 
short-term basis given that demand was not expected to return to previous levels immediately. 
But Mr O’Leary said he believed Europe should follow Asia and introduce more sensible and easy to implement 
measures, such as mandatory mask wearing on transport and temperature checks at train stations and airports. 
Ryanair expected a “relatively quick recovery” in air traffic on the back of “massive price stimulation” if restrictions 
were eased for July. 
Mr O’Leary said he was hopeful that, subject to an effective coronavirus vaccine, there would be a return to more 
normal traffic levels in the summer of 2021, driven by the collapse of rival airlines. 
“I think Ryanair in summer 2021 will be carrying our 2019 traffic plus growth, but the airports will still have less 
traffic than they had before,” he added. 
His outlook starkly contrasts with the wider market. Some aviation analysts have forecast it could take up to three 
years for the industry to return to the traffic levels of 2019. Lufthansa has warned it expected any recovery in global 
air travel to take several years.
Mr O’Leary said he would continue to take a  50 per cent pay cut beyond April and May if the shutdown lasted 
longer. “My pay cut will run on until the last of [Ryanair] people are off the payroll support schemes,” he said. 
However, he warned that job losses were likely going into the winter period. “The challenge for us and other airlines 
will be to minimise those job losses to 10 to 15 per cent of pilots and cabin crew,” he said.
Load-Date: April 22, 2020
End of Document
Wizz Air cuts fifth of workforce and reduces wages
Wizz Air cuts fifth of workforce and reduces wages
 
FT.com
April 14, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 477 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger, International Business Editor
Body
Wizz Air, the Hungarian low-cost airline, is cutting close to a fifth of its workforce and reducing the wages of top 
management, pilots and crew to cope with the collapse in European air travel imposed by measures to contain the 
spread of the  coronavirus.
The carrier also warned that profits for the financial year that ended in March would be lower than expected due to 
an exceptional €70m-€80m hit on fuel hedges following the sharp fall in the oil price this year.  
About 1,000 employees would be made redundant, with further measures to furlough staff expected in the short-
term due to travel restrictions, the group said on Tuesday. Chief executive József Váradi, the board and senior 
management will take a 22 per cent pay cut, while the salaries of pilots, cabin crew and office staff will be reduced 
by 14 per cent.
The group is the latest carrier to announce  cash-saving measures as carriers around the world seek to bolster 
liquidity in the face of an unprecedented collapse in revenues.  
Iata, the aviation trade body, said it estimated that about a third of the global industry’s 2.7m jobs had already been 
cut or suspended.
Lufthansa, Europe’s second-biggest airline, warned last week it expected any recovery in global air travel to take 
several years as it cut back its fleet and axed its low-cost brand, Germanwings.
Wizz Air cuts fifth of workforce and reduces wages
Credit rating agency Fitch last week downgraded both Ryanair and Wizz Air, citing uncertainty over the timing and 
conditions of recovery. Fitch said it did not expect Wizz Air's revenue to recover to previous levels before the 2022-
23 fiscal year.
About 90 per cent of European flights were grounded in the first week of April, according to Iata, with those aircraft 
still flying largely being used for cargo or repatriation of citizens.
Wizz Air said it was flying just 3 per cent of its capacity. But the carrier stressed it had €1.5bn in cash at the end of 
March 2020, giving it strong liquidity to navigate the crisis.
Nevertheless, Mr Varadi said the group was reviewing the competitiveness and allocation of assets. Wizz Air has 
more than 200 aircraft on order, most of which are the Airbus A321 single aisle. Only recently the Wizz Air boss 
insisted he intended to take delivery of all his aircraft. However, it is possible the company could seek to defer some 
orders. 
Wizz now plans to hand back 32 rented aircraft at the end their leases, many of which had been expected to remain 
in the fleet until the new A321s arrived. Mr Varadi said that “as markets normalise” the plan to increase capacity by 
an average of 15 per cent a year would be maintained.
 The carrier is also pressing ahead with plans to launch a Gulf low-cost operation Wizz Air Abu Dhabi in the second 
half of this year.
Tell us about what’s happening around you. Are jobs being cut? Are workers being put at risk? Send your 
tips and stories to coronavirus@ft.com
Load-Date: April 15, 2020
End of Document
CEOs must turn their coronavirus-prompted pay gestures into real reform
CEOs must turn their coronavirus-prompted pay gestures into real reform
 
FT.com
April 6, 2020 Monday 3:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 825 words
Byline: Andrew Hill
Body
For decades, chief executives seemed to be paid according to two rules of thumb. First, they deserved to earn more 
than the average business leader. Second, their pay should never go down. Warren Buffett nicknamed the pay 
consultants who lubricated the remuneration merry-go-round “Ratchet, Ratchet & Bingo”.
Covid-19 could reset these rules permanently. As chief executives take tough decisions about the salaries, jobs, 
and future of their staff, many are recognising that at the very least they too should be seen to suffer. They are still 
benchmarking against their peers. But now decisions are based as much on  how much they should give back. as 
on how much they should take out. 
Ana Botín, chairman of Santander, agreed to contribute half her pay to a medical equipment fund created by the 
Spanish bank.  Michael O’Leary, abrasive chief executive of Ryanair, joined the airline’s staff in taking a 50 per cent 
cut for April and May.
They are outliers. Many chief executives are sacrificing less. They are part of a growing “20 Per Cent Club” of 
bosses reducing their salaries by a fifth, while staff contemplate weeks in government-backed furlough schemes.
There are other differences. Lop 20 per cent off the median FTSE 100 chief’s salary of £876,000 and he or she still 
takes home £60,000 a month before tax. Chief executives’ pay-cut pledges are typically time-limited and their 
bonus and long-term incentive plans are mostly intact.
CEOs must turn their coronavirus-prompted pay gestures into real reform
By contrast, UK furlough payments are capped at £2,500 a month. Workers are crashing down through the layers of 
Abraham Maslow’s hierarchy of needs towards the lowest level where they have to focus on health and shelter. The 
UK charity Citizens Advice  reported last month that in the first fortnight of the crisis, it fielded many requests for 
information about flight and hotel cancellations. Then came a wave of concern about sick pay, followed by requests 
for advice about redundancy and state benefits, and finally about how to cope with spiralling debt. 
Another psychologist, Frederick Herzberg, observed that staff were more likely to grumble when they lost “hygiene 
factors” such as a decent wage and job security, rather than applaud when they were present. This crisis is a large-
scale test of that hypothesis, at a time when, for many workers, good hygiene is more than a mere metaphor.
It is good to see chief executives acknowledge the plight of staff. It makes a change from hearing them bracket 
themselves with some professional footballers, who have been slow to waive part of their galactically large wages, 
even as their clubs are tossing the minions who clean the stars’ boots or cook their meals  into furlough.
Xavier Baeten, who studies executive pay at Belgium’s Vlerick Business School, says the trend differentiates this 
crisis from the financial meltdown of 2008, when only a minority of companies cut chief executives’ pay. Regulators 
have already stepped in to warn banks to  “exercise extreme moderation” on bonuses. But Prof Baeten notes that 
even companies that stand to do well during the pandemic have “a bad feeling” about being seen to reward 
executives too lavishly.
For now, though, I have a sense boards are doing the minimum necessary to shield themselves from reputational 
damage. The real proof of chief executives’ appetite for sacrifice and solidarity will come as they emerge from the 
acute phase of the pandemic and consider whether to address the chronic problems with executive pay.
Some will argue they should be rewarded if they successfully lead their companies through the biggest threat to 
their survival since the second world war. Others will point out that in the same way that lavish remuneration in 
good times was a mere fraction of the value they could create for shareholders, cutting pay in bad times would not 
be enough to stave off calamity. There are limits, though.
Editor’s note
The Financial Times is making key coronavirus coverage free to read to help everyone stay informed. 
 Find the latest here.
Remuneration committees will have an important role in curbing unwarranted or unintended windfalls. Pay 
structures at most companies need simplifying. In a crisis, nobody really cares what the intricate inner workings of a 
watch look like as long as it tells the correct time. Incentives themselves need readjusting. Alex Edmans, an 
advocate for paying executives in restricted stock, argues in his new book  Grow The Pie that reformers should aim 
to encourage leaders “to create long-run value for society, rather than reduce the level of pay”. 
In the UK at least, chief executives’ pay  had already plateaued before this crisis. But afterwards, remuneration will 
again be a lightning rod for public and political discontent. My hunch, and hope, is that this time chief executives will 
recognise how fragile trust in business is. By converting early goodwill gestures into permanent pay reform, they 
can work to shore it up. 
Twitter:  @andrewtghill
Load-Date: April 19, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair hit by wrong way bet on fuel
Ryanair hit by wrong way bet on fuel
 
FT.com
April 3, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 430 words
Byline: Tanya Powley
Body
Ryanair will take an estimated €300m hit this year because of a wrong way bet on fuel prices, which have 
plummeted over the past month because of the coronavirus pandemic.  
The low-cost airline typically hedges a large proportion of its requirements for jet fuel in advance as an insurance 
policy to protect itself from rising oil prices. However, it has been caught out by the  recent plunge in the oil market 
as it still has to pay the higher hedge price. 
Ryanair on Friday warned it expected to “record ineffectiveness” on its full year 2021 fuel hedges as an exceptional 
item of about €300m in this year’s results, ending March 31 2020.
Daniel Roeska, aviation analyst at Bernstein, noted that high levels of hedging are “working against the company”. 
He said it will also hit cash in the early part of Ryanair’s 2021 financial year as spot prices below hedged prices 
mean payments to counterparties. 
It comes as the Irish airline said it expected pre-exceptional profit for the year to be at the bottom end of its previous 
estimate, between €950m and €1bn, because of the deepening impact of the coronavirus pandemic. 
Ryanair noted that traffic in March fell 48 per cent from 10.9m passengers in 2019 to 5.7m in 2020. This meant full-
year traffic will rise just 4 per cent to 149m, down from the forecasted 154m figure the airline said it was on track to 
achieve even as late as early March.
Ryanair hit by wrong way bet on fuel
The global airline industry is battling one of its biggest crises in decades, which has led to fleets being grounded 
around the world and carriers turning to governments for state support. 
Iata, the industry trade body, this week warned that airlines were facing an “enormous cash problem”, with airlines 
expected to burn through $61bn of their cash reserves during the second quarter of this year. 
British Airways on Thursday announced plans to  furlough more than 30,000 of its 40,000 staff, while its parent 
company IAG said it would cancel its final dividend as it took moves to bolster its cash. 
Ryanair is currently only operating less than 20 daily flights, down 99 per cent from its normal schedule of more 
than 2,500 flights. 
But Mr Roeska noted that Ryanair has one of the strongest balance sheets and “highest levels of liquidity in the 
industry”. 
“In our view the company could last possibly until around the end of the calendar year on current resources,” he 
added. 
Ryanair on Friday reiterated its strong balance sheet, pointing to year-end cash equivalents of €3.8bn and said 77 
per cent of its aircraft fleet, equivalent to 327 planes, were unencumbered and debt free. 
Load-Date: April 3, 2020
End of Document
Banks must keep bonuses locked down  
Banks must keep bonuses locked down  
 
FT.com
April 1, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 832 words
Byline: Kate Burgess
Body
The governor of the Bank of England did more than wiggle his eyebrows at lenders this week. He, or rather his 
bank regulation deputy, told British banks to hold off paying dividends and cash bonuses to top staff over the next 
few months. 
The banks are complying, at least with the request to cut dividends. They are less forthcoming about how they will 
adjust bonuses. Contrast that with Taylor Wimpey, which stated on Wednesday that there would be no cash 
bonuses for executives in 2020.
Well over a dozen publicly listed companies, from Ryanair to Capita, have broadcast cuts to executive pay and 
rations this year. 
Lender Standard Chartered has murmured about updating the market later on remuneration. Its financial sector 
peers are keeping schtum.
However, most UK banks whose year ended in December notified staff of their bonuses in February. Almost all 
shelled out what cash they were due to pay — excluding the high proportion of deferred bonuses — in March. The 
next cash payments are due in 11 months. 
Who knows what profits will look like then? A year is a long time in a coronavirus world.
Banks must keep bonuses locked down  
Traders have had a good first quarter. FX teams have been working their white socks off trading the volatility in 
markets. On the other hand, retail banking is suffering and M&A bankers are twiddling their thumbs. That may 
change in the second half as companies restructure and refinance.
Since the banking crisis of 2008, regulators in Europe and the US have persistently called for banks to trim and 
defer variable awards or pay them in shares. Last week Sheila Bair, former chair of the US Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, opined in the FT that banks should snip discretionary bonuses, as well as dividends and 
buybacks, to free up the trillions of additional lending capacity and absorb the huge losses on bad debts that are 
heading the industry’s way. 
Are regulators fighting the last war? Banks are far stronger now than they were in 2008 when the taxpayer bailed 
them out. They have been shoring up their capital buffers for nearly a decade. 
Nonetheless, remuneration is a lagoon-sized cost for banks. Variable pay accounted for nearly half of Barclays’ 
total remuneration costs of £1.3bn in 2019. About half of the bill was in cash. It would be an error for banks to 
jeopardise the strength by repeating the mistakes of the noughties. 
This year will go down as the year of widespread corporate failure and the biggest central bank-taxpayer 
intervention in the economy since the second world war. 
Under this new compact, banks have a societal role as agents of the government, transmitting state aid to the small 
enterprises and individuals as unemployment rises and recession looms. They must not forfeit the high ground by 
raining rewards down on staff after other stakeholders have suffered so much.
Star-struck Invesco
Even before the coronavirus crisis put thousands out of work, jobs for life were reckoned to be a thing of the past. 
Which makes it difficult to explain how Mark Barnett, Invesco UK equities fund manager and acolyte of failed fund 
manager Neil Woodford, manages to keep his. 
To be fair to Invesco, he’s only got half of one now. The US fund house promoted Martin Walker to co-head its UK 
equity business alongside Mr Barnett in November. 
And Mr Barnett has less money to manage. Though that’s not really Invesco’s doing. Outflows and then investment 
performance have ensured his investment pot has been shrinking. The Invesco UK High Income Fund stood at 
£13.1bn in 2013, the year before Mr Barnett took it over. About £3.4bn is left in the fund now. His Income fund is 
down to little more than £1.5bn. Soon he’ll shed his portfolio of unquoted investments, which was marked down by 
60 per cent this week. 
But Invesco’s loyalty to Mr Barnett shows an ill-judged fascination with stars. That obsession has cost the asset 
manager twice over. Once when Mr Woodford took Invesco clients, as he flounced out to set up his own folly of a 
fund house. And again because Invesco replaced him with his follower — Mr Barnett — who continued to follow the 
same Woodford strategy. He copied some of Mr Woodford’s biggest bets and was co-investor with him in countless, 
tiny biotech hopefuls. 
UK shares have fallen so far and so fast Mr Barnett is doubtless right that there is value to be had and money to be 
made when the rebound arrives — eventually. Whether he does better than the market is open to question. 
Fund houses don’t like sacking big names. They worry investors will flee, and downgrades follow. Fellow portfolio 
managers get twitchy. But Morningstar has already cut its ratings on Mr Barnett’s High Income and Income funds 
last year. The investors are gone. And acting managers are becoming as popular as winkle-pickers. 
Now, in the depths of the downturn, is not the time to change course. But when normality returns, Invesco really 
must reconsider its star-struck strategy. Jobs for life are so last century.
kate.burgess@ft.com
Banks must keep bonuses locked down  
Invesco: cat.rutterpooley@ft.com
Load-Date: April 1, 2020
End of Document
Executive pay: the cost of solidarity
Executive pay: the cost of solidarity
 
FT.com
March 31, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 452 words
Body
Bosses who claim “we’re all in this together” before taking a pay rise are asking for trouble. Coronavirus is 
multiplying job losses and diminishing tolerance towards corporate fat cattery. In the eurozone, big bonuses for 
bankers will invite retribution from the  European Central Bank. In the UK, pandemic profiteers face an even more 
terrifying nemesis: tabloid media.
How should boards respond? Lex has extracted some ground rules on pay from recent company announcements. 
These should help businesses avoid red top denunciations, Twitter storms and other modern forms of mob 
violence.
So far, most companies are limiting solidarity pay cuts to the crisis period. That is common sense. Reductions can 
always be rolled forward during a recession.
The size of the discount varies widely. The rationale for taking a cut increases in proportion to the pain suffered by 
the workforce or the company’s dependence on state support. One-tenth looks like the minimum. There is no 
ceiling: some bosses have waived pay entirely. The unreliable average hovers somewhere in between.  
 In America, Macy’s boss Jeff Gennette will receive no pay from April until the crisis ends. The retailer announced 
this week it will  furlough the majority of its 125,000 workers.             Michael O’Leary at Irish low-cost carrier 
Ryanair cut his pay in half, the same as his staff. At the other end of the spectrum, executives at Thai Airways — 
lossmaking since 2016 — have offered “voluntary” reductions of 15 -25 per cent.  
 Salary cuts of about 50 per cent, as also modelled by bosses at Yum Brands and Disney of the US, have publicity 
value. But PRs should brace for snarky questions on incentive schemes and other trimmings. In the US, salary is 
Executive pay: the cost of solidarity
only about a tenth of total remuneration. The average pay package of an S&P500 CEO has risen by a half to just 
over $12m since the financial crisis, largely thanks to extras.
The ravages of coronavirus have come at a tricky time for UK-listed groups. A new three-year cycle for binding 
shareholder votes on CEO pay packages kicks off in April and May. Canvassing investors’ opinions — typically the 
job of non-executive directors — is tough during a lockdown. 
Many chief executives are absorbing extraordinary stresses while working long hours in businesses flirting with 
collapse. There may be no “good time” to tell them they should receive less for doing more. Even so, non-execs, 
natural proponents of collective responsibility, must have that conversation swiftly.
Lex coronavirus advice exchange. We invite Lex readers to swap advice, queries and opinions on the financial 
and personal impact of the epidemic. Please send us your thoughts via . We are publishing  curated highlights.
Load-Date: March 31, 2020
End of Document
Virgin Atlantic set to ask for state aid
Virgin Atlantic set to ask for state aid
 
FT.com
March 27, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1022 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger, Andrew Edgecliffe-Johnson and Jim Pickard
Body
Virgin Atlantic will in the coming days ask the UK for a package of commercial loans and guarantees worth 
hundreds of millions of pounds, as the carrier battles the aviation industry’s  worst crisis in decades, according to 
people familiar with the matter.
The airline would be among the first in the UK to do so since the government declared this week it would only act as 
a “last resort” for the country’s struggling industry as it deals with the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic. 
Other carriers, including easyJet, regional airlines such as Loganair and Eastern Airways, and the troubled airline 
Norwegian Air Shuttle which has some 350 UK employees, are also considering following Virgin’s lead.
Earlier this week Rishi Sunak, the chancellor, said the government would  not offer an industry-wide bailout to 
airlines and airports plunged into crisis as countries close their borders to international travel. Instead the 
government expects the industry to explore options to bolster cash before asking for state aid, which would be 
considered on a case-by-case basis. 
A government official said there could be political hurdles to helping Virgin and easyJet, but did not rule out state 
aid for these companies. However, the regional airlines were expected to be first in line for help, should they 
request it, given the government’s focus on promoting economic activity in the regions beyond London.
Richard Branson, the billionaire founder of the carrier, has already offered to inject $250m into the Virgin Group — a 
large portion of which will go to the airline. 
Virgin Atlantic set to ask for state aid
Virgin Atlantic declined to comment. The Department for Transport declined to comment.
The UK, with the world’s third-largest aviation network, has taken a tougher approach than other countries such as 
France and Germany, whose governments moved quickly to offer national carriers support. 
The problem for the UK government, say analysts, is the varied nature of Britain’s aviation sector compared with 
other countries.
“If you look at UK airlines and airports they’re not all UK-controlled,” says Andrew Lobbenberg, aviation analyst at 
HSBC. “British Airways is owned by International Airlines Group, which is a Spanish company, and the largest 
single shareholder is Qatar Airways. Virgin is 49 per cent owned by Delta Air Lines of the US.” Wizz UK, Norwegian 
UK and Ryanair UK are subsidiaries of parent airlines from Hungary, Norway and Ireland, respectively. 
The deployment of taxpayers’ money into aviation becomes complex “when you recognise the non-UK 
shareholders behind the businesses”, said Mr Lobbenberg.
UK-based airlines are now reviewing networks and fleet strategies to conserve cash. Like their peers abroad they 
have cut wage costs by reducing working hours or offering unpaid leave. 
All airlines are seeking holidays from aircraft lease payments. These can stretch to $1m a month for the bigger 
aircraft such as Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner, or a third that for the popular single aisles such as the Airbus A320neo. 
Finally, they will try to raise cash by selling and leasing back their aircraft. “Every airline is coming to us,” said one 
leading lessor. 
“We have seen a significant increase in airlines discussing the refinancing of their fleets,” said one of London’s top 
aviation finance bankers.
This will give lessors a say in who survives and who doesn’t, say industry executives. “I would expect lessors to 
start picking winners,” Willie Walsh, chief executive of British Airways parent International Airlines Group, said 
earlier this month.
Leasing companies will choose to do deals with the strongest. 
For example, two-thirds of Ryanair’s 455 aircraft are owned outright. Stephen Furlong, aviation analyst with Davy, 
estimates that with net cash of €4bn at the end of February, the carrier has some 18 months of liquidity even if none 
of its aircraft fly for a year. That does not include the near €7bn that could be raised through sale and leasebacks of 
aircraft. 
EasyJet, which owns 70 per cent of its 331 aircraft and had cash and credit facilities of just over £2bn at the end of 
February, could last for 10 months, Mr Furlong estimates. Mortgaging aircraft could extend that timeline 
significantly. 
IAG boasts more than £9bn in cash and credit lines. Mr Walsh has said publicly that he does not intend to ask the 
state for aid beyond the measures offered to the wider business sector last week, such as wage support.
Virgin, which has reported losses for the last two years, specialises in the long-haul sector that is expected to be the 
hardest hit. Virgin generated just £83m in net cash from operations, according to its latest available report and 
accounts. Total cash at the end of 2018 was £489m, although net debt stood at £1.5bn. It already leases three-
quarters of its 46 aircraft, so leeway for refinancing will be limited. 
The carrier must show the government that it is doing what is necessary to qualify for state aid, people familiar with 
the matter said.
“They have asked people to take unpaid leave for eight weeks, grounded certain routes, and slimmed the cost 
bases,” said one. 
Virgin Atlantic set to ask for state aid
But if Virgin is given help, industry experts say Mr Walsh may be stung into demanding a share of state largesse for 
British Airways if the crisis continues beyond the summer. EasyJet too will be nervous about the aid being given to 
its European rivals and may ask to level the playing field. “Every airline will try to get support eventually and you 
could argue they have some justification,” said John Strickland, aviation consultant. 
Nevertheless, there is no such thing as free money. Under proposals drawn up by the government, taxpayers could 
end up with equity stakes in the airlines in return for their support.
Mark Manduca, analyst with Citigroup, said the state bailouts enacted during the financial crisis should give rise to 
caution this time round. “Government aid will be mired in punitive covenants . . . that potentially could last years,” he 
said. “The chains include high interest rate debt, subordinating current senior bondholders, and future restrictions 
on pay for executives and on dividends. That is not really aid at all.”
Load-Date: March 31, 2020
End of Document
4,000 businesses urged to suspend executive bonuses
4,000 businesses urged to suspend executive bonuses
 
FT.com
March 25, 2020 Wednesday 6:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 456 words
Byline: Attracta Mooney 
Body
Businesses have been urged to suspend  bonuses for executives in a move aimed at ensuring company bosses 
share the financial hit from the coronavirus outbreak with staff and shareholders. 
 Pensions Investment Research Consultants (Pirc), an adviser to shareholders including the UK’s local authority 
pension funds, which oversee £300bn in assets, has written to 4,000 listed companies around the world calling on 
them to take a tough approach to pay in response to the extreme disruption caused by the             Covid-19 
pandemic. 
In the letter, which was sent last week, Pirc called on companies to suspend all payments to executives, other than 
basic salary from April 1, until the end of the financial year. 
The letter came as companies around the globe have been forced to halt trading and lay off staff in response to 
strict measures from countries grappling to stop the spread of coronavirus. 
Alan MacDougall, managing director of Pirc, wrote that the business community must “demonstrate its recognition 
of the challenges many employees face”. 
“If it is deemed appropriate to cut dividends and reduce the workforce due to these events, which in many cases is 
already happening, then it is difficult to understand how executive bonuses and [long-term incentive plan] awards – 
essentially based on last financial year — can be justified,” he said. 
4,000 businesses urged to suspend executive bonuses
“Suspending variable pay at board level will send a positive signal to your company and your workforce about the 
need for shared sacrifice in these difficult times.” 
Several company bosses are already facing pay cuts in 2020, including Michael O’Leary, chief executive of 
Ryanair, the airline. He told the Financial Times that he and the rest of the airline’s staff would take a 50 per cent 
pay cut.
Willie Walsh, the chief executive of BA’s owner IAG, has accepted a 20 per cent pay reduction for the remainder of 
his contract after delaying his retirement. 
Board directors at Kier, the construction company, will also see their pay reduced by 20 per cent between April and 
June. 
The focus on pay comes as hundreds of companies in the UK are due to put their pay policies for the next three 
years to a binding vote as part of a triennial process. 
In its letter, Pirc said: “Few if any executive pay schemes are likely to be appropriate for a company in current 
market circumstances and the health emergency.” 
Richard Buxton, head of UK equities at Merian Global Investors, said companies would need to take a pragmatic 
approach to pay in the months ahead. 
“A sensible board would be asking management [of companies under pressure] to make some sacrificial gestures 
in terms of pay. We have seen some [examples of this] and expect we will see more.”
Additional reporting by Neil Hume
Load-Date: March 26, 2020
End of Document
Covid-19: what it means for your property deal
Covid-19: what it means for your property deal
 
FT.com
March 25, 2020 Wednesday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1935 words
Byline: Liz Rowlinson     
Body
Dubliners Chris and Patricia O’Hara have had plenty of time to contemplate the “mess” of their Italian retirement 
plans since Ireland’s general shutdown to halt the spread of coronavirus on March 12. 
So far, they have spent €42,000 on a rundown farmhouse in Puglia, southern Italy, which they hope will eventually 
be a yoga retreat and art school. Their offer of €190,000 was accepted in November and they have paid a 10 per 
cent deposit to the Milanese property owners.
“We are due to complete on July 1 but now we don’t know what will happen,” says Chris, an artist. 
“We don’t want to bother the elderly owners in Lombardy right now, but we are not sure whether we are going to be 
in a position to proceed. We’ve had to close our businesses in Ireland for now. We are also worried whether 
Ryanair will survive so that we won’t even be able to fly there [Brindisi] and whether Italian property prices will 
plummet.”
The O’Haras are far from alone in having committed to buying a property abroad and now being uncertain of their 
ability (or desire) to complete as scheduled in their contracts. The situation is changing daily in many areas, but 
agents, lawyers and notaries are finding new ways of working around an unprecedented situation.
So where do buyers stand?
I need to buy a home but can I view properties?
Covid-19: what it means for your property deal
In Spain, physical property viewings are not permitted until the current state of emergency ends. In France, the 
situation is similar until the 15-day lockdown finishes.
“However, we are still getting many enquires so we can do virtual tours or video viewings and talk through with 
clients on the phone,” says Joanna Leggett of Leggett Immobilier, an agency in France.
This is happening across markets that are not completely restricted, says Hugo Thistlethwayte, head of Savills. “We 
are still open for business in many areas, if working under strict conditions. Even physical viewings are happening 
— in parts of the Caribbean and Miami — if all parties are willing.” 
In Florida, none of the current restrictions are affecting a buyer’s ability to purchase a home — apart from flying out 
to see properties, of course — says Zoe Attwood of Homes of America Realty Group. 
Her company is conducting viewings with a British couple looking to buy a villa in Orlando, a search made urgent 
since their flight home to Manchester has been cancelled.
Purchases are still proceeding, she says, as the title company [that manages the conveyancing process in the US] 
will work with the buyer and either mail or email the documents that they need to sign to the buyer. British buyers 
can then sign the documents before a UK notary (assuming they can travel to see one).
If you are in the process of agreeing the sale of your home, use a flexible completion date, says Alex Radford, an 
English-born Marbella-based solicitor at My Lawyer in Spain. 
“There needs to be a clause inserted that states ‘completion will be by ‘x’ date or earlier by agreement or later if the 
parties or their legal representatives cannot attend completion due to Covid-19 crisis,’” he says. “At the moment we 
are suggesting a future completion date of at least two months.”
My sale has been agreed but I am not sure we will be able to proceed
Since sterling has plummeted and businesses have closed, many British buyers across Europe are re-evaluating 
purchases. But what about if deposits have already been paid?
Tim Hughes, a solicitor in Lyon, is working with British cash buyers who, since committing to buy a home, have lost 
money on the stock market that had been earmarked for the purchase.
They will now need to apply for a bank loan or find other sources of funding to complete, he says. But if they fail to 
do so and have to pull out, they will likely lose their deposit (5 per cent across France, 10 per cent in Paris), 
because they did not have the typical “safety-net” clause that allows buyers to pull out if they cannot secure a 
mortgage.
“Completion dates in France are a target, not a deadline, and there is no sanction [as there is in UK contracts] if the 
date is missed. But we are asking sellers to agree a significant extension to target dates,” he says. 
Fearing a collapse in the value of property, some sellers are agreeing to this (rather than pocket a forfeited deposit) 
because they prefer to keep the contract at the current sale price, he says.
For buyers in Italy such as the O’Haras, what chance of getting their deposit back? For purchasers who have paid 
their deposit (up to 20 per cent), there is a good case for it to be returned under force majeure (unforeseeable 
circumstances) if you signed before the national state of emergency was declared, says Gemma Bruce of agent 
Casa & Country.
Editor’s note
The Financial Times is making key coronavirus coverage free to read to help everyone stay informed. 
 Find the latest here.
Covid-19: what it means for your property deal
A Florence-based notary — who does not wish to be named — says that if buyers want to proceed but need the 
completion date to be extended, then a simple exchange of emails agreeing between buyers, sellers and notary will 
suffice. 
“If you decide not to proceed after having signed the preliminary contract, or wish to renegotiate the price, you 
would need to explain the reasons relating to force majeure,” he advises.
“Most lawyers believe that force majeure will stand up as a reason to walk away and have a deposit refunded.” 
However, it will be required to explain how Covid-19 has directly affected the property and sale. 
For example, if your bank has withdrawn your mortgage offer, or if you wish to reduce your offer price because 
income prospects have fallen away.
We are due to complete — but will conveyancing be possible?
How binding a completion date may be varies according to country. For many buyers of holiday properties or 
second homes, purchases are just postponed, says Edward de Mallet Morgan of Knight Frank. 
“While many viewings in Europe and the US are being put off due to travel bans, there is a little else that cannot be 
done electronically,” he says. His wealthy customers often give their family offices power of attorney (POA), so that 
a lawyer can sign on behalf of the buyer, and the buyer is rarely physically present.
“In some locations, such as Barbados, where we are currently working on a purchase, contracts can be scanned 
and emailed and digital signatures can be used,” he says.
In Spain, it is not quite so simple. Notaries’ offices are still open because they are a public service but only for 
urgent matters, says Alex Radford. “All completions are before a notary so we can exchange contracts for clients 
but we cannot complete due to the state of emergency.
House & Home Unlocked 
Welcome to a new newsletter for smart people interested in the property market and curious about design, 
architecture and interiors. Every Friday, in your inbox.
 Sign up here with one click
“Completions which we had planned for this month are being suspended so long as the force majeure exists, we 
will extend the deadline in a contract, and when the state of emergency ends we can use POA to complete the 
purchase.”
In France, despite the shutdown, purchases are still going through, with even new offers this week, says Leggett. 
Many notaries are working from home and for the first time accepting proof of ID that has not been certified by a 
notary in the UK — which is normally required — but by e-sign software.
“However, if the due-diligence checks cannot be carried out, the completion date will automatically be put back, and 
there is a clause in the compromis de vente (contract) that allows this,” she says.
In Italy, such e-sign technology cannot be used. For final contract signings to proceed, the hard copy of the POA 
has to be in the Italian notary’s hand, so if you are planning on setting up one of these, allow extra time for getting 
your POA authenticated and apostilled by a UK notary, who then has to courier it to Italy, says Caroline Edwards of 
Personal Puglia, the O’Haras’ estate agent.
I’m buying a new home off-plan. What if it is delayed?
Some mid-construction developments will be delayed due to the shutdown of building sites.
Covid-19: what it means for your property deal
Purchasers of new ski properties typically take possession of their homes at the start of the winter season, but will 
have to be prepared for delay until the spring, says Giles Gale of Alpine Property Finders. “In most developments 
there will be a force majeure clause that allows for a six-month delay.”
At the Algarve’s largest new residential resort, Ombria, development is proceeding despite the state of emergency 
declared last week, with buyers due to sign the deeds over the next few weeks able to do so without face-to-face 
contact.
They are not alone in reporting “record levels of inquiries” this week as many property hunters are cooped up at 
home browsing online — or, like the O’Haras, wondering about the fate of their investment. 
Should you complete early if you can?
Moving home is always stressful but moving during the coronavirus outbreak takes it to a whole new plane, writes 
Heather Farmbrough. I exchanged contracts a month ago on the sale of my flat in Fulham, west London. Luckily, 
neither of us is in a chain, which could make matters much more complicated, but the path ahead is still far from 
clear.
Last week, the estate agent selling my flat rang to ask whether I would consider bringing forward the completion 
date, to head off any potential problems caused by the virus. Absolutely not, advised my solicitor, pointing out that I 
need to allow plenty of time to ensure my property is vacant on completion. I just hope my buyers do not lose their 
jobs or mortgage offer in the meantime.
I am not the only person trying to move who is worried. According to the Law Society, members have been 
besieged by anxious buyers and sellers wanting advice on the best thing to do. The trouble is, not even the 
solicitors have all the answers. What happens if the seller has to go into isolation, for instance, or if the removal 
men become ill? Will the property need to be decontaminated if the seller contracts the virus? It is not even clear 
where people vacating a property can leave the keys, since estate agents have not been designated key workers 
by the UK government, so their doors should stay shut.
“Once contracts have been exchanged, no party can pull out without a financial penalty,” says Sarah Dwight, a 
conveyancing solicitor. “But this has thrown a real curve ball at us when it comes to completions.” 
Instead, she is advising clients to complete early if they can and emphasises the importance of common sense and 
pragmatism. “Agents, solicitors, clients — everyone just needs to talk, by phone, preferably,” she says. 
For people about to exchange contracts, Dwight recommends against adding clauses to work around the potential 
impact of coronavirus because it creates too many problems. 
If the government’s projections are accurate, the virus will be peaking just around my completion date in the middle 
of May. Andrew Boyd, from Doree Bonner International, suggests bringing forward my removal date and putting my 
belongings in storage, if need be. This sounds sensible to me — and helpful, since packing is one of the few tasks 
you can do while self-isolating.
Follow  @FTProperty on Twitter or             @ft_houseandhome on Instagram to find out about our latest stories 
first. Listen to our culture podcast,             Culture Call, where editors Gris and Lilah dig into the trends shaping life 
in the 2020s, interview the people breaking new ground and bring you behind the scenes of FT Life & Arts 
journalism. Subscribe on             Apple,             Spotify, or wherever you listen.
Load-Date: April 1, 2020
End of Document
Sunak is on the money in refusing airlines carte blanche
Sunak is on the money in refusing airlines carte blanche
 
FT.com
March 25, 2020 Wednesday 5:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 791 words
Byline: Kate Burgess and Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
Rishi Sunak has resisted the urge to extend his hand to airlines. Quite right. These are the same companies that 
squealed when the government toyed with bailing out Flybe in January. 
Politicians then made the right choice not to throw a lifeline to a business with too much debt, high costs and which 
was on the edge of collapse. 
IAG, easyJet, Ryanair et al are no Flybes. But the International Air Transport Association has declared that without 
state aid, Europe’s airlines could be bust by May. Nonetheless, Mr Sunak is right to insist that they first tap 
investors and banks for cash before running to him for help. 
Wizz Air and Ryanair don’t need emergency funding in any case, according to Mark Manduca at Citi. IAG and 
easyJet are strong enough to hold off for a while, too. Even with a three-month shutdown, net debt to ebitda might 
only rise to 1.2 times at easyJet and 2.6 times at IAG. 
Lufthansa and Air France-KLM are in a much worse state. Virgin Atlantic — owned by billionaire island owner 
Richard Branson and Delta Air Lines of the US — is noticeably more nervy. It made a plea for £7.5bn for the 
industry in emergency state support. 
But the government — which has already promised £330bn in loan guarantees, VAT deferrals and wage support — 
must not be seen to make a special case for airlines or to chuck money into the pockets of the tycoons, private 
equity consortiums and infrastructure funds that have mopped up British airports and airlines. 
Sunak is on the money in refusing airlines carte blanche
easyJet has just bunged £174m in dividends to its shareholders, including founder Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou whose 
family still holds a third of the company. If it needs cash, it should ask them first before going cap in hand to the 
taxpayer. 
The government may have to step in eventually with sector-specific support if the crisis is prolonged. Raising funds 
from cash-strapped investors and overburdened lenders will be tricky. Even so, the British government — like the 
banks — must discriminate between viable groups caught up in the maelstrom and those for which coronavirus was 
just the final straw. 
And a bailout is hardly a panacea — as the banks can attest after their rescue in 2008. Government support is 
usually accompanied by punitive equity dilution, debt subordination, high interest charges, stringent conditions and 
restrictions on executive pay, dividends and spending plans that can last decades.
The next few months will undoubtedly be turbulent. But it is still better to fly solo.
Sir Nigel not overboard
When you’ve spent 40 years at the top of British business, another year or so in the hot seat doesn’t make much 
difference. 
 Nigel Rudd, knight of the realm, is currently chair of no less than three public companies, including Meggitt, the 
FTSE 100 aerospace and defence group. Last month, Meggitt announced his retirement. Now everyone has 
thought better of the plan. Meggitt is in flux. Its core business supplying aerospace parts has evaporated and it is 
turning to designing ventilators. It is not the time to install a raw recruit to lead the group as the coronavirus crisis 
escalates. 
It was hard enough to find a decent candidate to fill septuagenarian Sir Nigel’s shoes before. Now it is tougher as 
the world locks down. Headhunters can’t just ring around and meet at the club as they did in days of yore. 
Nor is it time for Willie Walsh to turn International Consolidated Airlines over to a new chief executive. The group is 
putting on hold a planned management shuffle for the time being. Management stability is the priority, it says. No 
one wants an inexperienced pilot at the controls right now. And both Mr Walsh and Sir Nigel have experience in 
spades. 
It makes Centrica’s decision to shut the door to its chief executive Iain Conn seem that much harsher. Mr Conn’s 
departure was announced in 2019 but accelerated last week once Scott Wheway was confirmed as new chairman. 
The board and shareholders plainly didn’t see Mr Conn as the man to see the gas group through the crisis. But then 
Centrica’s shares have tanked 70 per cent during his five year tenure. 
Meggitt’s board has more faith in Sir Nigel, chairman since 2015. That said, delaying his exit will worry governance 
watchers who fret about multiple chairmanships and overboarding. More than a quarter of Meggitt’s shareholders 
voted against his reappointment a year ago. Leading one company through a crisis is tough enough, let alone 
three. 
Extraordinary times merit extraordinary measures. Nonetheless, it shouldn’t serve as a blueprint for others to 
sidestep guidelines that investors hold dear. Multiple chairmanships, like extended stints on a board, make for 
weaker oversight of executives. Tenets can be broken but only with extreme care. 
kate.burgess@ft.com
cat.rutterpooley@ft.com
Load-Date: March 25, 2020
Sunak is on the money in refusing airlines carte blanche
End of Document
Global airline industry faces $250bn coronavirus hit
Global airline industry faces $250bn coronavirus hit
 
FT.com
March 24, 2020 Tuesday 2:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 378 words
Byline: Peggy Hollinger
Body
The global airline industry faces losing more than $250bn in revenues, according to the latest forecast from a trade 
body that has been forced to slash its outlook again as coronavirus spreads. 
The hit would amount to a more than 40 per cent fall in revenues from 2019, Iata, the industry trade body warned 
on Tuesday. It is up from a prediction of $113bn made a few days ago and an initial forecast of $30bn at the start of 
the crisis.
Brian Pearce, Iata’s chief economist, said the sharp increase in the projected blow stemmed from the aggressive 
extension of travel restrictions in recent days. The bans now cover roughly 98 per cent of passenger revenues.
Capacity was expected to be 90 per cent down in Europe alone, and a number of airlines in the region are 
vulnerable to collapse.
The warning comes as Ryanair, Europe’s biggest low-cost airline, grounded its entire fleet and as governments 
around the world consider rescue packages for the aviation industry. The UK is expected to unveil its package 
soon.
Alexandre de Juniac, Iata’s director-general, said speed was imperative if governments hoped to avoid high-profile 
collapses, which would affect the global economy. 
Government willingness to act was welcome, but roughly half the world’s carriers were at risk of bankruptcy as cash 
resources were being decimated.
Global airline industry faces $250bn coronavirus hit
“We clearly need massive action very quickly. It has to be quick,” he said. “As an industry we are a vital part of the 
global economy.”
Mr Pearce said the industry also faced a slower recovery than had been experienced in previous pandemics. 
“We have never seen a pandemic coincide with a deep global recession, which is now expected,” said Mr Pearce. 
“It will almost certainly . . . delay recovery. It will be a much more gradual slope.”
Using previous experience of pandemics, recovery might have been expected to emerge by the third quarter. 
However, by the fourth quarter of this year “we still see the industry some 10 per cent below where we would 
previously have expected,” Mr Pearce said.
On a brighter note Iata said there were early signs of a recovery in domestic air travel in China. “Traffic is coming 
back slowly and the load factor for the domestic market is around 60 per cent so things are improving but slowly,” 
Mr de Juniac said. 
Load-Date: March 25, 2020
End of Document
Sunak warns airlines they will receive only ‘bespoke’ help
Sunak warns airlines they will receive only ‘bespoke’ help
 
FT.com
March 24, 2020 Tuesday 4:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 826 words
Byline: Jim Pickard, Nikou Asgari and Peggy Hollinger in London
Body
The UK chancellor has warned the aviation industry it will only receive “bespoke support” from the government after 
all other options have been exhausted, as it reels from the virtual shutdown in global travel because of the 
coronavirus pandemic.
However the letter from Rishi Sunak, sent at lunchtime on Tuesday, holds out the possibility of government 
intervention for companies in the cash-strapped industry which can prove they have pursued all other avenues for 
survival. 
“Given the significant importance of the aviation sector to our economy and economic recovery, the government is 
prepared to enter negotiations with individual companies seeking bespoke support as a last resort, having 
exhausted other options,” Mr Sunak wrote.
“However, further taxpayer support would only be possible if all commercial avenues have been fully explored, 
including raising further capital from existing investors and discussing arrangements with financial stakeholders.”
In those circumstances terms would be “structured to protect taxpayers’ interests”, Mr Sunak said in the letter, 
which was sent to airlines, airports and others in the sector. 
Ministers have not ruled out the idea of taking equity stakes in some airlines to prevent the collapse of otherwise 
viable companies. 
Sunak warns airlines they will receive only ‘bespoke’ help
One industry source said airlines seeking government support should expect ministers to demand an equity stake 
at commercial rates and that there would be significant dilution of shareholders. 
“It will be RBS style and not some soft loan,” the airline insider said, referring to the government’s takeover of the 
bank during the 2008 financial crisis.
Richard Branson, the chairman of Virgin Group, last week urged the government to provide up to £7.5bn of 
emergency state support to rescue the UK aviation industry, which has been blighted by the coronavirus pandemic. 
With flight bans across most of Europe, Ryanair announced on Tuesday that it did not expect to resume commercial 
flights before June.
In his letter, which has not been released to the public, Mr Sunak pointed out there were already several schemes 
available to help companies. Last week he revealed a package of measures to pay staff wages and defer several 
tax payments, including value added tax.
He also announced a £330bn package of loan guarantees to enable banks to lend to companies. However, the 
government is aware that these loans will not be available to all aviation companies because applicants need to be 
“investment grade”.
Mr Sunak said the priority for all companies should be to reassess their cash flow positions. “We would expect all 
companies to be pursuing all possible actions to preserve cash and maximise liquidity, including engaging with 
shareholders, lenders and the markets and utilising all available assets and facilities,” he warned. 
Transport secretary Grant Shapps was willing to discuss “industry-wide measures” to help deal with the immediate 
crisis, the chancellor added. 
Analysts suggested that airlines would struggle to raise commercial financing without greater government support 
than was indicated in the chancellor’s letter.
“What helps them get the commercial finance is a government backstop that can reassure lenders they are not the 
final line of funding,” said Gerald Khoo, aviation analyst at Liberum. “Listed companies can’t raise equity fast 
enough in this situation, even if capital markets were open.”
The chancellor’s demand that airlines explore every option before asking for help was seen by some of the 
financially more robust carriers as a smart solution to the dilemma of how to extend support without giving benefits 
to airlines that were not financially viable before the crisis.
“As long as everyone has access to the offer of help, that is fine,” said the airline insider. “But if it helps inefficient 
polluting airlines and leaves them stronger than they were before that is not OK.”
EasyJet, Europe’s second-biggest low-cost carrier, said it would review Mr Sunak’s letter and the measures to 
support UK business introduced last week. “Our immediate focus is on liquidity and protecting jobs and we are 
working with the government to make best use of these measures,” the company said. 
Norwegian Air Shuttle, the struggling low-cost carrier that employs roughly 350 people in the UK, said the letter had 
laid out more clearly than before the preconditions for any state support. “Our discussions with government will 
continue,” it said. The group, which is fighting to stave off collapse, is set to draw down the first tranche of a 
NKr300m ($27m) Norwegian government rescue package.
But Karen Dee, chief executive of the Airport Operators Association, criticised the lack of a single comprehensive 
package for the entire industry. 
“After having publicly announced a support package for airports and airlines, we’re surprised by where we find 
ourselves today. Our industry will now have to fight on its own to protect its workforce and its future,” she said. 
Sunak warns airlines they will receive only ‘bespoke’ help
Load-Date: March 25, 2020
End of Document
Richard Branson to invest $250m in Virgin empire
Richard Branson to invest $250m in Virgin empire
 
FT.com
March 22, 2020 Sunday 7:26 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 623 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Jim Pickard in London and David Crow in New York
Body
Richard Branson, the British billionaire, has committed to investing $250m into his Virgin empire to protect jobs as 
the UK government draws up plans to take equity stakes in airlines, including Virgin Atlantic, to counter the effects 
of the coronavirus crisis. 
Sir Richard wrote in a blog post on Sunday that the chances of securing a widespread economic recovery would 
“depend critically upon governments around the world” implementing support programmes. 
It comes as talks between airlines and the UK government have continued this weekend as the latter draws up 
plans for a politically difficult bailout of a sector that has been blighted by a virtual shutdown of international travel. 
The Financial Times revealed on Saturday that the government was drafting a scheme that could see it buy equity 
stakes in carriers and other companies hardest hit by the coronavirus crisis, after warnings that the economic 
packages it had announced would not be enough to save them. 
Airlines are expecting to hold another meeting with the government on Monday. One official said there would be 
daily talks with the industry this week. 
The official confirmed on Sunday that talks were going on about “something more bespoke”, which could see the 
government end up with large equity stakes in some of the airlines. But the official added that “we are not there yet” 
in terms of the final shape of any rescue package.
Richard Branson to invest $250m in Virgin empire
If enacted, the plans under discussion would see the UK taxpayer inject billions of pounds into companies in 
exchange for shares that would eventually be sold back to private investors, according to three people briefed on 
the proposals. 
One of the people said that the likelihood of taking outright equity positions in the airlines was dependent on the 
length of time that the global aviation industry was effectively shut down. More conventional rescue measures like 
loans, guarantees and tax relief would not be sufficient if the shutdown were to drag on for many months, they said. 
They added that the government could provide debt to the airlines that would subsequently convert into equity, 
making the taxpayer a substantial shareholder in the airlines. 
But this prospect has been made more likely after the outlook for the airline industry dramatically worsened over the 
past week. 
Dubai-based Emirates on Sunday became the latest carrier to warn that it will almost entirely ground its passenger 
aircraft from Wednesday. Both easyJet and Ryanair, Europe’s largest low-cost airline, have announced similar 
moves, which are expected to come into effect from Tuesday. 
Carriers are now preparing for a lengthy shutdown in air travel across much of the world. Michael O’Leary, 
Ryanair’s chief executive, on Friday told the Financial Times that the airline expected a best-case scenario of no air 
travel of at least two to three months. But he admitted that “honestly none of us have any idea”. 
Two airline executives said they were, for now, focused on using help from the government on payroll support 
which would help carriers deal with short-term cash issues. 
Virgin Atlantic has been one of the most vocal UK airlines in calling for state aid. Sir Richard, the chairman of Virgin 
Group which owns a majority stake in Virgin Atlantic, last week urged the government to provide up to £7.5bn of 
emergency state support to rescue the UK aviation industry. 
On his blog, Sir Richard said that his businesses, which span industries such as travel, leisure and wellness, were 
in a “massive battle to survive”. 
“Our airlines have had to ground almost all their planes; our cruise line has had to postpone its launch; our health 
clubs and hotels have had to close their doors and all bookings to our holiday company have stopped,” he wrote.
Load-Date: March 23, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair chief O’Leary and staff to take 50% pay cut
Ryanair chief O’Leary and staff to take 50% pay cut
 
FT.com
March 20, 2020 Friday 12:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 570 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary said that he and the rest of the airline’s employees will take a 50 per cent 
pay cut, as Europe’s largest low-cost carrier prepares for a lengthy shutdown in the region’s air travel. 
The outspoken executive said Ryanair was working on a best-case scenario of two-three months in which flights 
would be grounded and revenues would vanish as the coronavirus outbreak wreaks havoc on the industry.
However, in an interview with the Financial Times he admitted that “honestly none of us have any idea”. 
“All that you can draw on is what appears to be the Chinese experience. Both for hope and optimism. They seem to 
have no new cases now in the last two days, that’s three months later but after very draconian lock down 
measures,” he said. “If we follow the same pattern as the Chinese then I think certainly from our 
perspective . . . we’re talking about a close down that will last for at least three months.” 
The airline industry has been at the sharp end of the economic disruption unleashed by the virus, with many major 
carriers lobbying their governments for financial support and a series of top executives taking pay cuts alongside 
their staff. 
Willie Walsh, the chief executive of BA’s owner IAG, this week took a 20 per cent pay reduction for the remainder of 
his contract after delaying his retirement. 
Ryanair chief O’Leary and staff to take 50% pay cut
Mr O’Leary said he was waiting for details from the UK and Irish governments on programmes that might help pay 
workers, which are expected to be announced later on Friday. Ryanair is accessing those schemes that have 
already been put in place across many continental European countries. 
“We are facing a situation whereby . . . airlines and airports are going to have no customers and no revenues for the 
next two or three months. What we’re clearly trying to avoid — if at all possible because we have to preserve cash 
— we want to avoid mass lay-offs but the only way we can avoid mass lay-offs in our industry . . . is going to be 
payroll support for the next two to four months,” said Mr O’Leary. 
The pay cut would be for the months of April and May. Mr O’Leary said at the end of May the group will have to 
reassess the situation. He added that he could not rule out job cuts further down the line.  
Ryanair had cash and cash equivalents of over €4bn as of March 12. In addition, the group has undrawn credit lines 
and nearly 300 aircraft that it owns with a current value of about $8-$10bn, Mr O’Leary said. He did not expect the 
airline to have to draw on the credit lines for the moment.
Earlier this week, the global airline industry said it would need up to $200bn in emergency support as the 
international travel industry continued to bleed cash. The International Air Transport Association, the airlines’ main 
trade body, said the majority of carriers faced running out of money within two months. 
But Mr O’Leary warned that the EU had to be careful over how it offers airlines state aid, saying that governments 
had to be careful not to create “massive distortion” with bailouts that will leave “well-run airlines at the mercy of 
nationalised airlines at the end of this process”. 
Mr O’Leary said: “The priority here for us as a company is how do we preserve as much cash so that if we have to 
operate for three, six, nine, maybe even 12 months, with no flights and no revenues how do we survive that, do we 
have the cash to survive that and we believe we do.”
Load-Date: March 23, 2020
End of Document
Airlines push back on payments to air traffic controllers
Airlines push back on payments to air traffic controllers
 
FT.com
March 19, 2020 Thursday 4:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 584 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London and David Keohane in Paris
Body
Airlines want to defer payments to Europe’s air traffic controllers, worth about €500m a month, as they battle a 
deepening cash crisis from a virtual shutdown of international travel amid the coronavirus pandemic. 
Carriers are collectively pushing back on paying February’s charges that are due next month to Eurocontrol, 
according to people familiar with the situation. 
Eurocontrol co-ordinates national air traffic management agencies and is responsible for collecting route charges 
from carriers to fund air navigation facilities and services in the EU.
It comes as the global airline industry faces a cash crunch. The International Air Transport Association on Tuesday 
said the sector will need up to $200bn in emergency support as the travel industry bleeds cash in the face of a 
global lockdown. 
The airlines’ main trade body has warned that the majority of carriers face running out of money within two months 
because of the sudden halt in international flights by governments attempting to contain the coronavirus outbreak.
A spokeswoman for A4E, the European airline trade body, said it was asking governments in the region to defer the 
payment of air traffic control charges due as well as waiving aviation taxes at EU or national level to help the 
sector’s future recovery.
Coronavirus business update
Airlines push back on payments to air traffic controllers
How is coronavirus taking its toll on markets, business, and our everyday lives and workplaces? Stay briefed with 
our coronavirus newsletter.
 Sign up here
“At this point, many of Europe’s airlines have made the difficult decision to ground all or a substantial part of their 
fleet for the coming weeks. Many carriers have also been forced to proceed with temporary staff cuts . . . Any fiscal 
burdens should be put aside until the industry is back on a sound operational and financial footing.”
The payment for February is due on April 13, according to Eurocontrol’s website. Eurocontrol works by collecting 
money from airlines that fly over European airspace and pays a proportion of that to national governments. In 2018, 
it collected over €9bn. 
Based on figures for the month of January, Ryanair would have paid the most in air traffic charges to Eurocontrol at 
about €48m. 
Eurocontrol declined to comment on the request to defer payments. 
Andrew Charlton, a Swiss-based aviation consultant, said that if air traffic controllers — who are in charge of 
keeping the skies safe on a daily basis — are not paid by airlines, then the whole air travel system goes into even 
more of a “meltdown”. 
He noted that most air traffic control groups typically only have about two or three months’ worth of cash, of which a 
large proportion goes on salaries. 
On Tuesday, Canso, which represents global air traffic managers, warned that the coronavirus crisis was having a 
big impact on the sector, which is a critical part of national infrastructure.
It noted that air traffic controllers’ revenues are directly related to the volume of air traffic they control and so are 
“extremely vulnerable to the decreasing traffic”.
“Many are already deploying cost containment measures, but there’s no doubt that a decrease in revenue could 
significantly impair their ability to safely and seamlessly handle traffic when the volumes inevitably pick up again,” 
warned Canso.
Read more about the impact of coronavirus
•
The latest figures as the outbreak spreads
•
Containing coronavirus: lessons from Asia
•
How dangerous is the coronavirus and how does it spread
Subscribers can  use myFT to follow the latest ‘coronavirus’ coverage
Load-Date: March 21, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair warns almost entire fleet will be grounded
Ryanair warns almost entire fleet will be grounded
 
FT.com
March 18, 2020 Wednesday 5:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 682 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair has warned it will ground almost its entire fleet from next Tuesday as widespread travel bans across 
Europe in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak have brought passenger air transport to a virtual halt.
Europe’s biggest low-cost carrier said it expected “most if not all” flights to be grounded, apart from a small number 
to maintain connections between the UK and Ireland. 
It will be the largest carrier to date to ground almost its entire aircraft fleet. Austrian Airlines, part of German carrier 
Lufthansa, on Monday announced plans to temporarily suspend all flight operations. A large number of other 
airlines have this week announced measures to slash costs with some cutting flights by as much as 90 per cent.
Delta Air Lines on Wednesday said it would slash capacity by 70 per cent after it predicted that revenue this month 
would be down almost $2bn from a year earlier and projected to fall even further in April. That is an increase from 
the 40 per cent cuts it predicted on Friday.
In a memo to staff on Wednesday, Michael O’Leary, Ryanair’s chief executive, said that bookings over the past two 
weeks had fallen by up to 90 per cent, and warned that if the crisis continued the company could not rule out job 
losses. 
“The bad news is that this Covid 19 crisis is getting worse. We expect customer numbers and revenues to decline 
sharply in the coming weeks,” he wrote.
He expected a number of airline failures and government bailouts for others. 
“In Ryanair, we have to demonstrate self-help first before we can look to government for support,” he added.
Ryanair warns almost entire fleet will be grounded
Daniel Roeska, aviation analyst at Bernstein, said the “entire sector is in cash preservation mode”. He added: “The 
impact of the virus for European airlines is unprecedented. In all likelihood, air travel within Europe will grind to a 
halt for several weeks — a situation hardly anybody running an airline ever considered possible.” 
Mr Roeska noted that groundings in the US following 9/11 lasted for three days, while the Icelandic ash cloud 
disruption in 2010 prompted the cancellation of about 50 per cent of flights over an eight-day period. 
On Tuesday the global airline industry said it would need up to $200bn in emergency support as the international 
travel industry continued to bleed cash in the face of a global lockdown. 
The International Air Transport Association, the airlines’ main trade body, said the majority of carriers faced running 
out of money within two months. 
Brian Strutton of Balpa, the British pilots’ union, on Wednesday said: “The coronavirus is having a devastating effect 
on airlines and even Ryanair, who only a few weeks ago were playing it down, is now taking drastic action.”
Ryanair had already raised the prospect on Monday that all of its aircraft could be grounded in the coming months 
amid Europe’s widening border lockdowns.
Read more about the impact of coronavirus
•
The latest figures as the outbreak spreads
•
Containing coronavirus: lessons from Asia
•
How dangerous is the coronavirus and how does it spread
Subscribers can  use myFT to follow the latest ‘coronavirus’ coverage
At the time, Mr O’Leary, said capacity would be reduced by 80 per cent in April and May but “a full grounding of the 
fleet cannot be ruled out”. It said that even in countries where there were not bans, social distancing restrictions 
would make flying “impractical, if not, impossible”. 
However, just two days later, Ryanair said it would now cut its flight schedule by 80 per cent from midnight tonight 
until midnight on Tuesday next week. After that it said it expected most of its flights would be grounded. 
Meanwhile, JetBlue, one of the US’s 10 biggest airlines, said it would cut capacity by at least 40 per cent in coming 
months and had secured a $1bn credit line among steps it was taking to ride out the impact of the coronavirus. 
To help preserve cash, JetBlue said it would reduce spending wherever it could, and chief executive Robin Hayes 
and chief operating officer Joanna Geraghty would take a 50 per cent pay cut. 
Additional reporting by Peter Wells in New York and Myles McCormick in London 
Load-Date: March 24, 2020
End of Document
Most airlines face bankruptcy by end of May, industry body warns
Most airlines face bankruptcy by end of May, industry body warns
 
FT.com
March 16, 2020 Monday 11:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1120 words
Byline: FT Reporters
Body
The airline industry is warning that it must shed jobs and obtain state support to survive the coronavirus crisis, as 
carriers around the globe grounded the majority of their fleets and took steps to conserve cash. 
In the past 24 hours, United Airlines of the US, IAG — parent of British Airways, Aer Lingus and Iberia — Air 
France-KLM, easyJet, Finnair, Air New Zealand and Aeroflot all unveiled drastic measures to cut costs after several 
countries, including Germany and Spain, closed their borders. 
Willie Walsh, head of IAG, will postpone his retirement to steer the group through the health emergency. 
Announcing a 75 per cent reduction in capacity over the next two months, Mr Walsh said there was no guarantee 
that many European airlines would survive.
“The situation is going to be quite dynamic in the next few weeks,” he said. “There are many airlines out there who 
are severely stressed with little or no cash resources.” There was no guarantee that many European airlines would 
survive, he said.
His comments came as the Centre for Aviation, a respected aviation consultancy, warned that by the end of May 
most airlines would be bankrupt due to the unprecedented travel restrictions that are being rolled out by 
governments around the world. 
“Many airlines have probably already been driven into technical bankruptcy, or are at least substantially in breach of 
debt covenants,” Capa said in a  report. “By the end of May 2020, most airlines in the world will be bankrupt. Co-
ordinated government and industry action is needed — now — if catastrophe is to be avoided.”
Most airlines face bankruptcy by end of May, industry body warns
Iata, the industry trade body, estimated that the industry would lose up to $113bn in revenue as a result of the 
crisis. But that was before the widening international lockdown. The three global airline alliances, Oneworld, 
SkyTeam and Star Alliance — which represent close to 60 carriers accounting for half the world’s capacity — called 
on governments, airports, lessors and other stakeholders to help the industry. 
Mr Walsh said his group had not asked for state aid. He stressed that the group had total liquidity of €9.3bn and 
was taking actions to cut costs and preserve cash, such as grounding surplus aircraft, reducing and deferring 
capital spending and cutting working hours.
Ryanair, Europe’s biggest low-cost carrier, raised the prospect that all of its aircraft could be grounded in the 
coming months as it joined the ranks of other airlines racing to cut costs and preserve cash in the wake of Europe’s 
widening border lockdowns. Michael O’Leary, chief executive, said capacity would be reduced by 80 per cent in 
April and May but “a full grounding of the fleet cannot be ruled out”.
In those countries where the fleet was not grounded, “social distancing restrictions may make flying to all intents 
and purposes, impractical, if not, impossible”, he said.
Air France-KLM said it would be reducing capacity by 70-90 per cent and had a “sharply deteriorated financial 
trajectory”. It said it welcomed statements from the French and Dutch governments that they were studying all 
possible means to support the group. It said a host of emergency measures — ranging from cost savings of up to 
€200m and plans to cut employee hours — would only offset the capacity reduction by half.
United Airlines in the US and Air New Zealand have told staff that they will begin redundancy processes, as travel 
restrictions force carriers to slash capacity and ground tens of thousands of aircraft. 
Air New Zealand said on Monday that it would reduce international capacity by 85 per cent and cut domestic 
capacity by almost a third in April and May. The carrier, which employs 8,000 people, said it would consult with 
trade unions about redundancies. 
That followed news from United that it is planning to halve its capacity for April and May, and has warned its nearly 
100,000 employees of “painful” cuts to its payroll. 
US carriers United, American Airlines and Delta Air Lines have all announced deep cuts to their international 
services and have begun talking to the federal government about possible assistance. 
EasyJet, Europe’s second biggest low-cost carrier, withdrew its guidance for this year and said it was cutting 
capacity, although it did not quantify the reduction. Like many carriers it is in discussions with financiers to bolster 
its liquidity position. It said it had cash balances of £1.6bn and an undrawn $500m revolving credit. 
Finnair is cutting 90 per cent of its capacity and its dividend amid what the Finnish flag carrier described as the 
“biggest crisis in the history of aviation” thanks to the coronavirus outbreak. The Finnish airline warned of a 
substantial financial loss this year and was working urgently on a funding plan including credit lines, loans, and the 
sale and leaseback of aircraft. Finland’s government, which owns more than half of the shares “will actively support” 
Finnair, the airline said. 
Aeroflot, the Russian airline, also announced that it was suspending flights to several international destinations.
Airlines for Australia and New Zealand, an industry group representing carriers in both countries, said the airline 
sector was seeking state support including relief on government charges and possible grants that could be made 
available from government stimulus packages. 
Alison Roberts, chief executive of the industry group, said carriers faced a situation that was much more serious 
than the global financial crisis in 2008. 
S&P underscored the perilous state of the industry on Monday by downgrading its credit rating on Australia’s 
second-largest carrier, Virgin Australia, to B- from B+. The credit rating agency warned that the operating 
Most airlines face bankruptcy by end of May, industry body warns
environment “may be deteriorating at a faster pace than Virgin can implement initiatives to protect cash generation 
and balance sheet health”. 
Read more about the impact of coronavirus
•
The latest figures as the outbreak spreads
•
How countries around the world are battling coronavirus
•
How dangerous is the coronavirus and how does it spread
Subscribers can  use myFT to follow the latest ‘coronavirus’ coverage
Australia’s Transport Workers’ Union wrote to Australia’s prime minister, Scott Morrison, on Monday urging the 
government to subsidise airlines and aviation companies, warning that large scale lay-offs or business collapses 
would hamper economic recovery. 
“When the current crisis comes to an end, the Australian economy will need a healthy transport industry in place,” 
said Michael Kaine, TWU national secretary, in a letter to Mr Morrison seen by the Financial Times. 
Reporting by Jamie Smyth in Sydney, Andrew Edgecliffe-Johnson in New York, Peggy Hollinger and Myles 
McCormick in London, David Keohane in Paris, and Richard Milne in Oslo
Load-Date: March 16, 2020
End of Document
Virgin group chairman calls for £7.5bn bailout of UK airlines
Virgin group chairman calls for £7.5bn bailout of UK airlines
 
FT.com
March 15, 2020 Sunday 12:15 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 547 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London and Andrew Edgecliffe-Johnson in New York
Body
The chairman of Virgin Group will urge the government to provide up to £7.5bn of emergency state support to 
rescue the UK aviation industry, which has been decimated by the coronavirus pandemic. 
Peter Norris plans to send a letter early this week to the prime minister, chancellor and transport secretary warning 
them that the entire aviation sector — airlines and airport operators — faces pressing financing issues, according to 
an industry source. 
The letter will warn that even large airlines could run dangerously low on cash because of the plummeting demand 
and travel bans, which has seen carriers around the world cancel tens of thousands of flights, withdraw earnings 
guidance and implement austerity measures. 
Virgin, which is a majority shareholder of UK carrier Virgin Atlantic, will urge the government to extend the 
temporary suspension of airport slot rules to October. The European Commission on Friday said it would relax 
these rules until June, but many in the airline industry want to see it extended for a longer period. 
The letter, which was first reported by Sky News, comes after the crisis affecting the airline industry deepened last 
week following President Donald Trump’s move to block most travel by Europeans to the US in an attempt to curtail 
the spread of the virus. The travel ban was subsequently extended on Saturday to also include UK and Ireland from 
midnight Monday night eastern standard time. 
Virgin group chairman calls for £7.5bn bailout of UK airlines
The move will have a devastating impact on Virgin Atlantic, British Airways and Norwegian Air Shuttle who fly the 
profitable transatlantic routes. Ryanair and easyJet are also being hit by plummeting demand and travel bans in 
Europe. 
There is a growing concern that the pandemic could paralyse travel until May/June and hit the start of the summer 
season when the airline industry typically makes the majority of its money. Even before the US travel ban, Iata, the 
airline trade body, warned that the industry was in crisis because of the global spread of the coronavirus, which it 
estimated could cost airlines as much as $113bn in revenues this year. 
On Friday, the chief executives of several major airlines gave a series of dire warnings about the outlook for the 
sector as they scrambled to shore up their businesses following a sharp rise in cancellations. 
The chief executive of British Airways warned staff that the carrier will have to cut jobs, suspend routes and ground 
aircraft because of the coronavirus pandemic. Alex Cruz told 45,000 staff in the message entitled “The Survival of 
British Airways” that BA was “under immense pressure” despite a robust balance sheet and the support of a strong 
parent company in IAG.
While Delta’s chief executive Ed Bastian told employees the Atlanta-based airline was in discussions with the US 
government for help and taking moves to preserve cash, revealing that cancellations were outnumbering bookings 
for flights in the next four weeks.
Meanwhile, the French government is preparing to come to the aid of Air-France KLM, which has been hit hard by 
the coronavirus and Donald Trump’s travel ban. France is studying how best to support the carrier, which is 14.3 
per cent state-owned, with senior finance ministry officials saying they were considering loans rather than 
increasing their shareholding.
Load-Date: March 21, 2020
End of Document
Why coronavirus is making me miss Brexit
Why coronavirus is making me miss Brexit
 
FT.com
March 13, 2020 Friday 10:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 747 words
Byline: Robert Shrimsley
Body
The only good thing about coronavirus is that at least people have stopped telling you where they went on holiday. 
It’s not much of a silver lining but we must all draw what consolation we can in these panicked times.
Where once the weeks after half-term were filled with stories of skiing, mini-breaks to Venice, the beaches of 
Tenerife and even exotic jaunts to Asia, suddenly everyone has got terribly coy about their travels. Facebook pages 
are notably less full of holiday snaps. 
One old friend travelled to Vietnam seemingly unaware that each new photo screamed “self-isolation” on his return. 
Absolutely no one seems keen to mention their trip to Italy lest their children are plucked from school. Thus far our 
own mini-break has triggered no alarms, but, if anyone asks, we opted for a staycation.
(At this point it is only fair to warn you that this column will be displaying signs of flippancy. There may also be 
isolated outbreaks of irreverence, so anyone who thinks that is inappropriate should probably move on. You might 
also want to wash your hands for 20 seconds.)
Then again, the upsurge of virus conversations has already left me mourning our old arguments over Brexit. In a 
choice between the WTO and the WHO I’ll take the rules-of-origin debate any day. Coronavirus may be moving 
from the containment to delay stage but the conversations have already reached pandemic level. 
Why coronavirus is making me miss Brexit
It is one thing to fret about death rates and vulnerable relatives, to search for accurate information, as opposed to 
those websites that appear to be edited by Dad’s Army’s Private Frazer. But information exchanges about bog roll? 
Not so much.
We are, at least, past the stage of conversation in which all discussions are dominated by the one person who 
insists the whole thing has been blown out of all proportion, that the world has gone mad and that this is the ideal 
moment to take advantage of Ryanair’s very cheap flights to Wuhan. 
What we are not beyond, apparently, is the second-guessing of experts by people who, in fact, know nothing. It may 
well be that the chief medical officer will get some judgments wrong but I’m still going to go with his advice rather 
than that guy four doors down who has just read  an article by Piers Morgan.
After medical concerns, then the big debate is on stockpiling, though, of course, only those with a decent 
disposable income can afford to do this. Those of us fortunate enough to still have supplies in our Brexit panic room 
have, of course, a head start on others but we cannot afford to be complacent. We had to book our Ocado delivery 
four days earlier than usual and, even then, they were out of Imperial Leather.
But even in the face of panic buying people are still maintaining some standards. A colleague reported that his local 
Tesco had sold out of all pasta except lasagne sheets. Seriously, what kind of panic is this? I mean, come on, I 
know it’s a bit harder to cook but I wouldn’t have thought a choice of starvation or lasagne was an especially difficult 
call.
I do worry, however, about these emergency food parcels we are going to get to people who are self-isolating. 
Obviously, survival is the first concern but Parmigiano-Reggiano is a close second. What if they give us goat’s 
cheese instead? Many of us are not partial to it. Health secretary Matt Hancock may be attempting to reassure us 
that no one will be left without food but, frankly, we want a little better than that.
This is not just a safety-of-life issue; it is a quality-of-life issue too. Bad enough to have a humanity- and economy-
threatening pandemic; how much worse to have to get through it on tinned tuna. Forget your toilet paper and Carex, 
we are heading for the halloumi and we’ll empty the shelves if we have to. Meanwhile, over in Barnes, I hear talk of 
residents from the Richmond Resistance, lying in wait to ambush emergency ricotta deliveries.
Apparently, this is all going to herald the return of the great British stiff upper lip. Perhaps we could shove the 
uncooked lasagne in our mouths for underpinning?
Follow Robert on Twitter  @robertshrimsley or email him at 
Follow  @FTMag on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first. Listen to our culture podcast,             Culture 
Call, where editors Gris and Lilah dig into the trends shaping life in the 2020s, interview the people breaking new 
ground and bring you behind the scenes of FT Life & Arts journalism. Subscribe on             Apple,             Spotify, or 
wherever you listen.
Load-Date: March 23, 2020
End of Document
Norwegian is facing a tough flight to safety as coronavirus hits
Norwegian is facing a tough flight to safety as coronavirus hits
 
FT.com
March 12, 2020 Thursday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 690 words
Byline: Richard Milne, Nordic and Baltic Correspondent
Body
Norwegian Air Shuttle has stumbled from crisis to crisis in recent years. But the coronavirus-inspired fall in demand 
is the most serious test yet for Europe’s third-largest low-cost airline. 
The collapse in passenger numbers is putting all airlines worldwide in a  tight spot, pushing them to cancel flights 
and seek ways of cutting costs fast as revenues evaporate. Norwegian is especially exposed due to its high debt 
burden incurred through a decade of breakneck expansion. 
Analysts are increasingly worried that it could breach its bond covenants or simply run out of cash. Last year, it 
overcame similar Doomsday concerns and survived through a mixture of rights issues and other radical actions. 
Can it pull off the same trick again? 
At first, the litany of problems Norwegian has faced in the past two years appear to be down to bad luck. The airline 
had big problems with the engines on its Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft in 2018. A few months later, it was further 
hurt when the same manufacturer’s 737 Max planes were grounded after two fatal crashes. Now the coronavirus 
has hit with full force, sending Norwegian’s shares down by almost three-quarters in the past month alone to their  
lowest level since 2005. 
But some analysts argue that for all Norwegian’s inability to catch a break, its real problem is its lack of cash 
reserves if something goes wrong. The airline sector is an industry where unexpected things are prone to occur; 
that leaves what Andrew Lobbenberg at HSBC calls the “world’s most levered listed airline” susceptible to shocks. 
Norwegian is facing a tough flight to safety as coronavirus hits
Norwegian’s net debt has increased steadily from NKr22bn ($2.3bn) in 2017 to NKr58bn at the end of last year — in 
large part due to accounting rule changes on leases — just as its equity market capitalisation has plunged to 
NKr1.8bn. Analysts at ABG Sundal Collier show that its net debt to ebitda (earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation) ratio is 7.1, compared with an average of 1.8 for European carriers — and just 0.5 
for low-cost airlines such as Ryanair and easyJet. 
Norwegian, like almost all carriers, is taking drastic action. On Tuesday, it announced 3,000 flight cancellations  — 
or about 15 per cent of its capacity between mid-March and mid-June — and warned staff in an internal note “to be 
prepared for a scenario where we reduce capacity by up to 50 per cent”. 
Few in the industry such as executives, analysts or investors know how big the knock will be. Analysts at ABG 
already worried last week that Norwegian could break the book equity covenant on its bonds in the second quarter 
of this year. They also forecast that its net cash of NKr3bn — compared with revenues of NKr43.5bn last year — 
could shrink to just NKr880m by the end of June. 
Mr Lobbenberg said that on his models of falls in unit revenues this year of 3-7 per cent, “Norwegian lives” in each 
scenario. But, he added: “If it’s materially larger, you do challenge those covenants”. 
Thus many speculate that Norwegian will need to tap shareholders for the fourth time since March 2018. ABG 
analysts estimated that Norwegian could have to raise up to NKr3bn, close to double its current market value, to 
avoid facing the same worries next year. 
But raising capital during such a crisis is far from straightforward. “It's possible that launching a rights issue in the 
current environment wouldn't work,” said Mr Lobbenberg. 
The market is looking closely at what Geir Karlsen, Norwegian’s chief financial officer, can do after he positively 
surprised investors last year. He shifted the strategy from growth to profitability and unveiled a package of 
measures to shore up the balance sheet. Debt was restructured, a long-awaited aircraft joint venture was unveiled, 
and a stake in the bank the airline founded was sold off. Then, late last year, Norwegian’s board upset many in the 
market by passing over Mr Karlsen for the chief executive job, instead choosing a former retail executive and 
McKinsey consultant, Jacob Schram. 
As the coronavirus deepens in Europe, the flight path for Messrs Schram and Karlsen to guide Norwegian to safety 
is getting more and more turbulent.
Load-Date: March 24, 2020
End of Document
Flybe collapses after last-ditch talks with government fail
Flybe collapses after last-ditch talks with government fail
 
FT.com
March 5, 2020 Thursday 7:41 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 781 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Jim Pickard in London
Body
UK airline Flybe has collapsed after months of talks with the government failed to secure a crucial £100m loan and 
the coronavirus outbreak slashed demand, pushing Europe’s largest regional carrier into bankruptcy in the early 
hours of Thursday morning.
Flybe confirmed it had entered administration after holding last-ditch talks with the government on Wednesday 
afternoon, a move that puts more than 2,000 jobs at risk and raises uncertainty over many regional air routes within 
the UK. 
“All flights operated by Flybe have been cancelled with immediate effect,” the airline said in a statement.
“Europe’s largest independent regional airline has been unable to overcome significant funding challenges to its 
business,” the statement said. “This has been compounded by the outbreak of coronavirus which in the last few 
days has resulted in a significant impact on demand.”
EY is handling the airline’s administration. 
Grant Shapps, transport secretary, said it was “very sad” that the company had gone out of business after four 
decades. The government was working with other transport providers to help Flybe customers get home, he said. 
“We are also urgently working with industry to identify how key routes can be re-established by other airlines as 
soon as possible,” said Mr Shapps.
Flybe collapses after last-ditch talks with government fail
On Thursday morning, Kelly Tolhurst, aviation minister, said in a tweet that Glasgow-based Loganair had committed 
to taking on 16 routes previously operated by Flybe.
Meanwhile, rail operators are offering stranded Flybe customers and staff the option to travel free on their trains 
over the next week if they show their boarding details or ID, according to the Rail Delivery Group. British Airways, 
easyJet and Ryanair have all launched so-called rescue fares for Flybe customers on routes they currently operate.
Flybe collapsed after the Treasury concluded it could not authorise a £100m loan, a key part of a government-
backed rescue package unveiled in January, according to Whitehall officials. While Flybe initially had enough 
money to see the airline past the UK Budget next week, the impact of coronavirus on bookings has “sped things 
up”, according to one person with knowledge of the matter. 
“The impact of coronavirus has made a bad situation worse,” said another person close to the airline. “It has been in 
a pretty precarious position for a while — it doesn’t take much to push it over the edge.”
Flybe’s management had also became increasingly concerned that any cuts to air passenger duty — another 
possible element of the rescue package — might not kick in until 2021, which would be too late for the airline to 
survive the coming months. 
The airline was only saved from administration last year by Connect Airways — a consortium of Virgin Atlantic, 
Stobart Aviation and hedge fund Cyrus Capital. Connect had agreed to invest £30m into the airline to continue 
operations as part of the government’s rescue package.
Virgin Atlantic said the consortium of owners had over the past 14 months invested more than £135m to keep Flybe 
flying for an extra year. This amount includes about £25m of the £30m committed in January 2020, alongside a time 
to pay an arrangement with the Treasury on air passenger duty of £3.8m. 
“We are deeply disappointed that Flybe has been unable to secure a viable basis for its continuing operations and 
has therefore entered administration,” Virgin Atlantic said. 
Mark Anderson, chief executive of Flybe, which has operated since 1979, said: “The UK has lost one of its greatest 
regional assets. Flybe has been a key part of the UK aviation industry for four decades, connecting regional 
communities, people and businesses across the entire nation.” 
Flybe’s administration follows last year’s failure of UK travel group Thomas Cook, which was liquidated after it was 
unable to secure a lifeline from the government.
Flybe’s administration raises questions for the government over the future of important regional air routes in the UK. 
The airline is responsible for nearly 40 per cent of all domestic UK flights and carries more than 9m passengers 
annually.
Andy McDonald, shadow transport secretary, said: “The collapse of Flybe is disastrous news for passengers and 
employees alike and will cause real anxiety in many regions throughout the country.”
John Strickland, a London-based aviation consultant, said Flybe’s business model “has been challenged for a long 
time”. 
“It suffered from previous overambitious fleet expansion which successive managements have grappled with but 
still remained too big to be viable in the regional air service market,” he said. “On top of this surface competition and 
the heavy air duty passenger tax burden added salt to the wounds.”
Load-Date: March 9, 2020
End of Document
Coronavirus pushes aviation sector into ‘crisis zone’
Coronavirus pushes aviation sector into ‘crisis zone’ 
 
FT.com
March 4, 2020 Wednesday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1266 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Peggy Hollinger in London and Javier Espinoza in Brussels
Body
Airbus is reviewing its 2020 delivery targets, issued barely three weeks ago, as the global spread of coronavirus in 
recent days through Europe and into the US pushes the aviation industry into crisis mode.
Passenger demand plunged sharply at the weekend, forcing carriers around the world to freeze hiring and  slash 
the number of flights, including on lucrative transatlantic routes. Iata, the airline trade body, will on Thursday 
significantly increase its estimate of the hit to global sales as a result of the virus. Just 12 days ago it estimated a 
near-$30bn impact, based largely on the reduction in flights to and from China.
Current data show a 2.8 per cent fall in global aircraft capacity this year, according to aviation data consultancy, 
Ascend, against Iata’s expectations late last year for growth of 4.7 per cent in 2020. 
In that context Airbus will not be alone in reassessing its guidance for this year. Executives from the aerospace and 
airline industries said they were monitoring the situation daily. Airbus has not decided to cut its delivery target but 
one person with knowledge of the situation said “there are several airlines trying to defer deliveries. It is probable 
that guidance will have to be reassessed before the end of March.” Analysts suggested that the impact of deferrals 
on Boeing could be mitigated by the year-long grounding of the 737 Max after two fatal crashes. Airbus declined to 
comment.
Some airlines were also seeking a temporary holiday from lease payments, according to two industry insiders.
The review by Airbus and moves this week by carriers from British Airways to Ryanair to sharply cut flights show 
how quickly the crisis is escalating for the sector.
Coronavirus pushes aviation sector into ‘crisis zone’
“We’re in a crisis zone for airlines. The situation has rather dramatically accelerated over this last weekend,” said 
Brian Pearce, chief economist at Iata.
“This is far worse than the Sars episode,” he added. “It’s looking more like the global financial crisis, where airline 
revenues fell 16 per cent in 2009. We’re not there yet but it will depend on the success of which governments 
manage to contain this European outbreak.”
On Monday BA slashed more than 400 flights between March 16 and March 28, to countries including Italy, 
Germany and, crucially, the US. Its decision to cut transatlantic routes was highly unusual and a sign of the 
deepening impact of the disease. The last time this happened in any sustained way was during the 2008-09 
financial crisis, according to Rob Stallard, aerospace analyst at Vertical Research.
Ryanair cut short-haul flights to Italy by up to 25 per cent between March 17 and April 8, while Lufthansa and 
easyJet cut capacity late last week.
Sources at Virgin Atlantic said the carrier had seen a 40 per cent drop in customer demand compared with March 
2019, in a sign that concerns were hitting demand on transatlantic routes, not just short-haul flights in Europe. The 
airline is likely to become the latest carrier to step up emergency cost-saving measures to protect its balance sheet 
in the coming days.
Some European airline executives played down concerns that the coronavirus would cause significant and long-
term damage to demand.
Speaking at a trade conference in Brussels on Tuesday, Michael O’Leary, group chief executive at Ryanair, 
Europe’s biggest low-cost carrier, said: “The immediate short-term panic about travelling will erode very rapidly. It 
will erode over the next two or three weeks.”
He added: “Will families continue to travel on their Easter school break? Yes, they will unless there is some 
unforeseen events.”
Willie Walsh, chief executive of IAG, which owns BA, said the coronavirus situation was not similar to the 9/11 
terrorist attacks. “9/11 was clearly a transatlantic issue. It represented a very significant fall in demand in 
transatlantic but it did recover pretty quickly once US skies reopened.”
He too expected the decline to abate soon. “If it follows the pattern that we saw in Asia, you would expect it to 
stabilise within a couple of weeks.”
But despite their cautious optimism, airlines seemed to be moving into “survival mode”, said Rob Morris, global 
head of aviation consultancy at Ascend by Cirium. “The name of the game is to hunker down, reduce cost by paring 
schedule as far as possible, seek capital cost reductions by negotiating with leasing companies, enjoy lower fuel 
prices that are resulting, and then ensure that when the crisis ends . . . you are still in business,” he said.
In a note on Tuesday, aviation analyst at HSBC Andrew Lobbenberg said on a base case scenario the European 
listed carriers could see earnings cuts ranging from 87 per cent at Air France-KLM to 23 per cent at Wizz Air for 
2020.
Johan Lundgren, chief executive of easyJet, said the hit to the sector would depend on how successful countries 
were at containing the virus. “We can see this is stabilising in some markets and then we can see this is a very 
short-term effect on bookings,” he said. However he warned that if containment failed, the situation would be more 
challenging.
On February 13 Airbus said it expected to deliver about 880 commercial aircraft this year, assuming “no major 
disruptions, including from the coronavirus”. Now, however, it is in discussions with airline customers, many of 
whom are Chinese, about possible deferrals of deliveries, according to people with knowledge of the situation. 
Chinese carriers were still bound by travel restrictions and many could not come to collect their aircraft, according to 
one industry executive.
Coronavirus pushes aviation sector into ‘crisis zone’
“The timing of this is the big question,” said one senior aerospace executive. “It is how deep will it be and where is 
the bottom? And then how steep the slope will be on the other side?
“But it is still more wait and see at this point. Conversations with airlines are occurring, but not yet about making 
major changes on a major scale.”
Many aerospace executives were still holding to targets set in the early weeks of 2020. The experience of the Sars 
epidemic in 2003 had shown that demand recovered quickly — within six to seven months — once the worst was 
over, said one.
“The next two months are pretty important,” he added.
The spread of the virus outside Asia is also hitting the so-called “super connector” carriers, such as Emirates and 
Qatar Airways, whose growth strategies have largely been based on linking cities in the Far East with the Middle 
East, Africa, Europe and the Americas.
Read more about the coronavirus impact
•
The latest figures as the outbreak spreads
•
How far will it spread
•
How dangerous is the coronavirus and how does it spread
Subscribers can  use myFT to follow the latest ‘coronavirus’ coverage
Dubai’s Emirates on Tuesday said it had offered staff voluntary unpaid leave as it cut flights to destinations affected 
by the outbreak and sees slower demand in some markets. Employees note that the picture is mixed across 
Emirates’ network, with routes into Asia and Europe still showing strong demand. “But it’s a quiet period,” said one 
pilot. “The test will be the start of Easter holidays.”
While airlines globally are freezing recruitment and investment in an emergency effort to protect profitability, 
aviation analysts said some weaker players were at risk of collapse.
“Airlines have to walk a line between taking action to protect themselves in this period and yet be in a position to 
take advantage of a resumption in demand when it comes,” said Mr Lobbenberg.
Additional reporting by Simeon Kerr in Dubai
Letter in response to this article:
New subsidies must reflect 2050 net-zero targets / From Julian Allwood, University of Cambridge, UK
Load-Date: March 18, 2020
End of Document
Virgin Atlantic cuts chief’s pay to help offset hit from coronavirus
Virgin Atlantic cuts chief’s pay to help offset hit from coronavirus
 
FT.com
March 4, 2020 Wednesday 5:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 521 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Virgin Atlantic is cutting the pay of its chief executive by 20 per cent for four months as it becomes the latest airline 
to take emergency measures to protect profitability as the coronavirus continues to hit passenger demand. 
The British carrier on Wednesday said chief executive Shai Weiss had agreed to reduce his pay between April and 
July, while its executive leadership team would take a salary cut of 15 per cent. 
Virgin Atlantic’s move comes as airlines around the world are freezing recruitment and slashing the number of 
flights in the wake of the spreading virus. 
The International Air Transport Association, the airline trade body, will on Thursday significantly increase its 
estimate of the hit to global sales from the virus. Just 13 days ago it estimated a near-$30bn impact, but this was 
based largely on the impact in Asia. 
The Financial Times reported on Wednesday that Virgin Atlantic had suffered a 40 per cent drop in customer 
demand compared with March 2019, in a sign that the virus is hitting demand for long-haul flights, not just short-
haul flights in Europe. 
European airlines have stepped up flight cancellations in recent days, with British Airways slashing more than 400 
flights between March 16 and 28 to countries including Italy, Germany and the US. 
Ryanair has also cut short-haul flights to Italy by up to 25 per cent between March 17 and April 8, while Lufthansa 
and easyJet reduced capacity last week.
Virgin Atlantic cuts chief’s pay to help offset hit from coronavirus
On Wednesday, Hungary-based carrier Wizz Air said it would cut its flight schedule, mainly to Italian destinations, 
over the coming month. 
The low-cost airline said it would also consider a further 10 per cent capacity reduction in the quarter beginning in 
April, depending on how much further demand is lowered by the spread of the virus. 
Wizz has already cut overheads, relocated staff and implemented a hiring freeze in an attempt to keep down 
spending. 
Virgin Atlantic says it will delay the start of its London Heathrow to São Paulo service, which was due to start on 
March 29, until the winter season with services beginning from October 5. 
The carrier has already suspended its London Heathrow to Shanghai service until April 19 and reduced the 
frequency of its Hong Kong route.
The airline is also freezing recruitment and offering ground-based employees unpaid leave of between one to two 
weeks to be taken before July 31. It has further proposed to defer annual increases from March until August, when 
it will reassess affordability.
Virgin Atlantic said: “As with airlines around the world, Virgin Atlantic is feeling the impact of Covid-19 and seeing a 
fall in customer demand for travel. 
“We are taking appropriate measures and focusing efforts on ensuring that the airline is in a robust position to 
weather the storm, minimising the impact of the virus on Virgin Atlantic and Virgin Holidays.”
Read more about the impact of coronavirus
•
The latest figures as the outbreak spreads
•
How markets woke up to the threat
•
How dangerous is the coronavirus and how does it spread
Subscribers can  use myFT to follow the latest ‘coronavirus’ coverage
Additional reporting by Myles McCormick
Load-Date: March 5, 2020
End of Document
Opening Quote: Investors brace for uncertainty amid sharp rise in volatility
Opening Quote: Investors brace for uncertainty amid sharp rise in volatility
 
FT.com
March 3, 2020 Tuesday 8:18 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 751 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
FT subscribers can  click here to receive Opening quote by email.
After Monday’s whipsawing markets, investors are bracing for another day of uncertainty. A surge on Wall Street 
was initially followed up this Tuesday morning by a rally in Asian stocks, buoyed by hopes that central banks will 
take action to stave off the economic slowdown caused by coronavirus. That rebound has stumbled in recent hours, 
however, after a draft statement attributed to officials from G7 countries was interpreted as signalling action was 
less likely after all. 
Volatility isn’t bad for everyone, though. Exchanges benefited from a surge in trading volumes during February, with 
Friday the second-busiest trading day on record in the US, according to CBOE Global Markets. And this Tuesday 
morning spreadbetter CMC Markets has upgraded its profit forecast for the year. Net operating income is set to be 
ahead of market consensus of £201m. Every cloud. 
Briefly 
Greggs the baker has been knocked off course by February’s incessant UK storms. The company’s vegan pastry 
successes helped lift profits by almost a third last year to £108m, with sales up 13.5 per cent to £1.17bn. But after a 
“very strong start to 2020” in January, Greggs reported a “significant slowdown” in February because of the bad 
weather. Like-for-like sales were up 7.5 per cent for the first nine weeks of the year. 
Opening Quote: Investors brace for uncertainty amid sharp rise in volatility
Tui is the latest tour operator to warn of hiring freezes and budget cuts due to coronavirus. On Monday the airlines 
industry body warned about the impact of a collapse in passenger numbers (more on which below). British Airways 
and Ryanair have cancelled hundreds of flights to countries including Italy, Germany and the USA, following similar 
moves by Lufthansa and easyJet. Tui said that strong trading before last week meant that bookings for the year to 
date were still well above last year, but that could change. 
Shareholders in Sirius Minerals meet on Tuesday to vote on a bid by Anglo American. The takeover offer values 
Sirius, with its pipe dream of a potash mine under the Yorkshire Moors, at £405m excluding debt, a fraction of the 
level most small shareholders bought in at. Unhappy investors have been trying to raise £460m to keep Sirius out of 
Anglo’s hands. But if the vote passes on Tuesday, it will be hard to escape the sale to Anglo. 
Job moves 
Direct Line’s chairman Mike Biggs has said he plans to step down this year. He has been in the role for eight 
years, since before the insurer’s IPO, and will leave the group once a successor is found. 
Discount retailer B&M has recruited Alex Russo as its CFO. Currently group finance director of retailer Wilko, he 
will join B&M no later than June 2021. 
Beyond the Square Mile 
Waymo, the Google sister company that sparked the race to build driverless cars, has raised $2.25bn from a group 
of outside investors, the first time it has looked beyond parent company Alphabet for capital. The investment 
matches the amount SoftBank ploughed into Cruise, the General Motors driverless car unit, last year and points to 
an acceleration of efforts by the leading autonomous vehicle companies to launch full robot taxi services. 
UBS chief executive Sergio Ermotti is to become chairman of insurance group Swiss Re after he steps down from 
the bank later this year, according to people familiar with the decision. Switzerland’s largest lender said last month 
that Mr Ermotti was leaving in November after nine years in charge, during which time he shrunk the investment 
bank and focused on growing wealth management. 
The International Air Transport Association, the airlines industry body, has warned of a collapse in passenger 
numbers and asked regulators to relax rules that penalise airlines if they do not use landing and take-off slots. 
Bookings have fallen and airlines are responding by giving staff unpaid leave, freezing pay and grounding aircraft, 
according to Iata. It said one airline had reported that bookings for flights to Italy had dropped to zero.
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Jack Welch, former General Electric CEO,1935-2020
Jack Welch was one of America’s most influential managers and an embodiment of the past century’s “ cult of the 
CEO”. 
Eyes on the pies 
If you enjoyed Bryce Elder’s guide to Mayfair power dining, then we’ve got a treat in store for you. Bryce is back 
with a round-up of where to find the finest comfort food in the capital.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here. 
Load-Date: March 3, 2020
End of Document
Markets not live, Tuesday 3rd March 2020
Markets not live, Tuesday 3rd March 2020
 
FT.com
March 3, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 3636 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Four of the FTSE 100’s top five daily gains were in 2008, the fifth was in 1987 shortly after Black Monday, and none 
coincided with their encompassing selloff’s lowest ebb. History tells us that volatility will swing both ways, and 
there’s not a lot to get excited about in today’s rally, so let’s not.
At pixel the FTSE’s up 2 per cent, which follows a weakening dollar powering Wall Street higher overnight, which 
stemmed from a lot of pricing in of emergency rate cuts. Cheap credit is untested as a treatment for acute 
respiratory infections and a weaker dollar isn’t all that great for most countries but the hope is for QE5 to form into a 
crashmat under the global economy, so .... good? Maybe? Anyway. 
 IAG and             Tui are leading us up for no reason other than they’ve been leading us down recently, as the 
outlook for summer season corporate and leisure travel bookings doesn’t seem to change markedly on whether the 
Fed funds rate is 1.50 or 1.75. Here’s HSBC on the airlines: 
Since COVID-19 spread to Europe, demand for air travel in Europe has weakened broadly. European airlines, 
which were sanguine about the potential impact of the virus when it was an Asian phenomenon, are now taking 
radical action, cutting capacity and implementing short-term operating and capital costs.We model three 
scenarios: Demand for travel is weakening, but it is not possible to know the extent, scale and duration of this 
demand drop. In the interest of simplicity, we apply three scenarios uniformly to all the European airlines we 
cover. For our base-case scenarios, we now assume 2.5 point drops in load factors and 2.5 point weaker 
developments for yields yoy both relative to what we had previously estimated. We assume 3% cuts to capacity 
relative to our previous models. For our high- and low impact scenarios, we assume 3.5 and 1.5 point cuts to 
loads and yields, respectively.We now assume market kerosene prices of USD530/MT for 2020 and 
Markets not live, Tuesday 3rd March 2020
USD570/MT for 2021. We assume revenue trends recover to our previously modelled levels in 2021. Cut 
estimates significantly for 2020 and assume weaker balance sheet and cash metrics: Our base cases now 
imply EBIT cuts ranging from 87% at Air France-KLM to 23% at Ryanair and Wizz. Although all our estimates 
for cash and gearing metrics are now weaker, we do not foresee existential doubts for our coverage in our 
base-case or low-impact scenarios.Remain constructive but expect volatility: We expect share prices to be 
highly volatile on profit warnings and news reports on airline reactions. We see this as a crisis, yet we remain 
constructive for the industry. Demand will recover, in our view, but we do not know when. We now expect 
further consolidation to happen. By 2021, we expect airlines to benefit from lower hedged fuel costs.
Tui said late Monday that the financial effects of Covid-19 were unquantifiable though the impact on its operations 
had only been minor so far. 2020 had started “exceptionally well in terms of booking trends” and this continued into 
January, Tui said. Trends haven’t been so great in the last week, in line with the industry, particularly for the fag end 
of the winter season. Tui added that year-to-date bookings remain “well above prior year” levels, a statement that 
means almost nothing given Thomas Cook was still trading this time last year. Here’s Kelper Cheuvreux:
With rising numbers of infected people, the risk of travel bans to certain destinations and a general concern by 
people to avoid places with a crowd of people in a condensed area, the travel industry will most likely be one of 
the most affected sectors and potentially with the longest duration. The impact can of course not be calculated 
seriously and hence it is also impossible for the companies to measure the impact. The magnitude of the 
immediate cost cuts and the ability to quickly reduce capacities will be key for TUI. We understand that a 
breach of covenants for the RCF is currently not an issue but it needs to be monitored (net leverage and 
interest cover hurdles). The current political crises in Syria, in which Turkey is closely involved, and the 
associated refugee drama at the border of Turkey and Greece may also have an impact on the bookings 
pattern for the summer.By February, TUI recorded that 36% of its summer capacity had been booked, which 
marked a 200bp increase YOY. However, we expect bookings will from now on be held back making this year’s 
summer booking’s a rather late bookings period. This makes capacity planning very complex. There are thus 
operating risks in the sector with a low transparency as to how much of it might be mitigated by cost savings.
And here’s some more on leisure sector balance sheets from Stifel:
Summer holiday programmes are typically 35-40% booked by early March. But the spread of Coronavirus to 
Europe will drive a later booking pattern this year, putting downward pressure on pricing and margins. For 
existing bookings travel companies are not obliged to refund cancellations unless current government travel 
guidance changes, although there may be some leeway in deferring/making changes to existing bookings. For 
new bookings near-term demand will be soft while media hysteria and quarantine risk prevails. But unlike 
business travel (around three weeks lead time) we think leisure customers will be loath to shelve holidays 
plans, booked six weeks to six months ahead of travel. As and when perceived Coronavirus risk fades, the 
bounce back in bookings could be sharp.The industry is more rational now that it has been for years. Until the 
outbreaks in Northern Italy and Tenerife market conditions were pointing to a strong summer this year, for Dart 
in particular. Thomas Cook’s demise (and Monarch and Air Berlin before it) has removed a major competitor 
from the market (>10% market share) which, combined with benign airline industry capacity, was leading to 
firmer pricing power: positive for tour operators like Dart and TUI; mixed for OTAs like On the Beach. That said, 
this market share opportunity led most competitors to increase investment, through capacity expansion and/or 
marketing, which now presumably won’t deliver expected returns.The financial impact from Coronavirus is very 
difficult to estimate while the situation is so fluid. Airlines and tour operators have provided next to no financial 
guidance so far, and we endeavour to fine tune estimates as and when the situation becomes clearer. For, now 
we leave forecasts unchanged, but run our models against a tough downside scenario (revenue -20%) to 
stress-test balance sheets and liquidity (table overleaf). The upshot is: i) potentially big hits to profit 
expectations this year (PBT -26%-72%); ii) leverage and liquidity should be manageable for Dart, OTB and 
SSP; iii) TUI is the most operationally (Cruise exposure) and financially geared travel company in our 
coverage, but the spin-off of Hapag-Lloyd Cruises now looks prescient with a welcome injection from ~€700m 
net proceeds (expected to complete this summer).
“Travel shares have sold off aggressively (indiscriminately?) as we think the market tries to price in a ‘worst case’ 
scenario,” concludes Stifel. “Our impression is that all our travel coverage looks oversold, but we are not virologists, 
Markets not live, Tuesday 3rd March 2020
and until the situation becomes analysable we leave our ratings unchanged: Buy Dart (TP from 1800p to 1500p); 
Hold SSP (TP from 700p to 550p), On the Beach (TP from 480p to 370p), TUI (TP from 960p to 700p).”
Luckily, there’s very little corporate news around this morning to complicate the risk-on bounce narrative.  Fresnillo 
has weaker-than-expected full year results and is unchanged.             Ashtead has a powerfully dull third-
quarter update and is unchanged. Here’s RBC Capital Markets on the former:
FRES released FY19 financials that were overall a miss versus us and consensus today closing out what has 
been a challenging year for the group. FY EBITDA of $674 mn was -26% YoY -13% vs. RBCe and -9% vs. 
company compiled consensus. This fed through to lower EPS of US23c/sh -2% vs. consensus. The one bright 
spot was the dividend where US15c/sh was +11% vs. company compiled consensus at a FY yield of 1.8%. 
This was ahead of our forecast on adjustments that we, and we assume the street, had not captured. The miss 
was largely driven by higher cash costs as the group continues to battle with poor operational performance 
particularly at its core silver mines Fresnillo and Saucito. We think the market may look through this result 
somewhat given weaker Q4 production was pre-reported and the group largely reset near term expectations 
and medium term guidance at its recent CMD. However, with FRES not issuing specific cost guidance for 2020 
we think cautious commentary today around fixed costs remaining high may not be taken particularly well. 
There were no changes to the 2020 and medium term production outlook that we can see this morning 
although we expect a focus on commentary and questions around this at this morning’s analyst presentation. 
On the Juanicipio development project there was minimal new commentary today following on from the group’s 
positive announcement last week on accelerating the path to production by processing ore from the asset using 
spare capacity at the Fresnillo plant.We continue to rate FRES Sector Perform. Our site visit to the group’s 
core silver operations and the capital markets day in December showed that the group has a credible plan in 
place to turn around its operations. However, we would wait for at least a few quarters of improved delivery 
from management before stepping into shares. Today’s results demonstrate that this delivery has not begun 
yet and our initial take on the new commentary today is that the outlook remains cautious near term. Given this, 
we think shares may struggle to perform vs. precious metal peers.
And here’s Peel Hunt Jefferies on the latter:
3Q EPS was in line with our estimates. The group continues to grow at rates above the market and competition 
albeit with some headroom in utilisation. We moderate US sunbelt growth to 6% in FY21 which drives EPS 
downgrades of 1-2%. New capex guidance for FY21 is consistent with our expectations and FCF increases to 
£745m in FY20 (2x the best year previously) and to £1.4bn in FY21 - a 13% FCF yield. With best in class 
execution and flexibility reiterate Buy.3Q EPS in line with our estimates and 1% below consensus. 3Q adj 
PBT/EPS of £257m/42.3p was 1% below a limited company consensus (£261m42.6p) and in line with our 
estimates (£256m/42.5p). 3Q rental revenue growth remained strong at Sunbelt US, at 9% (5% organic, 4% 
bolt-ons) driven by Specialty, which grew at c11% in 3Q (3x the market rate) with General Tool +6% (2x market 
rate). Group EBITDA margins were 44.7% (JEFe: 44.9%) pre-IFRS16 with US in line, Canada better than 
expected and UK softer.EPS forecasts tweaked down 1-2%. The outlook statement points to broadly 
unchanged estimates: “Although construction markets are moderating, we expect results to be in line with 
expectations”. For FY20, plan rental revenue growth continues to be 11-15%, with organic 9-12% (3Q20: 5%) 
and bolt-ons 2-3% (3Q20: 4%) although we note the interplay as bolt-ons reduce the need for greenfields. 
February rental revenue growth was 7.5%. We moderate sunbelt US growth to 7% in 4Q (from 10%) and to 6% 
in FY21 (from 8%). The net result is a 1% downgrade to FY20F EPS and a 2% downgrade to FY21F 
EPS.£500m buyback for FY21, capex at lower end of range. With the industry looking modestly over-fleeted 
and slowing rates of growth into stable construction markets, lower capex is expected. Gross capex guidance 
for FY20 is reduced from £1.43-1.60bn to £1.39-1.45bn and with disposals at £270m from £160-190m, net 
capex guidance is reduced from £1.27-1.41bn to £1.12-1.18bn. Into FY21 the guidance is £1.11-1.29bn (JEFe: 
£1.14bn) of gross and £0.81-0.99bn (JEFe: £0.81bn) of net capex. £376m of the £500m buyback has been 
completed and another £500m buyback for FY21 has been formalised.Expect improved fleet absorbtion in 
coming quarters. At Sunbelt US, 3Q rental revenue growth was 9% (JEFe: 10%, 2Q: 12%) driven mainly by 
fleet on rent, with rates flat reported and just ahead of the prior year adjusted for hurricanes. 3Q EBITDA 
margins were -20bps to 47.3% (JEFe: 47.5%) pre-IFRS16 due to mix given the rate of new startups and 
acquisitions. Drop through was c50% pre-IFRS16 (rental only) with dollar utilisation at 53% (3Q19: 55%). 
Markets not live, Tuesday 3rd March 2020
General Tool utilisation looks a point or two off the PY consistent with industry trends while Specialty utilisation 
is now above the non-hurricane comp year.UK optimisation and Canadian growth. Rental revenue growth in 
Canada was 35% (JEFe: 20%) of which 11% was organic consistent with the rest of the year, with EBITDA 
margins +200bps YOY to 34.4% (JEFe: 32.0%). In the UK, rental revenue growth was -1% (JEFe: -2%), with 
the business on track for £100m+ of FCF.
 Aggreko’s up 6 per cent or thereabouts at pixel on better-than-expected full years and unchanged 2020 
guidance, with the generator hire specialist saying nearly nothing about the chances of event cancellations. (Note: 
an earlier cut of today’s MnL put a Peel Hunt Aggreko note under the Ashtead bit. Apologies to both companies, 
and to the broker, and to you valued reader.)
Here’s one of those UBS Q&As to summarise:
Q: How did the results compare vs expectations?A: Operating profit came in +2% ahead of consensus. DPS 
increased +2% y/y (vs expectations of flat dividend growth in FY'19).Q: What were the most noteworthy areas 
in the results?A: Underlying profit growth of +13% y/y reflects a strong Rental Solutions (+22%); softer Power 
Solutions Industrial, chiefly in Eurasia (-7%); and improved Power Solutions Utility (+21%, reflecting cost 
savings). Improved cash collection in Utility drove a £107m working capital inflow for FY'19. ND/EBITDA ended 
the year at 1.0x, down from 1.3x despite the c£100m headwind from IFRS 16.Q: Has the company's 
outlook/guidance changed?A: Aggreko has reiterated its mid-teens ROCE target for 2020 (it is monitoring the 
potential impact of coronavirus on the Tokyo games – now expected to be a $250m rev. contract – and wider 
Group). The FX headwind on PBT is now -8% (vs -4% at 9M).Q: How would we expect investors to react?A: 
Slightly positive; good results imply little change to consensus despite Covid-19/FX risks.
And here’s Peel Hunt: 
[Aggreko’s] underlying FY20 revenues -1% (H1 -4%) with reported revenues -8% (H1-10%). Underlying EBITA 
+13% (H1 +12%) to £241m (PHe £238m. Utility bad debt provision is slightly reduced at $81m (vs $83m). Net 
debt is materially better at £584m (PHe £667m), representing ND/EBITDA of 1.0x. Significant improvement in 
receivables (£78m) that should be retained.ROCE has increased to 11.2% from 10.3% (ex currency increased 
1.1pp). Capex £217m (including fleet capex of £189m vs £196m) vs PHe £210m. Rental Solutions (48% 
FY20E EBITA) underlying revs -1% with North America +5% (H1+7%). This was driven by strong oil and gas-
related activity as well as building and construction. Margins have improved from 12.9% to 15.9% given the 
growth and favourable mix. ROCE improved to 16.7% from 14.7%. Power Solutions Industrial (36% FY20 
EBITA) revenues +2% with a weaker Eurasia resulting in EBITA reducing to 7% to £64m (underlying ROCE 
reduced 0.2pp to 10.4%. Power Solutions Utility (16% EBITA) underlying revs fell 5%, reflecting repricing and 
off hires. EBITA fell from £46m to £43m (though +21% on underlying). ROCE remains under considerable 
pressure (5.8% from 6.2%). Divisional order intake 497 MW (vs 398 MW), noting also MW on hire has reduced 
10%.The FY20 outlook is in line with market expectations, with the aspiration to deliver ‘mid-teens’ ROCE 
intact. This benefits from the Olympic Games ($200m revenues) and ongoing self help. We expect more insight 
on business priorities in August. We maintain our Dec 20 PBT of £241.5m (cons £244m, with range £232m-
£252m) to give EPS of 60.6p.Valuation. Post recent market falls the shares are trading on 11.1x Dec 20, 
implying an EV/IC of 1.2x, which is looking fairly valued given the near-term challenges, returns, competitive 
and structural pressures. However, we continue to see a risk of modest relative underperformance.
How irrelevant is Kantar and Nielsen UK supermarket market share data for February? Probably quite 
irrelevant, given it won’t capture either the recent consumer confidence knock or the recent bulk buying of gin and 
toilet roll. Clive Black at Shore can always be trusted to find something to say, however: 
After a grim January and a tough Q4 CY2019, trading momentum for the British supermarkets seems to have 
tickled up a little in February, taking Kantar and Nielsen data at face value; 1.4% and 0.7% respectively for the 
four weeks (4W to late February). In storm affected trading conditions, pre any Coronavirus impact, we see this 
uptick mirroring the improvement in UK consumer confidence, measured by GfK NOP, and, as such, is a 
welcome positive injection for sector sentiment. Of the majors it is Sainsbury’s that is seemingly delivering the 
strongest trading momentum with improvements recorded across the board bar Aldi GB, where the run-rate 
has decidedly cooled, leading us to suggest with its new stores in-tow, falling like-for-like (LFL) sales (its 
Markets not live, Tuesday 3rd March 2020
German rival Lidl is punching the bag hardest with 10%+ growth). Calm and common sense is necessary 
around Coronavirus to us, scaremongering is genuinely harmful at this time. Whilst so, it is an uncertainty for 
the UK economy and policy measures will be monitored as to their impact at a macro and micro level for the 
sector. For now, though, we look into March, when surely the weather cannot become any worse, with growing 
sector confidence.The tide rises from its low point: Recent months have been described by us as a grind for the 
UK supermarkets, manifested in somewhat dull share price performances before a bit of an arguably irrational 
rout around the equity market panic surrounding Coronavirus, particularly with respect to the magnitude of the 
markdown for Morrisons’ equity, we should add. As such, we are pleased to see what Nielsen calls ‘green 
shoots of recovery’ for February 2020; reporting a 0.7% market growth (minus 2.9% for general merchandise). 
All boats rise, bar Aldi GB: As maybe expected, with a rising tide, ‘most boats float’ and so we see improving 
sales momentum month-on-month implied for all of the major players bar Aldi GB, where Nielsen records 12W 
sales growth of just 3.1%; with a strong store opening programme, c6% per annum, this implies what could be 
notably weaker (negative) LFL sales at this fascia; Lidl powers on as the strongest UK player with 10.5% sales 
growth. Sainsbury is driving its top line: Fair play to Messrs Coupe & Roberts at ‘JS’ where growth is seemingly 
coming through (12W, 0.6%, Nielsen), perhaps helping the delivery of FY2020 forecasts where we have been 
chipping back at the bottom-line. It is also pleasing to see positive momentum at M&S (12W, 1.3%) whilst 
negative but improving trends are recorded for Asda (minus 0.8%), Morrisons (-1.8%), so still lagging, and 
Tesco UK (-0.4%); Waitrose also lags at -1.3% whilst the middle ground gains share, notably the Coop 
(+2.4%). More uncertainty? At the time of writing COVID 19 is the national conversation. Like the PM, we 
expect the virus to spread in the UK, but it can also still be sensibly managed. Scaremongering is not helpful. If 
the situation’ deteriorates’, we expect the food system to react rationally and for the nation to be fed; bar 
surface cleaners (+8%, Nielsen) there is no impact in this dataset from the virus; ambient, frozen and HPC may 
be stimulated here on.
 4imprint, the rather hyped US-focused maker of promotional pens and bags and stuff like that, is leading 
the FTSE 250 gainers on full-year results that Liberum can summarise:
FY results in line with expectations with 17% organic revenue growth. We maintain our estimates at this stage, 
despite strong current trading due to the uncertainty on Coronavirus. 4imprint is well on its way to its strategic 
goal of $1bn of sales by 2022 and we expect this could be revised at the interims. Net cash at the FY results 
was $41.1m, up from $27.5m at the year-end. We reduce our FY19 net cash estimate from $58m to $41m 
mainly due capex and pension contributions. Order book intake up 14% and average order values have 
continued to increase. Coronavirus may disrupt supply chains given that 60% of products originate from China. 
US recession risk has increased after the Coronavirus outbreak and 4imprint is exposed. The backward looking 
ASI report indicates a strong 2019, with market share gains for the larger players. Protectionism continues to 
be a risk, although the Phase 1 deal in January shows some progress. TP from 3300p to 2700p and we remain 
a HOLD.
Is that enough? Everything-up market days are as tedious to write about as they are to read about. We’ve not 
mentioned Huntsworth, the healthcare PR agency, which has agreed to a  £400m takeover by Clayton, Dubilier & 
Rice. ... Nor have we mentioned Sirius Minerals, whose             bizarre shareholder vote on the Anglo takeover gets 
the             liveblog treatment over at Proactive. ... There’s another NMC Health RNS regarding the continuing 
efforts to account for             BR Shetty’s shares. .... NMC, Tui and Kingfisher are on the list of possible FTSE 100 
exits at             the Wednesday rejig (decided on today’s closing prices). .... Bernie Arnault’s             in the bidding 
for The Ritz, The Times says. .... And Bloomberg has a surprisingly entertaining bit about “             how the rich are 
preparing for the coronavirus”. 
What are we missing, reader? Tell us below.
Load-Date: March 3, 2020
End of Document
Airline industry body Iata warns on collapse in passenger numbers
Airline industry body Iata warns on collapse in passenger numbers
 
FT.com
March 2, 2020 Monday 6:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 548 words
Byline: Bethan Staton and Sarah Provan in London
Body
The coronavirus epidemic has forced British Airways and Ryanair to cancel hundreds of flights, as the airlines 
industry body warned about the impact of a collapse in passenger numbers.
BA announced on Monday it would cancel more than 200 flights to countries including Italy, Germany and the USA 
“to match reduced demand due to the continuing coronavirus issue”. Ryanair said it was cutting short-haul flights to 
Italy by up to 25 per cent, mostly on routes to northern Italy. 
The cancellations follow similar moves by Lufthansa and easyJet.
Coronavirus has already resulted in “serious declines in demand”, according to the International Air Transport 
Association. Bookings have fallen and airlines are responding by giving staff unpaid leave, freezing pay and 
grounding aircraft, it said. 
One airline reported that bookings for flights to Italy had dropped to zero while refunds were growing. Another cited 
a 26 per cent reduction across its entire market compared with last year. Some told Iata that 50 per cent of 
passengers were not showing up to fly on several routes. 
Given the “extraordinary circumstances” of the outbreak, Iata on Monday  asked regulators to suspend rules that 
mean carriers lose airport landing and take-off slots if they do not use them for 80 per cent of the time. 
Widespread cancellations would mean airlines stood to lose their slots or be forced to run empty services to keep 
their allocations, the body said. 
Airline industry body Iata warns on collapse in passenger numbers
Read more about the coronavirus impact
•
The latest figures as the outbreak spreads
•
How far will it spread
•
How dangerous is the coronavirus and how does it spread
Subscribers can  use myFT to follow the latest ‘coronavirus’ coverage
Alexandre de Juniac, Iata director-general, said “traffic has collapsed on key Asian routes and . . . this is rippling 
throughout air transport network globally”.
“It’s essential that the regulatory community work with us to ensure airlines are able to operate in the most 
sustainable manner, both economically and environmentally, to alleviate the worst impacts of the crisis.” 
Airports Coordination Limited, which oversees slot allocation for the UK, said it would relax the rules on flights to 
and from mainland China and Hong Kong. 
In recent weeks, a number of airlines have cut flights to virus-hit areas, and some have warned that the sharp drop 
in demand is likely to hit earnings in the short term. 
Lufthansa Group and IAG, which owns British Airways, have reduced flights to Hong Kong, Seoul and Italy in 
response to reduced demand, and Austrian Airlines has cut flights to Italy by 40 per cent. 
Lufthansa and IAG have also suspended all flights to mainland China. 
Ryanair said it was “far too early to speculate” on the effect of the outbreak on earnings, but that it did not expect 
cancellations to have a material impact in the current year. 
CEO Michael O’Leary said flights were heavily booked over the next two weeks but there had “been a notable drop” 
in bookings from the end of March into April. “It makes sense to selectively prune our schedule to and from those 
airports where travel has been most affected,” he said. 
Andrew Charlton, an aviation analyst, said: “The deeper and longer this goes, the longer it’s going to take to climb 
out . . . But it’s impossible to know how grim it’s going to get.”
Load-Date: March 3, 2020
End of Document
Coronavirus/travel: not flying
Coronavirus/travel: not flying
 
FT.com
February 28, 2020 Friday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 399 words
Body
Profit warnings from airlines are becoming as ubiquitous as delayed flights. Britain’s  IAG and easyJet are the latest 
to pile in, warning of coronavirus-stunted demand and further flight cancellations. They follow Hong Kong’s             
Cathay Pacific, and will be followed by others in turn.
The travel industry is notoriously sensitive: terrorism, disease, financial crises and erupting volcanoes have all taken 
their toll. It is also heavily indebted. Airlines last year had roughly 4.5 times as much net debt as they earned at 
operating level, trade body  Iata estimated. 
German holidays group Tui  held net debt of €5bn at the end of the first quarter. This is 2.6 times forecast ebitda, 
but five times the level of earnings when economies were weak in 2012. According to S&P, cruise group Carnival’s 
$11bn net debt is double 2020 forecasts for ebitda made before the epidemic spread. The price of insuring against 
bond defaults has spiked for both groups.
Among European airlines Air France-KLM flies highest with net debt/ebitda of 1.5 times. IAG is close behind. 
Discount airlines easyJet and Ryanair carry far lighter loads.
The coronavirus will expand these numbers by emptying seats on planes and beds in hotels. Iata expects a 
$29.3bn dent in airlines’ revenues. China, tourism’s growth engine, is in lockdown; the island of  Bali has reported 
no cases but had 40,000 bookings pulled in the past few weeks. Analysts are scratching industry earnings 
estimates lower.
Financially-weak airlines and travel businesses may not survive the outbreak in their current form. The field has 
already been culled — Thomas Cook, India’s Jet Airways, the UK’s Monarch and Air Berlin have closed down or 
Coronavirus/travel: not flying
sought protection from creditors. Governments may step in; after 9/11, US airlines were able to tap $15bn of cash 
and loans. 
This time round, governments should think twice before providing bailouts. The world airline industry has too much 
capacity and is highly polluting. It needs a clear out. The benefit to capital allocation does not of course compensate 
for the human tragedy of the epidemic. Meanwhile, workers forced to substitute videoconferencing for business 
travel may find it works surprisingly well. Hygiene aside, it spares you jet lag.
The Lex team is interested in hearing more from readers. Please tell us what you think of airline and travel stocks in 
the comments section below.
Load-Date: March 3, 2020
End of Document
Sports Direct puts boot into JD Sports over Footasylum tie-up
Sports Direct puts boot into JD Sports over Footasylum tie-up
 
FT.com
February 27, 2020 Thursday 7:11 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 484 words
Byline: Jonathan Eley in London
Body
Sports Direct has suggested that the UK competition regulator appoint a trustee to sell Footasylum to an industry 
bidder, such as itself, rather than leave its bitter rival JD Sports to run a disposal process.
The Competition and Markets Authority ruled earlier this month that the already-completed takeover of Footasylum 
by JD Sports was likely to lead to less competition, and said selling Footasylum “may be the only way of addressing 
these concerns”.
In documents published in response to the CMA’s preliminary report, “company A” said any acquirer of Footasylum 
should be independent of JD Sports, capable of competing in the relevant markets and not likely to give rise to 
further competition concerns.
Two people briefed on the process confirmed that “company A” was Sports Direct, the sportswear empire founded 
and run by Mike Ashley — which would meet all of the criteria outlined.
It has consistently argued that the combination of JD and Footasylum would be anti-competitive because of JD 
Sports’ considerable influence with footwear brands such as Nike and Adidas.
“A critical factor in assessing a purchaser’s capability to operate Footasylum as an effective national multichannel 
retailer and a true competitive force . . . is its ability to ensure that Footasylum continues to have adequate access 
to supplies of Nike and Adidas ‘must-have’ footwear and apparel products,” it said. 
Sports Direct puts boot into JD Sports over Footasylum tie-up
Selling to a buyer without such clout “would achieve the same outcome that [JD Sports] sought to achieve through 
its acquisition of Footasylum — eliminate one of its closest competitors”.
JD Sports, led since 2004 by executive chairman Peter Cowgill, has previously said that without its intervention 
Footasylum would have collapsed.
Although Sports Direct has more than 400 stores in the UK, the CMA said in its report that its wider product range 
and discount image meant it was less of a competitive constraint on JD in footwear than an independent 
Footasylum with fewer than 100 stores.
US-listed Foot Locker, which has 70 stores in the UK, was also regarded as a greater competitive threat to JD than 
Sports Direct, according to the CMA.
Sports Direct further suggested that the CMA appoint a “divestiture trustee” to run a Footasylum disposal process 
because JD Sports would not have sufficient incentive to complete a sale quickly. 
Divestiture trustees are a rarely used feature of the UK competition regime. According to lawyers, the last occasion 
on which the CMA ordered one be appointed was to oversee the sale of Ryanair’s 29.8 per cent in Aer Lingus in 
2014.
In its own response to the CMA, JD Sports said it “categorically rejects” the notion that the takeover reduces 
competition and that it “firmly believes that no remedial action is required”.
Sports Direct did not respond to a request for comment. JD Sports declined to comment. The CMA said it did not 
comment on investigations still in progress.
Load-Date: February 27, 2020
End of Document
Diageo’s coronavirus disclosure creates as much doubt as clarity
Diageo’s coronavirus disclosure creates as much doubt as clarity
 
FT.com
February 26, 2020 Wednesday 6:37 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 784 words
Byline: Kate Burgess
Body
Call it planning or planicking, companies across the City are making contingencies for workers forced by 
coronavirus fears to stay home. 
Chevron, the US oil group, has sent home 300 staff from Canary Wharf. Meanwhile, drinks group Diageo and 
airport caterer SSP have outlined what the illness is costing them in China. They are the first UK-headquartered 
companies to put hard numbers on the impact of the biggest quarantine of people in the world’s largest industrial 
economy. 
Neither won a prize for being first out of the traps. Shares in both fell on Wednesday. Coronavirus will test the thesis 
that disclosure aids price discovery and reduces volatility. 
Diageo on Wednesday said Covid-19 will reduce net sales — £12.9bn in total last year — by up to £325m and 
operating profits by up to £200m this year. Containment is hitting sales of Baijiu, the white spirit drunk at Chinese 
banquets to cries of ganbai. 
Shares in SSP  fell 5 per cent when it highlighted the 90 per cent drop in air passenger numbers in China. In 
February its Asia revenues — less than a tenth of the total — halved year-on-year, it said. 
Analysts are reassessing the risk to travel in Europe and the US. SSP’s shares have fallen sharply in the past 
fortnight, as have those in airline and travel groups easyJet, Ryanair and Tui. JPMorgan Cazenove worries about a 
further derating.
Diageo’s coronavirus disclosure creates as much doubt as clarity
Shares in restaurants and distributors of products passed from hand to hand and face to face will continue to 
oscillate. The winners in coming months are not obvious. Casino stocks have suffered. But drug companies, often 
deemed to be defensive, rarely emerge triumphant from health crises. They hit the same supply-chain blockages as 
others and can’t get the right drugs to patients in time and at a profit. Rubber gloves, face masks and hand 
sanitisers make up small parts of the portfolios of Reckitt Benckiser and Bunzl, whose fortunes are tied more 
broadly to global growth. 
The effects of the coronavirus epidemic will be two-fold. The first, underlined by Diageo and SSP, is on consumers. 
Workers stay at home and cancel get-togethers. Machines stop. Trade and supply chains back up.
Then there is the effect on economic growth. It is not clear , said miner Rio Tinto on Wednesday, whether the 
recovery will be “L-shaped or V-shaped”. That depends on the ability of people to return to work and the shape of 
government stimuli. Throughout this, share prices will be buffeted by bursts of data that compound uncertainty.
Investors dig Unite 
Leaky roofs and peeling walls in  student digs used to be a point of pride, not just a rite of passage. 
No more. Nearly 60 per cent of accommodation is now en suite, a 2018 survey by charity Unipol found. Higher 
education now commands a premium price. So too does student property: annual rent increases have outstripped 
inflation. 
One UK provider of purpose-built student accommodation (PBSA), The Unite Group, has a market cap of £4.5bn. 
Another, IQ Group, has just been bought by Blackstone for £4.7bn. 
Those are valuations full enough to make other investors pause. Unite trades at a 47 per cent premium to net asset 
value. IQ has less than 40 per cent the number of beds, yet commands a higher price because of its London focus. 
The rapid expansion of UK higher education means there is a shortage of places for students to live. Property 
market reforms that are pushing out non-professional landlords have exacerbated the problem. Student numbers 
are also still going up. Doubters worry Brexit will scare off international students. But the government, seeking to 
promote “global Britain”, is trying to increase their number by a quarter over the next decade. 
Large-scale providers that can secure quality sites while controlling costs have been the beneficiaries. Universities 
fill some of that gap themselves, through partnerships with developers. But when the average student can spend 
almost three-quarters of a maintenance loan package on rent, universities are more vulnerable than private 
providers to student rent strikes. Many are having to promise to make more affordable accommodation available. 
Unite and IQ between them have 102,000 beds, many of them in prime sites near prestigious Russell Group 
universities. That still leaves scope to expand. Property group Knight Frank estimates that even with a healthy 
pipeline of 25,000 PBSA beds being delivered to the market a year, full-time students outweigh available rooms by 
3:1. A softening in London property prices gives Unite an opportunity to increase its exposure to the capital’s 
students. 
So long as there are posh parents willing to pony up, IQ and Unite are worth the premium. 
Unite: cat.rutterpooley@ft.com
Kate.burgess@ft.com
Load-Date: February 27, 2020
End of Document
European shares/coronavirus: fright club
European shares/coronavirus: fright club
 
FT.com
February 25, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 427 words
Body
Panic spreads faster than a pandemic. That might not make it irrational. Signs that the coronavirus is going global 
sent  share prices plummeting this week. But equity valuations are stretched — the Stoxx Europe 600 reached a 
record high last week. Further falls are on the cards if, as seems likely, the outbreak worsens. 
True, there are risks in joining the stampede. Legendary investor Warren Buffett this week described the outbreak 
as “scary stuff” but cautioned against selling on the headlines. The Sars outbreak of 2002-03 showed that prices 
can bounce back sharply once an infection subsides.
But already Covid-19 has infected 10 times as many people as Sars did and killed more than three times as many 
people. China is a far bigger part of global production and consumption than was the case in 2003. The hit to global 
GDP will be even worse if Covid-19 is not confined to Asia.  
 European  travel stocks have borne the brunt this week. Italy, one of the continent’s biggest short-haul 
destinations, is a hot spot for the disease, with 283 confirmed cases and seven deaths. 
Hotel groups were hammered. Accor, which has 86 hotels in Italy, more than most peers. Its market value fell about 
8 per cent. Even worse hit was easyJet, down 17 per cent. Flights to southern Europe account for a third of its 
revenue. Ryanair, which earns a fifth of its sales from flights to Italy, was close behind.
The Italian outbreak is in the north, its industrial heartland. Disruption to supply chains could be an issue. As in 
China, small companies play an important role. They too might end up perilously strapped for cash. Italy faces a 
rising likelihood of a  recession. All this would be bad news for Europe’s banks too: more bad loans, less hope of 
needed rate rises.
European shares/coronavirus: fright club
China’s experience suggests other losers and winners. Gambling operators, property developers, restaurants and 
sellers of big-ticket items have been hit. Online education companies, surgical mask makers and games designers 
are potential beneficiaries. 
The defensive merits of healthcare and certain online services have been evident. Online education companies 
have been in demand, as forced closures of schools unleash a bevy of home learning.
 Nervous investors can also look to the central banks for support. Extra liquidity will stimulate demand. But that will 
not be enough to immunise portfolios from the virus. Expect safe havens such as gold, dollars and Treasuries to 
stay in demand. 
Our popular newsletter for premium subscribers Best of Lex is published twice weekly. Please sign up  here
Load-Date: February 25, 2020
End of Document
Airline stocks plunge as coronavirus hits Italy
Airline stocks plunge as coronavirus hits Italy
 
FT.com
February 24, 2020 Monday 2:35 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 512 words
Byline: Alice Hancock
Body
EasyJet and Ryanair led a plunge in European airline shares on Monday, as an outbreak of coronavirus in Italy 
ignited fears that travel across the continent will grind to a halt.
The airlines and hotel sectors most exposed to Europe were the hardest hit on a day marked by steep falls on stock 
markets from London to Milan. By early afternoon in London easyJet shares were down 15 per cent, Ryanair stock 
had dropped 12 per cent and Accor, one of Europe’s largest hotel groups, was down 6.3 per cent.
“What had been priced in by the market so far was weakness in China and a little bit of spillover into Asia Pacific 
from concerns about Chinese tourists not travelling so much,” said Harry Martin, a leisure analyst at Bernstein. “But 
today the panic is if we are going to have a global slowdown in travel.”
The concern in markets came even as Brussels said it had no plans to suspend the continent’s Schengen free 
travel zone and warned against a “panic” reaction to the news that Italian authorities had quarantined at least 10 
towns in the north of the country.
The threat of disruption to European travel comes on top of the slowdown hoteliers and airlines have faced in 
China, the epicentre of a virus that has already claimed more than 2,500 lives.
“If [coronavirus] spreads further — say more widely into Europe — then we believe travel and lodging companies 
would be among the first to experience subdued earnings and cash flows,” analysts at rating agency S&P Global 
noted.
Airline stocks plunge as coronavirus hits Italy
However, investors were not waiting to find out as European carriers were subjected to heavy selling. Shares in 
both IAG, the parent company of British Airways, and Air France-KLM were each down 10 per cent. Norwegian Air 
suffered an 8 per cent drop. 
The International Air Transport Association warned last week that the virus would inflict a $1bn hit on airline 
industry’s revenues, as it scrapped its forecast that global passenger numbers would rise this year.
InterContinental and Accor were punished hardest among hoteliers, as investors targeted those companies with 
significant exposure to Europe. InterContinental generates about 30 per cent of its revenues in Europe, while Accor 
relied on the continent for more than half its sales last year.
Tour operators did not escape, either. Shares in Tui, the world’s largest tour operator, fell almost 11 per cent, while 
those in rival Carnival were down 6 per cent. 
Travel industry executives said they were awaiting further guidance from the World Health Organization, pointing to 
a sharp rebound the market enjoyed in 2003 when the SARS virus was contained.
Kevin Kopelman, an equity analyst at the investment bank Cowen, said that affected regions began to recover three 
to four months after the first report of SARS and that the market returned to “pre-outbreak levels” later the same 
year.
Read more about the coronavirus impact
•
The latest figures as the outbreak spreads
•
How far will it spread
•
What does coronavirus do if you catch it
Subscribers can  use myFT to follow the latest ‘coronavirus’ coverage
Additional reporting by Bethan Stanton
Load-Date: February 25, 2020
End of Document
Global stocks have worst day in two years as coronavirus fears spread
Global stocks have worst day in two years as coronavirus fears spread
 
FT.com
February 24, 2020 Monday 11:23 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 714 words
Byline: FT reporters
Body
Global stocks had their worst day in two years as new coronavirus cases outside China dashed hopes that the 
outbreak had been contained and raised fears of slowing global growth.
Following steep declines in Asia and Europe, the benchmark S&P 500 plunged 3.4 per cent, erasing its gains for 
the year in its biggest fall since trade tensions rattled markets in February 2018. The FTSE All-World index lost 3 
per cent.
Investors flocked to the safety of government debt, pushing the yield on the US 10-year Treasury bond down 10.2 
basis points to 1.369 per cent, just above its record low, as expectations grew that the Federal Reserve would be 
pushed to cut interest rates by April.
Energy stocks led the stock market decline, driven by a weakening oil price, followed by technology shares. 
Advanced Micro Devices dropped 7.8 per cent amid concerns the outbreak would disrupt computer-chip supply 
chains.
Transport stocks were also battered, with American Airlines, Delta and FedEx all dropping more than 5 per cent, 
while the KBW index of US banks fell 3.6 per cent — its worth day since August.
President Donald Trump responded by tweeting that the coronavirus was “very much under control in the USA”, 
adding: “Stock Market starting to look very good to me!”
Global stocks have worst day in two years as coronavirus fears spread
Earlier, European bourses had borne the brunt of the sell-off on fears about the impact of the virus on the global 
economy. UK stocks had their worst day for five years and Italy’s MIB index dropped 5.4 per cent in its largest fall 
since 2016.
“This is no longer solely an Asia issue,” said Robert Carnell, chief Asia-Pacific economist at ING.
In Europe, the continent-wide Stoxx 600 fell 3.8 per cent, while the UK’s FTSE 100 dropped 3.3 per cent. Airlines 
and tour operators were hit hard, with shares in easyJet falling 17 per cent and Ryanair sliding 13 per cent. 
This followed heavy falls in Asia where Seoul’s Kospi index fell 3.9 per cent, its worst day since late 2018.
The market turmoil came after new evidence that the virus was spreading globally. Italy imposed a quarantine 
across at least 10 towns over the weekend in an effort to contain the biggest outbreak of the virus outside Asia, with 
229 confirmed infections and six deaths. 
South Korean authorities reported 231 new cases of the virus, bringing the total number of infections to 833. The 
government added it had put 7,000 troops under quarantine after 11 had tested positive for the virus. 
Iran said there had been 12 deaths and 61 confirmed coronavirus cases in the country, a sharp rise from the eight 
fatalities and 43 infected patients it reported a day earlier. Turkey closed its borders with Iran, while Iraq, 
Afghanistan, Armenia and Pakistan have imposed restrictions on border crossings and trade.
Despite the outbreak in Italy, EU authorities said there were no plans to suspend travel across the 26-country 
Schengen area of visa-free travel. 
“We need to take this situation extremely seriously — but we must not give in to panic and of course to 
disinformation,” said Stella Kyriakides, the EU’s health commissioner. 
Bruce Aylward, head of the World Health Organization team of foreign experts in China, praised the country’s 
response to the crisis, telling a press briefing in Beijing that authorities had implemented “the only successful 
measures we have seen”. He said the turning point in Wuhan, the centre of the outbreak, had been reached, with 
more people leaving hospital than going in. 
However, concerns about the outbreak have continued to weigh on commodities. 
The price of Brent crude, the global oil marker, fell 4 per cent to $56.19 a barrel. Gold rallied 1 per cent to $1,659.57 
per troy ounce. The activity sent the Cboe Vix index that measures US equity volatility — commonly known as Wall 
Street’s “fear gauge” — to 25, its highest level since January last year. The dollar ended the day flat. 
Read more about the coronavirus impact
•
Coronavirus mapped: the latest figures as the outbreak spreads
•
Is Covid-19 getting deadlier?
•
What does coronavirus do if you catch it
Subscribers can  use myFT to follow the latest coronavirus coverage
Reporting by Daniel Shane in Hong Kong, Sun Yu in Beijing, Tom Mitchell in Singapore and Adam Samson, Katie 
Martin and Joe Rennison in London, Michael Peel in Brussels and Richard Henderson in New York 
Load-Date: February 25, 2020
End of Document
Markets face fresh jolt of coronavirus nerves
Markets face fresh jolt of coronavirus nerves
 
FT.com
February 24, 2020 Monday 3:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 545 words
Byline: Katie Martin
Body
That funny smell in the air is the unmistakable odour of screeching brakes and hot tyres skidding to an abrupt stop.
For weeks, the broad assumption among investors has been that, as far as markets are concerned, the coronavirus 
that originated in China is a real but peripheral worry, an unexpected hiccup in what will otherwise prove to be a 
decent if unspectacular year for stocks.
Goldman Sachs assured clients less than two weeks ago that virus concerns were fading. Google searches for the 
term were tailing off, it said, which had “historically marked the trough in risky assets”. 
The US bank was not alone, far from it, and it went on to warn about potential complacency in markets just a few 
days later. Still, its initial optimism was widespread, with analysts modelling other outbreaks, such as Sars, swine flu 
and Zika, to guess that this virus too would pass quickly and without presenting undue concern for investors. 
As recently as Friday, BlackRock was bristling at the nervous rally in US government bonds, saying the decline in 
30-year Treasury yields so far this year was excessive. Chief investment officer Rick Rieder said he was trimming 
exposure to long-dated Treasuries after the yield dropped under 1.9 per cent. “With bad news, everyone goes one 
way,” he said. “You want to try to be on the other side of it.”
Since then, the yield has fallen further, to 1.82 per cent. 
Read more about the coronavirus impact
•
The latest figures as the outbreak spreads
Markets face fresh jolt of coronavirus nerves
•
How far will it spread
•
What does coronavirus do if you catch it
Subscribers can  use myFT to follow the latest ‘coronavirus’ coverage
Investor nerves were reawakened over the weekend, when the virus prompted Italy to quarantine at least 10 towns 
in the northern regions that produce about half of the country’s economic output, according to calculations by 
Citigroup. “The impact on first-quarter GDP is likely to be large, even if containment measures last only for one 
week,” Citi said on Monday, adding that it doubted the disruption would be so short. 
An acceleration of cases in South Korea and Iran is also stirring fears that the virus could be running out of control.
Italian stocks have led declines, dropping by nearly 6 per cent on Monday. UK stocks also fell by nearly 4 per cent, 
with airlines feeling a heavy strain: easyJet sank 15 per cent, while Ryanair fell 12 per cent. Gold continues to rally 
hard, while oil prices are stumbling again.
The cavalry is expected in the form of central banks, which have repeatedly stepped up to soothe scary drops in 
markets ever since the financial crisis. Over the weekend Haruhiko Kuroda, the Bank of Japan’s governor, was 
clear that he was watching how the virus spread and what economic effect it had. He said he was “well prepared” to 
act if needed. 
This is a noble effort, and few doubt it will provide at least temporary relief to financial markets. The expectation 
alone of monetary assistance may already be softening the blow. But anyone who can clearly articulate how easier 
policy can fix an economic pullback based on deaths, grounded flights, closed factories and ghost cities is very 
welcome to get in touch.
Letter in response to this article:
Virus reveals the ecology of global economic life / From Charles Gore, Brighton, E Sussex, UK
Load-Date: March 6, 2020
End of Document
Letter: Repercussions for UK airports’ expansion plans
Letter: Repercussions for UK airports’ expansion plans
 
FT.com
February 5, 2020 Wednesday 1:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 165 words
Body
I agree with Professor Ira Sohn ( Letters, February 3) regarding the possibility of relegating the 737 Max to the role 
of cargo carrier. This is what happened after the DC10/MD11 was involved in several serious accidents.
However, the Max disasters are more serious in that many UK airports are basing their expansion plans on the new 
breed of twin-engined single-aisle aircraft such as the Boeing Max and Airbus 320/321 neo, LR and XLR series. 
Liverpool John Lennon airport (LJLA) is an example of such an expansion plan, together with an extended runway 
proposal. Ryanair, a principal LJLA carrier, has ordered 135 Max 200s — a 197-seat variation of the Max 8 — and 
clearly cannot utilise the 737-800s ad infinitum.
Apart from drastic revisions of master plans, airports such as LJLA will have to appreciate that residents within take-
off or approach paths will not be happy with the Max operating from their airports, irrespective of cargo or 
passenger loads.
Dr Lawrence Jones
Liverpool, UK
Load-Date: February 5, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair faces more disruption over latest Boeing Max delays
Ryanair faces more disruption over latest Boeing Max delays
 
FT.com
February 3, 2020 Monday 7:19 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 635 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley in Dublin
Body
Ryanair has warned of further disruption from delayed deliveries of Boeing 737 Max jets it had ordered, saying it will 
not receive any of them in time for the peak summer season and is pushing back its customer growth targets by up 
to two years.
Regulators grounded the Max after two fatal crashes and Boeing is still struggling to win approval for its return to 
use. The Max is seen as a game-changer for airlines because it carries 4 per cent more passengers and uses 16 
per cent less fuel.
Ryanair has repeatedly extended its Max delivery timetable. At its quarterly results on Monday, it said it would not 
receive the first planes until September or October and that it will not start to benefit from cost savings until late in 
2021. In a previous update, the airline said it expected to receive only 10 planes for the summer of 2020, down from 
an earlier figure of 20.
The Dublin-based airline has also extended by “at least one or two years” — until 2025 or 2026 — its target to carry 
200m passengers, prompting analysts to suggest it will now be harder for Ryanair to achieve its target for €2bn in 
annual operating profits. “Moving that goalpost makes that €2bn even harder to achieve, if at all,” said Daniel 
Roeska, senior analyst at Bernstein Research.
Mr Roeska added that Ryanair changing its growth targets could benefit the rest of the industry. “If Ryanair isn’t 
growing that quickly, that means less capacity in the market and everybody can [charge higher] fares.”
Ryanair faces more disruption over latest Boeing Max delays
The latest Max delays were expected and could be “a blessing in disguise” for the airline, Mr Roeska said. “If 
Ryanair was receiving the planes right now, capacity growth would be higher and fares would be lower.” 
Micheal O’Leary, the chief executive, noted that the original delivery schedule has now been delayed by 12 months 
and that Boeing expects approval to resume flights in June. “We had hoped to have 55 aircraft in the fleet for the 
summer of 2020. We’ll have none,” he said.
“What that means for us is obviously much slower growth in 2021. We expect very modest growth through the 
summer of 2020.”
Mr O’Leary also said he expected no long-term impact from coronavirus, saying Ryanair’s experience with Sars 
several years ago and with avian flu was that they were “mildly good” for European short haul travel. “More people 
were likely to holiday in Europe rather than travelling long haul to Asia . . . and we think that will play out again. But 
we should be wary on the short-term impact.” 
Ryanair shares rose 5.7 per cent in London after the results were published. The group had already upgraded its 
full-year forecast in January — predicting pre-tax profits of between €950m and €1.05bn, compared with an earlier 
range of €800m to €900m. Net profit in the three months to December was €88m, against a €66m loss in the same 
period one year previously.
Forward bookings were 1 per cent ahead of this time last year, the carrier said, and average fares were “slightly 
better than expected”. It expects full-year customer number growth of 8 per cent to 154m passengers.
On UK-EU trade after Brexit, Mr O’Leary said the mood music was negative but dismissed “tough talk” from 
London. “The British are talking tough about non-alignment and all the rest of it, in which case that will be a 
negative certainly for the airline industry and for an agreement [for] the continuation of the Open Skies regime.” 
“I assume at some time by the middle of the year, the British will have to talk somewhat less tough since they don’t 
have much of a negotiating position. But it’s an area that I think investors should continue to keep a wary eye on. 
We’ll have much more clarity on it by the time we get to the end of June, which will be the kind of deadline for the 
British successfully concluding these genius negotiations they’re proposing.”
Load-Date: February 4, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair : seat feat
Ryanair: seat feat 
 
FT.com
February 3, 2020 Monday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 342 words
Body
We are all strong enough to bear the misfortunes of others. Ryanair is the latest business to illustrate the truth of 
that sardonic maxim. Thomas Cook has collapsed and rival airlines such as Norwegian have been cutting routes. 
That has helped the Irish airline and its UK nemesis easyJet to fill more seats and squeeze more cash out of those 
sitting in them. 
In Ryanair’s case, that meant lifting the load factor 1 percentage point to 96 per cent in the third quarter, and raising 
revenues per passenger by 13 per cent.
In similar vein, delays to the delivery of the Boeing 737 Max — grounded after two fatal crashes — are something of 
a blessing in disguise. Ryanair will not start taking delivery until September or October. So scratch that additional 4 
per cent capacity enabled by the bigger-bodied planes for a couple more years.
But here’s the rub. The Max is more efficient, burning 16 per cent less fuel.  Oil is the biggest cost for stripped-down 
Ryanair, accounting for 38 per cent of the total bill in the latest quarter. These savings will now not flow till late next 
fiscal year.
Also pushed further down the timeline is a target to carry 200m passengers — or “guests”, to use Ryanair’s 
preferred euphemism — now delayed by one or two years to FY2025 or 2026. It expects this year to fly 154m 
passengers.
That implies roughly halving annual passenger growth that currently stands at 8 per cent — and suggests a new 
dawn for pricing deliberations at the shouty, pack ’em in airline. In a best-case scenario, Ryanair will focus on yields 
over revenues; but earnings will still suffer.
Ryanair : seat feat
Fittingly for an airline that specialises in short hops, near-term tailwinds are in Ryanair’s favour. But they also help 
easyJet, the rival whose occasional misfortunes Ryanair bears most cheerfully of all. Shareholders were right to 
push Ryanair’s share price higher this morning. The smart ones will exit before the inevitable medium-term 
turbulence hits.
Our popular newsletter for premium subscribers Best of Lex is published twice weekly. Please sign up  here. 
Load-Date: February 3, 2020
End of Document
Opening Quote: Imperial turns to car industry for its new CEO
Opening Quote: Imperial turns to car industry for its new CEO
 
FT.com
February 3, 2020 Monday 8:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 957 words
Byline: Jennifer Thompson
Body
FT subscribers can  click here to receive Opening quote by email.
The hunt is over. Four months after announcing that Alison Cooper would be moving on, Imperial Brands has 
named her successor as chief executive — step forward Stefan Bomhard, who has run car retailer Inchcape for 
about five years.
Ms Cooper has now stepped down as CEO and as a board director with immediate effect, although Mr Bomhard 
will only join the tobacco group “effective at a date to be announced”. Until that is disclosed, Dominic Brisby — 
who oversees the group’s operations in the Americas, Africa, Asia and Australasia, and Joerg Biebernick, the 
divisional director for Europe, will become joint interim CEOs.
They all face a steep task. Imperial Brands, which was forced to temper its revenue growth expectations last year, 
is grappling with a clampdown on vaping and e-cigarettes in the US and a recent drop in annual pre-tax profit. Mr 
Bomhard’s CV is a roll-call of big consumer names: he has previously held senior roles at Bacardi, Cadbury, 
Unilever, Diageo and Procter & Gamble. He will need to mine all his sales and marketing savvy to turn Imperial’s 
fortunes around. 
Briefly 
Ryanair is being hurt by the Boeing 737 Max crisis. The low-cost airline said it is likely it won’t receive an order of 
the jets until September or October and warned of disruption to key passenger targets due to the grounding of the 
Opening Quote: Imperial turns to car industry for its new CEO
plane after two fatal crashes. Its goal to carry 200m passengers has been extended by “at least one or two years” 
until its 2025 or 2026 fiscal years as a result. Ryanair also reported net profit of €88m in the three months to 
December, in contrast to a €66m loss in the same period a year earlier.
Nissan has drawn up a plan to pull out of mainland Europe if Brexit leads to tariffs on car exports — but to double 
down on the UK, where the Japanese company believes it could sell one in five cars, according to people involved 
in the discussions. The scenario is one of several that the carmaker has developed and would be a major boost to 
its Sunderland plant and the 6,000 workers there. Nissan’s public position is that the UK plant would be threatened 
if the UK fails to maintain tariff-free access to the EU. “We deny such a contingency plan exists,” a spokesman for 
Nissan Europe said.
Britain’s energy regulator has called for radical changes in a plan aimed at meeting the government’s target of net 
zero emissions by 2050. Ofgem has outlined measures such as supporting the growth of renewables and the 
rollout of up to 10m electric vehicles as it looks to decarbonise the energy network.
Finally, one to watch when the market opens — shares in the combined Takeaway.com and Just Eat begin trading 
on Monday. The two delayed plans to list their combined company — snappily called Just Eat Takeaway.com — on 
the London Stock Exchange by a week after UK competition authorities launched a last-minute investigation into 
their £6bn merger, one of the biggest deals in UK technology in recent years.
Job moves
WeWork has a new chief executive. Sandeep Mathrani will join the lossmaking shared office space provider later 
this month, according to people familiar with the plan; WeWork and SoftBank, the group’s largest shareholder, 
declined to comment.
Beyond the Square Mile 
Credit Suisse has frozen its investment bank bonus pool for the second year running after a surge in trading 
revenue in 2019 was offset by big declines in its advisory and capital markets business. Tidjane Thiam, Credit 
Suisse chief executive, has singled out the bank’s investment banking and capital markets unit as “unsatisfactory” 
and workers in that unit will see their bonuses cut by a percentage in the “high teens”, according to people with 
knowledge of the decision. The trading side, however, more than doubled pre-tax profits in the first nine months of 
2019.
Investors betting against Tesla suffered record losses of $5.8bn in January after the stock hit a new high, marking a 
win for chief executive Elon Musk in a long-running battle with short-sellers. Mr Musk’s testy sparring online with 
notable short-sellers, including David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital, has become one of the fiercest rivalries in 
capital markets.
Global M&A got off to its slowest start in seven years in 2020. Companies around the world clinched $164bn worth 
of mergers and acquisitions in January, the quietest month for takeovers since April 2013. Geopolitical uncertainty, 
including Donald Trump’s impeachment trial, fears of far left-leaning Democratic presidential candidates, the US-
China trade war and more recent fears of a global health crisis, have shaken confidence among board members 
and executives in blue-chip companies.
Ajay Banga, chief executive of Mastercard, is unequivocal about governments’ attempts to break the global 
payments system into national fiefdoms at the end of a week that saw his company report revenues of $17bn, more 
than triple the level of a decade ago. “The economic cost of building siloed systems in a world where citizens travel 
globally is really stupid, and where crime travels globally is even more stupid, and where technology is completely 
global is even three times more stupid,” he says in this interview.
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Pilita Clark
Opening Quote: Imperial turns to car industry for its new CEO
The winner of a recent GQ award for the worst-dressed man came as a shock. It was Dominic Cummings, the 
maverick Number 10 aide. He appears to have digested, consciously or not, what researchers call the “ red 
sneakers effect”.
Jonathan Black
The head of the careers service at Oxford university offers some advice on how to take control of your career in an 
uncertain world.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here. 
Load-Date: February 3, 2020
End of Document
The secretive hedge fund boss at the controls of Flybe
The secretive hedge fund boss at the controls of Flybe
 
FT.com
January 31, 2020 Friday 9:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 893 words
Byline: Tabby Kinder, Robert Smith and Daniel Thomas
Body
On a quiet side street in Mayfair, sandwiched between boutique art galleries, is the office of Lucien Farrell, a 
secretive hedge fund executive trying to negotiate a £100m government bailout.
Mr Farrell, 45, has run Cyrus Capital in Europe for 15 years, making his name as a canny investor in distressed 
debt while carefully preserving his privacy. But none of those previous investments has been quite as high profile as 
Flybe, the ailing airline, which Cyrus owns alongside Sir Richard Branson’s Virgin Atlantic.
As chairman of Flybe’s holding company Connect Airways, Mr Farrell is trying to secure government support to 
keep the loss-making airline airborne. He has played a key role in Whitehall discussions over the terms of a deal 
that would prevent the carrier from being put into administration; it could be agreed next week.
The proposed rescue has attracted outrage and legal threats from rival airline bosses, including Ryanair’s Michael 
O’Leary. A high-profile collapse, on the other hand, would bring the scrutiny of the Insolvency Service and 
regulators.
The well-connected Mr Farrell counts among his contacts Ben Elliot, co-chairman of the Conservative party, whose 
aunt is the Duchess of Cornwall. Mr Farrell was a classmate of Mr Elliot at Eton College and more recently has 
participated in bike rides organised by Mr Elliot’s charity, the Quintessentially Foundation. He is also a patron to the 
Victoria and Albert Museum, where Mr Elliot is a trustee.
The secretive hedge fund boss at the controls of Flybe
Unlike some wealthy hedge fund managers, Mr Farrell, who lives in Notting Hill with his children and wife Sophie, is 
extremely private, according to several people close to him. 
He was one of about 500 individuals — alongside comedian Jimmy Carr and fellow hedge fund manager George 
Robinson — who were directors of a tax avoidance scheme, known as Rushmore, which was closed down in 2009 
following an investigation by HM Revenue & Customs.
But almost no photographs of him or details about his life exist online and he has never given a media interview. He 
declined to comment for this article.
In business, one hedge fund manager, who considers Mr Farrell a friend despite facing off against him in 
investments, said he “takes no hostages” and described him as “unbelievably crafty”. “When I saw that one airline 
could actually be getting a government bailout, I wasn't surprised it was one Lucien is involved in,” he said.
Mr Farrell, a Cambridge University graduate, specialises in distressed investing, in which investors look to profit 
from buying up the shares or debts of troubled companies, a field that often pits rival hedge funds against one 
another in sometimes acrimonious disputes. 
He became one of the founding partners of Cyrus when he was just 30 years old after his mentor Steve Friedheim, 
a US distressed investing stalwart, tapped him up to run the London office of his new hedge fund. Cyrus is named 
after Mr Friedheim’s father and notably manages money for his alma mater, Yale University.
Since it was founded in 2005, Cyrus has grown into a powerhouse of distressed investing, accumulating $4bn in 
assets. Mr Farrell has spearheaded bets on struggling UK household names such as the Co-operative 
Bank. Turnover in the UK — where Cyrus employs only five members of staff — has risen from £2.5m to £9.7m 
since 2005 and its profits have increased from £1.4m to £7.5m, according to its latest accounts filed at Companies 
House.
"I have been involved in investments in over 100 companies, the majority of which would be considered stressed or 
distressed companies," Mr Farrell said in sworn testimony for a 2016 US court case, which court records show was 
signed in San Cassiano, an upmarket Italian skiing village.
Cyrus became a 40 per cent shareholder in Flybe early last year when it joined with Virgin Atlantic and Stobart Air 
to acquire the ailing airline for £2.2m, equivalent to 1p per share. Flybe’s equity shareholders approved the deal 
after they were warned it would otherwise likely be wound up. Virgin and Stobart each own 30 per cent. 
The group has put £110m into the airline, partially through loans with  tight security over Flybe’s assets. Financial 
troubles caused partly by over capacity, rising maintenance costs and high air passenger duty have prompted the 
talks with ministers, although the company has denied it wants a “bailout”. Mark Anderson, chief executive of Flybe, 
said earlier this month that the loan would be “the same as any loan we’d take from any bank”.
While many onlookers struggle to understand the rationale behind Mr Farrell’s investment in Flybe, it is not the first 
time Cyrus has partnered with Sir Richard to make a contrarian bet on a domestic airline. The hedge fund helped 
the British billionaire entrepreneur establish Virgin America in 2005 and the two shareholders shared a windfall of 
$1.4bn when it was snapped up by rival Alaska Air for $2.6bn a decade later.
“There’s not a lot of hedge funds that can say they’ve made money buying airline equity,” said one distressed debt 
investor.
Still, several distressed investment specialists told the FT that it was unlikely Mr Farrell would repeat the trick with 
Flybe.
“I don’t know how he makes money out of it,” said one restructuring adviser who knows Mr Farrell. “The only way 
you make money is if you sell it. And I don’t see that happening.”
Additional reporting by Tanya Powley
The secretive hedge fund boss at the controls of Flybe
Load-Date: February 3, 2020
End of Document
Wizz Air boss pledges to grow ‘even faster’ despite Brexit
Wizz Air boss pledges to grow ‘even faster’ despite Brexit
 
FT.com
January 29, 2020 Wednesday 8:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 501 words
Byline: Sarah Provan and Bethan Staton in London
Body
Wizz Air boss Jozsef Varadi pledged to grow “even faster” on Wednesday as he pointed to opportunities for 
expansion in eastern Europe and the Middle East.
The chief executive of the Hungarian airline was also optimistic about the UK despite Brexit-related uncertainties as 
the carrier swung from net losses to profit.
The net profit of €21.4m in the three months to the end of December, the third quarter of the company’s financial 
year, was a contrast to a loss of €21m in the same period in 2018 when Mr Varadi blamed Brexit for hitting demand. 
The largest low-cost airline serving central and eastern Europe also raised its full-year profit guidance, promising to 
deliver growth of 24 per cent in the three months to the end of March, its fourth quarter. 
This would lift the London listed carrier’s full-year profit to a range of between €350m to €355m. 
“We are seeing quite a sparkling market from a growth perspective,” Mr Varadi said. “We are still a high-growth 
business.” It increased passenger numbers by 23 per cent to 10m in the third quarter. 
Although he had previously blamed Brexit for poor performance, Mr Varadi said the airline had grown in the UK 
despite uncertainty. Growth opportunities for the airline lie in expansion in Abu Dhabi, St Petersburg and Armenia, 
he said. 
Wizz Air boss pledges to grow ‘even faster’ despite Brexit
But limited capacity at Luton and Gatwick airports, which have no additional slots for Wizz Air’s desired growth, 
remain an obstacle for the airline in the UK.
“We are very upbeat about opportunities in the UK,” he said. “The issue we have in the UK is with infrastructure 
constraints.” Options for expansion include taking slots in regional airports or buying slots from other carriers. 
Wizz Air’s growth announcement follows setbacks for its competitors, as the fallout from Brexit and the grounding of 
Boeing aircraft disrupt airlines’ plans. 
Ryanair this week told pilots that base cuts and job losses were likely as a result of high-profile delays in the 
delivery of Boeing aircraft as the manufacturer struggles to meet regulator deadlines following two fatal crashes.
But Mr Varadi said there was limited potential to exploit the obstacles of rivals.
“We are one of the better airlines dealing with some of the aircraft problems,” he said. “In principle, we could take 
advantage but, in practice, we cannot because we are seeing delays in our own deliveries.”
He criticised UK government assistance to regional airline Flybe, which was this month handed a rescue package 
including a tax holiday on air passenger duty. Wizz Air will be “looking at legal action” if appropriate. 
“I think it’s wrong,” he said. “This sort of thing has to be left to the market.”
The airline said that revenue for the three months to the end of December had risen nearly 25 per cent, to €637.3m.
It reported that its carbon emissions per customer per kilometre had declined 2.4 per cent over the past 12 months.
Julie Palmer, partner at Begbies Traynor, said that Brexit fallout and aviation duty could yet pose challenges for the 
carrier. 
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair boss says UK government ‘blindsided by billionaires’ over Flybe
Ryanair boss says UK government ‘blindsided by billionaires’ over Flybe
 
FT.com
January 28, 2020 Tuesday 2:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 520 words
Byline: Bethan Staton in London
Body
Ryanair group chief executive Michael O’Leary has accused the UK government of being “blindsided by billionaires” 
in his latest caustic intervention over a state rescue package for the struggling Flybe airline.
In a letter to the chancellor, Sajid Javid, on Tuesday, Mr O’Leary said the carrier was “doomed to fail” and argued 
its owners should be footing the bill to “bail out the lossmaking Flybe”.
The letter, in response to a government letter on January 24, continues Ryanair’s public criticism of the government 
deal with regional airline Flybe, which Mr O’Leary describes as a “failed business model”. 
“Clearly your government is being blindsided by these billionaires. If Richard Branson and his mates won’t lend 
£100m to Flybe, then why should the hard-pressed British taxpayer rescue them?” he wrote. 
Flybe, which runs routes from smaller local airports around the UK, was this month handed a rescue package 
including a short-term deferral of some of its air passenger duty (APD), a tax levied on airlines.
The dispute comes as Ryanair wrote to its pilots warning of potential base cuts and closures after Boeing pushed 
back the delivery of 10 aircraft. 
A memo from Eddie Wilson, the airline’s chief executive, to staff this week said the arrival of the Max 200 aircraft 
planned for May and June had been pushed back to September or October. The Max is still subject to an extended 
grounding by regulators following two crashes last year that killed 346 people. 
Ryanair boss says UK government ‘blindsided by billionaires’ over Flybe
Ryanair said this would mean “eliminating 10 aircraft” from bases and that further pilot and crew reductions could 
not be ruled out, with any decision due at the start of next month. 
Flybe is seeking a short-term government loan of £100m, according to people with knowledge of the situation. The 
airline’s owners — the Connect Airways consortium owned by Virgin Atlantic, Stobart Group and Cyrus Capital — 
have promised to invest at least £30m in the airline with an additional £20m expected later, said the people. 
Publicly, Flybe has said its agreement with the government is not a bailout but a short-term payment plan for a debt 
of less than £10m, rather than a year-long air passenger duty bill that would likely amount to about £106m. 
“The government will not lend if they do not believe there is a credible plan,” Mark Anderson, the airline’s chief 
executive, said earlier this month. 
Mr O’Leary also wrote to the government to ask that the relief on APD given to Flybe should be applied to all other 
carriers in the UK, arguing that giving one carrier extra time to pay was in “breach of state aid rules”.
British Airways owner IAG said it had submitted a Freedom of Information request to the government seeking 
details on the APD deal and any short-term loan, and whether the government was a financial guarantor ensuring 
the survival of Flybe. 
Willie Walsh, IAG’s outgoing chief executive, described the government intervention as a “blatant misuse of public 
funds”.
The government has previously said that any loan to Flybe would have to comply with state aid rules. A Whitehall 
source described the latest Ryanair letter as “a bit of a rant”. 
Load-Date: March 5, 2020
End of Document
‘Levelling up’: Boris Johnson faces awkward choice over costly HS2 project
‘Levelling up’: Boris Johnson faces awkward choice over costly HS2 project
 
FT.com
January 24, 2020 Friday 1:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 766 words
Byline: Tony Barber
Body
FT subscribers can  click here to receive Brexit Briefing every day by email.
The catchphrase of Theresa May’s government, which held power for three years after the UK’s 2016 Brexit 
referendum, was “ global Britain”.
Regarded even in some Conservative party circles as an embarrassingly empty concept, it was intended as a signal 
to the world that Brexit did not signify a British retreat from internationalism.
The catchphrase of Boris Johnson’s government is “ levelling up”.
This is a signal to voters who deserted the Labour party for the Conservatives in December’s general election that 
there will be a decisive shift of state-guided investment in favour of  their areas, chiefly in northern England and the 
Midlands.
“Levelling up” is a  political project  as much as an economic one. One Conservative aim is to shower funds on 
selected regions in such a way as to consolidate the party’s recent electoral gains and retain power at Westminster 
throughout the 2020s.
A second objective is to heal the social and geographical  wounds of Brexit  by spreading government largesse 
around the UK — although it is unclear what benefits Mr Johnson has in mind for Remain-voting areas such as 
London and Scotland.
‘Levelling up’: Boris Johnson faces awkward choice over costly HS2 project
“Levelling up” implies more state interventionism than is normally associated with the rightwing free-market 
ideologues who have been a driving force behind Brexit since the late Margaret Thatcher’s era.
Ryan Bourne, a representative of this school of thought,  wrote last month on the ConservativeHome website: “The 
hard truth that we economic liberals must now face is that Britain is once again dominated by collectivist thinking. 
The Conservatives have been on a very, very slow drift away from market economics over a 25-year period.”
It is an interesting argument. But it would have been more interesting if Mr Bourne had mentioned that similar 
trends are visible in France, Germany and the EU as a whole, partly because of the post-2008 financial crash and 
recession, and partly because of anxieties over the competitive threat of China and its state-assisted companies.
An early example of the Johnson government’s interventionist instincts is the rescue this month of  Flybe, a 
lossmaking regional airline.
The government defended its action by stressing its commitment to keeping distant parts of the UK connected with 
each other. But  British Airways, Ryanair and other carriers were understandably furious.
Far from being a forward-looking decision to “level up” the UK economy for the 2020s, the rescue resembled the 
state-subsidised protection of failing companies that marked government policies in the 1970s towards the car, 
shipbuilding and other sectors.
A bigger test is  High Speed 2, a rail project to connect northern and central England with London that is the UK’s 
most ambitious and expensive infrastructure scheme in a generation.
According to the  latest government review  of HS2, its costs could rise to £106bn in 2019 prices, almost double the 
£56bn estimate of five years ago. However, there remains “significant uncertainty” that HS2 will have any trains 
running between London and northern England by 2040, the review says.
HS2 presents Mr Johnson with the kind of awkward political choice that he hates making.
HS2 is set to devour so much public money that there may be little left for succouring the newly Conservative areas 
of provincial England with other big initiatives.
 Simon Jenkins and like-minded critics say the funds would be better spent on connecting northern English cities 
and towns with each other.
For its supporters, however, HS2 is a hugely symbolic “levelling up” project.
Will Mr Johnson scrap it or save it? The answer will reveal much about the prime minister’s willingness to take 
brave decisions.
Further reading
Louis de Bernières: why I believe in Brexit There is more to Europe than the EU — now the English need to 
reclaim their sovereignty
“No family is constituted and determined by written agreement. The Germans and the French, the Portuguese and 
the Spanish, the Scottish and Irish, we’re a family whether we’re in the EU or not. Rearranging the fences between 
our houses does nothing to alter the fact that we are, and always have been, in the same village.” ( FT)
Sajid Javid seeks to placate business over post-Brexit rules (Chris Giles, FT)
Brexit strains for UK and devolved institutions (Nicola McEwen,  The UK In a Changing Europe)
Britain peers out of the Westminster tent to find a new model (Frederick Studemann,  FT)
Hard numbers
‘Levelling up’: Boris Johnson faces awkward choice over costly HS2 project
UK private sector upturn points to stronger economy
Will a US trade deal damage Britain’s car industry? 
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
EasyJet / Ryanair : vice report
EasyJet/Ryanair: vice report
 
FT.com
January 21, 2020 Tuesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 356 words
Body
“Competition is a sin!” railed oil tycoon John D Rockefeller. He thought business was best conducted without pesky 
rivals. One fewer for low-cost European airline easyJet is certainly proving beneficial. Revenue per seat rose almost 
9 per cent in the three months to December, helped by the  collapse of rival Thomas Cook in September. EasyJet 
shares on Tuesday lifted as much as 5 per cent.
EasyJet, which favours Airbuses,  is also benefiting from the misery of competitors who own grounded Boeing 737 
Max aircraft. This is putting a cap on capacity growth expectations including those of Ryanair. That could mean an 
opportunity to grab market share if demand is as “robust” as easyJet claims. 
EasyJet thinks its capacity will rise 3 per cent this year, faster than the industry. Ryanair hopes to achieve similar 
growth. That depends on it receiving 10 new 737 Max jets in the summer. The odds of this are lengthening as more 
problems with the Max emerge.
Easing back on the throttle and cruising might be a better option for EasyJet. The Brexit uncertainty that hit last 
year’s trading may have passed. The event itself could still involve nasty turbulence
Peter Bellew, who recently joined from Ryanair as chief operating officer, should focus his attention on costs. At 
easyJet, expenses excluding fuel have been rising twice as fast as those at its thriftier rival.
No opportunity to boost operating margins should be overlooked. They were 7 per cent at easyJet last year, 
compared with Ryanair’s 12 per cent. Each percentage point of improvement would have added £63m to last year’s 
bottom line.
EasyJet / Ryanair : vice report
EasyJet could be forgiven for privately rejoicing in the downfall or discomfort of its foes. In business, no one gets a 
prize for being a good sportsman. But the advantage tends to be temporary, as illustrated by the fillip Dixons 
Carphone received from the collapse of Comet. Any expansion at easyJet needs to be sustainable when the 737 
Max is back in the air and Thomas Cook is long forgotten. 
Opening Quote is a daily City of London briefing delivered directly to your inbox as the market opens. Click  here to 
receive it five days a week
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
EasyJet lifts outlook as Thomas Cook collapse provides boost
EasyJet lifts outlook as Thomas Cook collapse provides boost
 
FT.com
January 21, 2020 Tuesday 7:54 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 442 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Myles McCormick in London
Body
The collapse of rival Thomas Cook has boosted easyJet over the quiet winter period as the low-cost airline said it 
expected to narrow its first-half loss this year. 
EasyJet on Tuesday signalled plans to improve its first half pre-tax loss of £275m last year as it benefited from 
strong travel demand and lower capacity levels from rivals.
The low-cost carrier reported an 8.8 per cent growth in revenue per seat — a key industry metric — in the three 
months to the end of December, of which about 1.5 per cent was attributable to the demise of its 178-year-old rival 
in September. 
EasyJet upgraded its outlook, saying it expected revenue per seat to now rise by mid to high single digits in the six 
months to March, compared with previously anticipated growth in the low to mid single digits. 
Johan Lundgren, chief executive of easyJet, said he expected the “positive momentum” to continue into the second 
half of the year. “There’s less visibility for the summer but bookings are slightly ahead compared to last year.” 
Shares in easyJet rose 5 per cent on Tuesday on the back of the better than expected pricing performance. 
It comes after its rival Ryanair this month raised its annual profit guidance as it reported strong demand for travel 
over Christmas. 
EasyJet lifts outlook as Thomas Cook collapse provides boost
Airlines have been benefiting from slower capacity growth, driven partly by Thomas Cook’s collapse and the 
grounding of the Boeing 737 Max, which has helped improve ticket prices. 
Analysts at Davy said the capacity backdrop and robust consumer demand should broadly remain into the coming 
quarter and summer. 
EasyJet said 75 per cent of its first-half seats have been booked, which is just over 1 percentage point ahead of the 
same time last year. 
Total group revenue for the quarter to March was £1.43bn, up 9.9 per cent.
On Tuesday, easyJet founder and shareholder Stelios Haji-Ioannou said he welcomed the airline’s restraint on 
capacity growth. 
However, he added that he was planning to make a token vote against the re-election of chairman John Barton at 
this year’s annual general meeting as part of his call for a focus on earnings growth. 
He wants easyJet to set a “stretched target” of 200 pence in earnings per share by 2021.
He added: “Clearly management have yet some way to go before we get to 200 pence EPS as the analysts 
forecast only 110 pence for FY21.”
Meanwhile, Mr Lundgren said easyJet was engaging directly with the UK government over its rescue of regional 
airline Flybe last week. He reiterated calls by rivals for “better clarity” over what help the government is providing 
the airline, and said nothing should be offered that gave “unique benefit to a single company”. 
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Flybe defends rescue plan in face of backlash from rivals
Flybe defends rescue plan in face of backlash from rivals
 
FT.com
January 17, 2020 Friday 7:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 309 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London
Body
Regional airline Flybe has rebutted claims it is receiving special treatment on its air passenger duty after a growing 
backlash from rivals over its government rescue package. 
The airline said it had agreed a payment plan with HM Revenue & Customs for a debt of less than £10m, rather 
than a whole year of the air passenger duty bill of around £106m.
“This agreement will only last a matter of months before all taxes and duties are paid in full,” Flybe said. It added: 
“This is a standard Time to Pay arrangement with HMRC that any business in financial difficulties may use.”
The government and Flybe confirmed earlier in the week that only some of the company’s APD would be deferred, 
but until now refused to put a figure on the sum.
Flybe’s chief executive Mark Anderson told staff on Thursday it was in talks with the government around a financial 
loan but insisted it was not a bailout. The video was first reported by the BBC. On Thursday, Ryanair boss Michael 
O’Leary threatened to sue the UK government over its rescue deal for Flybe. He said it was an “unnecessary 
misuse of government funds to rescue the failed investment of its billionaire shareholders of what has always been 
a failed business model.”
“We are in conversation with the government around a financial loan — a loan, not a bailout — a commercial loan, 
but that is the same as any loan we’d take from any bank,” he said.
Flybe defends rescue plan in face of backlash from rivals
“The government will not lend if they do not believe there is a credible plan. No one is going to throw good money 
after bad,” Mr Anderson added.
The airline, which on Tuesday secured a multi-prong rescue package from the government, issued the statement 
after growing criticism from rival carriers that it was receiving unfair state aid. 
IAG, which owns British Airways, has filed a complaint to the EU over state aid concerns.
Additional reporting by Jim Pickard
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
State rescue will not fly, say Flybe rivals
State rescue will not fly, say Flybe rivals
 
FT.com
January 17, 2020 Friday 7:25 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 838 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
In the past ten years, Flybe has had four chief executives, undergone multiple restructurings and come close to 
collapse three times.
This week the new owners of the UK regional airline, Connect Airways — a consortium consisting of Virgin Atlantic, 
Stobart Group and Cyrus Capital — were handed another chance to revive the carrier’s fortunes after a last-ditch 
rescue by the UK government.
But as rival airlines launched legal challenges to the support from Downing Street, many in the industry have 
questioned the future of Flybe, which operates more domestic services in the UK than any other carrier and has 
struggled for profitability.
“Under many different guises over the last 20 years . . . the Flybe model has lurched from reconstruction to 
reconstruction and has never been profitable or viable,” Michael O’Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, wrote in a 
letter to Sajid Javid, the chancellor, on Thursday.
Since it took over officially in July, Connect Airways has made some headway in trimming Flybe’s network. It has 
cut almost 45 per cent of flights from its domestic winter schedule compared with last winter, according to data from 
OAG, an aviation consultancy. 
Yet that was not enough to prevent Flybe last weekend lurching into a situation when its owners were considering 
whether it should let the airline enter administration after it ploughed £110m into the carrier largely to support its 
State rescue will not fly, say Flybe rivals
cash flow. It raises the question of how long the new £30m capital injection Flybe’s owners have promised as part 
of the government’s deal will last.
The size of its fleet is a longstanding problem, with previous management ordering too many aircraft. Many analysts 
believe it also needs to trim its route network and slim down. None of which sits comfortably with the government’s 
justification for keeping Flybe operating: helping to maintain easy connections throughout the UK. 
Filling its planes is another hurdle for Flybe. The airline’s load factor — the average number of seats filled on its 
aircraft — has typically hovered between 61 per cent and 75 per cent over the past decade, much lower than that 
achieved at its larger low-cost rivals easyJet and Ryanair. 
Flybe has long argued that the high cost of air passenger duty has suppressed regional demand: as a domestic 
airline, it was also hit harder by the tax as its passengers would be charged the short-haul duty cost — £13 — twice 
as they depart from two UK airports versus a single charge for those travelling abroad. 
Chris Tarry, a London-based aviation analyst, warns that “turnrounds are always challenging, need to be achieved 
rapidly, tend to cost more than expected and need to be underpinned by a credible and coherent plan”. 
And Virgin, one of Flybe’s owners, knows all too well the challenge of turning regional flying in the UK into a 
profitable business. Virgin has long searched for a way to feed passengers on to its long-haul flights from Heathrow 
and Manchester after it lost important transfer traffic when IAG bought BMI from Lufthansa in 2012. 
The same year Virgin acquired a package of landing slots at Heathrow for domestic flights, setting up its Little Red 
subsidiary, with the same aim of securing a network of routes from around the UK to feed its long-haul business. 
However, severe losses saw Little Red close in 2015.
Revamping Flybe’s UK network may also run into the competing interests of the groups that make up Connect 
Airways. Stobart Group, which, like Virgin, owns 30 per cent of Flybe, has made clear that it wants to use the carrier 
to help grow London Southend Airport, which it owns. In November, the airline announced it would fly to 10 
destinations from London Southend from the summer, which is expected to see an additional 500,000 passengers 
travel annually through the airport. 
Toscafund, a UK-based hedge fund, this week took an 18 per cent stake in Stobart because of the group’s 
ambitions for Southend Airport. 
“We believe that if management are successful as they plan then Southend Airport would be worth at least £1bn 
within 3 years,” says Martin Hughes, Toscafund founder.
One tailwind for Flybe could come from the government’s review of regional connectivity which should report within 
months. It could recommend a rise in the number of routes subsidised through the European Union’s public service 
obligation scheme. Flybe currently runs just one of these routes — Newquay, Cornwall to London Gatwick. 
Aviation analysts believe expanding the number of routes it subsidises would be a better way for the government to 
keep the UK’s regions connected — while recognising that profitability is likely to prove elusive on many of the 
routes that are vital to smaller communities. 
“If regional government or UK government wants to ensure regional connectivity from smaller cities, then some type 
of PSO structure should be established that allows regional airlines to tender for contracts in an environment where 
they can ensure a modest profit,” said John Grant of OAG. 
Additional reporting by Laurence Fletcher
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
State rescue will not fly, say Flybe rivals
End of Document
Ryanair ’s O’Leary wades into Flybe debate
Ryanair’s O’Leary wades into Flybe debate
 
FT.com
January 16, 2020 Thursday 5:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 661 words
Byline: Tanya Powley in London
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary has waded into the furore over the rescue of Flybe, threatening legal 
action against the UK government and denouncing the regional airline’s business model.
In a letter to Sajid Javid, Mr O’Leary said the air passenger duty holiday given to Flybe should be extended to all 
rival carriers in the UK.
“This government-led ‘rescue’ of the billionaire-owned Flybe is in breach of competition rules, in breach of state aid 
rules, and is an unnecessary misuse of government funds to rescue the failed investment of its billionaire 
shareholders of what has always been a failed business model.” 
His comments add to a growing backlash against a support package agreed with Westminster on Tuesday.
They followed a statement from Stobart Group, one of Flybe’s owners, that said the rescue was required partly 
because of a delay in gaining control of the airline after the acquisition was agreed in January 2019.
Stobart is one of three owners of Flybe, along with Virgin Atlantic and Cyrus Capital, which together form Connect 
Airways. 
The company said on Thursday that their purchase did not receive clearance from the European Commission until 
July 2019. “The delay in receiving control, coupled with a number of other factors including legacy issues, impacted 
on the delivery of the consortium’s turnround plan for Flybe. This resulted in a situation in which a further injection of 
funds is required to ensure continued flying”.
Ryanair ’s O’Leary wades into Flybe debate
Stobart revealed it was contributing up to £9m of a £30m capital injection into Flybe agreed as part of the 
government rescue package. It said the funds would be drawn down only if required. The government agreed a 
short-term deferral of Flybe’s air passenger duty — equating to about £106m a year — and a potential loan.
Flybe’s rivals have lashed out at the rescue plan, saying taxpayers should not be called on to save the ailing 
business. 
IAG, which owns British Airways, on Thursday said it had submitted a Freedom of Information request to both the 
HMRC and Department for Transport as it accused the government of a “lack of transparency” on its rescue 
package.
The airline group, which on Wednesday filed a complaint to the EU over state aid concerns, wants answers on the 
details of the APD deal, any short-term loan and whether the government is a financial guarantor to ensure Flybe’s 
survival.
Mr O’Leary added: “The absurd claim by business secretary Andrea Leadsom that the Flybe business model is 
“viable” is baseless.” 
He demanded Mr Javid laid out details on what government support had been given to Flybe, most notably around 
APD, and that this would be extended to all other UK airlines. He said if the government failed to confirm these facts 
within seven days, Ryanair would launch proceedings against the government for breach of UK and EU competition 
law, and breach of state aid rules.
Stobart Group said: “The Connect Airways consortium has worked tirelessly alongside Flybe and the UK 
government to look for solutions to ensure the financial viability of the airline so that consumers can continue to 
have confidence in flying with Flybe.”
Stobart said the consortium had already provided £110m in funds to the airline. As part of this, Stobart has invested 
£45m through a combination of cash and assets, which includes the sale of Stobart Air, its regional airline, and 
Propius, its aircraft leasing business.
The consortium paid £2.8m for Flybe’s operations and last year pledged as part of the acquisition to spend £100m 
to shore up the business.
Flybe is the largest operator of routes within the UK, with almost two in five British domestic flights. Several regional 
UK airports are dependent on the carrier.
Stobart’s interest has been to help grow London Southend Airport, which it owns. In November, Flybe announced it 
would fly to 10 destinations from London Southend from the summer, which is expected to see an additional 
500,000 passengers travel annually through the airport. 
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
British Airways owner IAG files EU complaint over Flybe rescue
British Airways owner IAG files EU complaint over Flybe rescue
 
FT.com
January 15, 2020 Wednesday 6:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 696 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Jim Pickard and Javier Espinoza
Body
Flybe’s rivals have lashed out at the government’s rescue of the troubled regional airline, saying taxpayers should 
not be called on to save the ailing business as British Airways’ owner IAG filed a complaint to the EU over state aid 
concerns.
Within hours of agreeing a package to support Flybe, Boris Johnson’s government was accused of giving 
preferential treatment to Flybe to keep crucial regional routes open.
IAG said it had written to the European Commission on Wednesday morning highlighting its concern that the rescue 
of Flybe breached state aid rules. Ryanair has also written a letter to UK chancellor Sajid Javid, warning him that 
any move to help Flybe by cutting air passenger duty for all domestic flights — and not international flights — would 
“constitute unlawful state aid” to the airlines operating on those routes. 
The government on Tuesday agreed a multi-prong rescue deal for Flybe including a short-term deferral of some of 
its APD, which costs the airline about £106m a year, and a potential government loan. 
Under the terms of the agreement, Flybe’s owner, Connect Airways — a consortium of Virgin Atlantic, Stobart Air 
and Cyrus Capital — will inject about £30m into the airline over the coming months.
The government also pledged to review APD for all UK carriers with the aim of improving regional connections 
without breaching climate targets.
British Airways owner IAG files EU complaint over Flybe rescue
Willie Walsh, IAG’s outgoing chief executive, blasted UK ministers’ support for Flybe as a “blatant misuse of public 
funds”, saying taxpayers were picking up the bill for mismanagement of the airline.
Johan Lundgren, chief executive of easyJet, said: “Taxpayers should not be used to bail out individual companies, 
especially when they are backed by well-funded businesses.”
Ryanair said it had “already called for more robust and frequent stress tests on financially weak airlines and tour 
operators so the taxpayer does not have to bail them out”.
In its letter to the chancellor, seen by the FT, Ryanair referenced a case in 2011 where the Irish government was 
forced by the European Commission to change its air travel tax arrangement, which offered lower rates for domestic 
flights. 
Eoin Kealy, head of competition and regulatory at Ryanair, wrote: “We trust that the UK government will not act in a 
manner that unlawfully favours a financially profligate airline over other airlines that offer UK passengers low fares 
and reliable service.” 
The EU Commission said, as with all member states, it was ready to discuss with the UK the “compatibility of 
proposed public measures with EU state aid rules”. 
The UK has to follow EU rules on state aid after Brexit at least until the end of the year.
While Flybe competes with BA, Ryanair and easyJet on some domestic routes, it services dozens of other links at 
regional airports where no other carrier operates. It carries 8m passengers annually between 71 airports across the 
UK and Europe.
Downing Street said: “The government is fully complying with state aid rules. There has been no state aid for 
Flybe.”
Grant Shapps, secretary of state for transport, added: “Any changes implemented as a result of our reviews of air 
passenger duty and regional connectivity will apply to all airlines in the competitive aviation market.”
In a statement, Mr Walsh noted that one of Flybe’s owners was Virgin Atlantic, which is part-owned by one of the 
US’s biggest airlines, Delta. “Prior to the acquisition of Flybe by the consortium, which includes Virgin/Delta, Flybe 
argued for taxpayers to fund its operations by subsidising regional routes. Virgin/Delta now want the taxpayer to 
pick up the tab for their mismanagement of the airline,” he said.
Some airlines welcomed the government’s plan to review APD, with easyJet’s Mr Lundgren saying it was a good 
start. “The UK’s air passenger [duty] is one of the highest aviation taxes in the world and adds a significant amount 
to fares for passengers. It provides no incentives for airlines or passengers to improve the carbon efficiency of their 
flying, it simply acts as a revenue raiser.”
He said the APD review should go further and look at how it could provide incentives to save carbon through more 
efficient flying. 
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Markets not live, Wednesday 15th January 2020
Markets not live, Wednesday 15th January 2020
 
FT.com
January 15, 2020 Wednesday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1588 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Flybe’s  saved and everyone’s happy except Willie Walsh,             who’s not. 
[The] outgoing chief executive of IAG blasted government support for Flybe, which carries 8m passengers 
annually between 71 airports across the UK and Europe, saying taxpayers were picking up the tab for 
mismanagement of the airline. In a statement, Mr Walsh noted that one of Flybe’s owners is Virgin Atlantic, 
which itself is part owned by one of the US’s biggest airlines, Delta. “Prior to the acquisition of Flybe by the 
consortium which includes Virgin/Delta, Flybe argued for taxpayers to fund its operations by subsidising 
regional routes. Virgin/Delta now want the taxpayer to pick up the tab for their mismanagement of the airline,” 
he said. “Flybe’s precarious situation makes a mockery of the promises the airline, its shareholders and 
Heathrow have made about the expansion of regional flights if a third runway is built.”
Aye, maybe. But then, Flybe’s domestic network was built largely around its 2007 purchase of  British Airways’ 
lossmaking BA Connect. At the time Mr Walsh said regional wasn’t suitable for BA’s high-frills product, with “no 
prospect for profitability in current form”, and was threatening to close the business if no buyer emerged. The 
disposal meant BA was able to keep hold of more than half the landing slots at Heathrow while shedding 
responsibility for the likes of Anglesea and Wick — after which Mr Walsh moved the whole of the BA network to the 
no-frills, surcharge-heavy model it had been arguing was prerequisite for keeping BA Connect in the air.  
As a result, IAG can now exploit its de facto long-haul monopolies without worrying about domestic subsistence 
services to deliver an operating profit margin of 13 per cent, about equal to  Ryanair and more than twice the 
margin booked by fellow flag carriers Lufthansa and Air France. Note also that Mr Walsh had an opportunity to 
improve Flybe’s management competency by taking the network back into BA’s control during the             salvage 
Markets not live, Wednesday 15th January 2020
auction of late 2018, but didn’t. Given all that, maybe piping down would be an option? Nope,             apparently it’s 
not:
British Airways’ owner IAG is filing a complaint to the EU over concerns that a rescue of Flybe breaches state 
aid rules ... 
Elsewhere!
 Provident Financial’s rallying in response to no big surprises in the doorstep lender’s year-end trading 
update. Profit in line with the £162m consensus (the range was £155m to £166m). Core business is in line, Vanquis 
Bank (rebuild-your-credit-score cards) is a bit better than management thought on favourable delinquency and cost 
control, Moneybarn (car credit) is a bit worse on higher impairments. Moneybarn also gets a new bilateral 
securitisation facility of up to £275m with NatWest Markets.
James Hamilton, Numis analyst, has long been a fan. He remains so, with a bit of fantasy M&A thrown in:
Overall, we see Provident as offering an attractive combination of recovery and growth, which is being valued 
at 9.2x current year earnings with a 6.4% dividend yield. Provident owns a very distinct, market-leading set of 
assets, which we see as offering significant potential, regardless of the corporate structure. We believe 
Provident could separate itself into a full service non-standard bank and a multi-product, multi-point sub-prime 
specialist lender. We see the potential for increasingly digitising the CCD business and the ability to broaden 
the reach of the bank, through M&A. By way of example, we believe that acquiring Amigo would add another 
market-leading asset to the bank that has the potential for very substantial synergies. As a bank we see 
financing synergies equal to 40% of Amigo’s market cap, cost synergies of 15-30% of Amigo’s market cap, and 
capital synergies equal to 32% of Amigo’s market cap. We see potential for synergies equal to more than all of 
Amigo’s market capitalisation and Amigo is already only valued at a PE of 4.2x. We see the core Provident 
story as being about growth and opportunity as opposed to recovery and regulation.
Games maker  Frontier Developments (whose founder David Braben may be the first CEO to have his work             
featured on a stamp) is down a bit on an in-line trading update. First-half profit of £32m to end November is 
down 50 per cent year on year, as expected, because the company does a game a year and last year had Jurassic 
World Evolution. Frontier’s fourth franchise, Planet Zoo, is said to be doing well immediately post launch with 
500,000 pre-Christmas sales so annual revenue is on course to be within the £65m to £73m consensus, Frontier 
says. 
Jefferies repeats “buy”, £15.35 target.
With £32m already came in for the 1H and the Christmas sales known to management, the major JWE dlc 
pack released in Dec as well as other post launch contents to boost 2H, we remain confident on our full year 
rev estimates of £71m, well within the FDEV reiterated expectation range of £65m to £73m, and the implied 
£39m sales in 2H feels comfortable. Looking beyond, we expect NT catalysts to be the company’s full 1H 
results on Feb 5th (a large receivable is expected given the timing of the Planet Zoo release, but will be 
reversed soon), potential new dlc releases, updates on Elite Dangerous’s major update as well as Planet 
Coaster’s console porting planned for FY21E release. Further out, more publishing deals leverage FDEV’s 
growing cash pile and marketing capacity.
Peel Hunt also repeats “buy”, £15 target.
Frontier’s success attracts high-quality developers at such a rate to allow the gap between game releases 
reduce; in FY22 it will actually release two. This quality and long track record now sees it as a goto partner for 
global IP that can drive supernormal performance. This halo has enabled it to expand into third-party publishing 
to grow its portfolio this way too. Moreover, while it has been downplaying cloud gaming, it has teased us on 
the potential: putting simulation in the cloud could change entertainment altogether.
 ADVFN, the crowdsourced signal-to-noise converter, has sent over its list of the ten most followed stocks for 
2020. “By analysing data from its Follow Feed product, an artificial intelligence tool developed for active private 
Markets not live, Wednesday 15th January 2020
investors, ADVFN can ascertain the most ‘followed’ stocks amongst its 36m userbase,” says the email, which brings 
to mind             this meme. 
And, inevitably, at #2 ....
1. Schroder UK Public Private Trust (née Woodford)2. Lekoil3. Galliford Try4. BP5. Lloyds6. ITM Power7. NMC 
Health8. Royal Dutch Shell9. Avon Rubber10. BT Group
If you’re still thirsty for  Lekoil news there’s a story             over here that includes a call to the legal counsel of 
Seawave, the alleged fixer on its             elusive $184m loan from the ersatz QIA.
The contact number on Seawave’s website leads to Holowesko Pyfrom Fletcher, a Bahamas-based law firm 
that provided the consultancy with its registered office. Seawave was incorporated in October 2016 and was 
struck off by the registrar of companies for default at the beginning of this year, the law firm said.Holowesko 
said that it was instructed by directors at Seawave to state that “neither the company nor any of its officers 
have any knowledge” of the alleged claims, adding that they had no knowledge of the allegations and will 
cooperate with the Bahamian authorities if necessary.
“We’ve been told to tell you that they say they don’t know about it” is, speaking generally, not the type of 
construction you hope to hear your lawyer using.
In sellside, Berenberg doesn’t like  TalkTalk. Starts with sell, 80p target. Shares are trading at 9x ev/ebitda versus 
a sector at 7.2x, which makes no sense “when it is not underpinned by infrastructure ownership, has too much debt, 
has greater forecast volatility than the sector, and operates in a deteriorating market” Berenberg says. There’s also 
this:
TalkTalk has a track record of recurring “oneoffs”. In the last nine years (during which its corporate structure 
has been broadly stable), it has recorded £458m of “one-off” costs that it strips out from the “headline 
financials” on which it bases management bonuses. As such, statutory EPS has on average been less than 
half of “headline EPS”. This led to years of dividend overdistribution, meaning that TalkTalk is now overlevered 
at 3.3x net debt/EBITDA, and prompted a £200m rights issue in 2018, in which chairman Charles Dunstone 
diluted his shareholding. TalkTalk has been repeatedly overoptimistic, achieving guidance just once in eight 
years (although that was last year). Finally, we believe any minority investor should take the time to look at 
TalkTalk’s board structure, which includes some directors classified as independent despite having worked for 
20 years with founder and chairman Charles Dunstone.
Citigroup’s not keen on  Hikma, the             price gouging pharma.
Hikma enjoys a deserved premium-rating, along with a near net cash balance sheet, though our analysis points 
to the earnings momentum story coming to an end. Low-mid single-digit consensus sales/EPS growth looks 
achievable. Management focus in 2020 will be on US Generics profitability and improving the group 
portfolio/pipeline. Our revised forecasts, valuation-framework, and FX assumptions drive new £19.80 PT and 
£29-15 bull-bear valuation. We downgrade to Neutral.
Also, some brokers have  started coverage of Saudi Aramco post the blackout expiring, as if their thoughts will 
make a fig of difference to that             stooge market. 
What are we missing? Tell us below.
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair lifts European airline sector after raising profit forecast
Ryanair lifts European airline sector after raising profit forecast
 
FT.com
January 10, 2020 Friday 7:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 386 words
Byline: Philip Georgiadis and Tanya Powley in London
Body
Ryanair has raised its profit guidance for this year after a better than expected Christmas and new year period 
thanks to last-minute bookings. 
The airline said on Friday that it now expected full-year pre-tax profit of between €950m and €1.05bn in its 2020 
fiscal year ending in March, up from its previously forecast range of €800m to €900m. Based on current trading, it 
expects to hit the midpoint of the new range. 
Shares in Ryanair rose 8.5 per cent in early trading on Friday, while easyJet, British Airways owner IAG and 
Lufthansa also recorded gains as investors bet that Ryanair’s rivals will also have had a good Christmas. 
The latest figures are a welcome boost to Ryanair, which has suffered in the industry-wide disruption caused by the 
grounding of Boeing’s 737 Max jets after two fatal crashes.
It has reduced its forecast for the number of passengers it expects to carry in its 2021 fiscal year twice, as it now 
expects to receive only 10 Max jets for the summer of 2020 rather than the 20 it previously planned. It has also 
outlined plans to close some of its bases and in December reduced its forecast for passenger traffic next year by 
1m, to 156m. 
Daniel Roeska, aviation analyst, said: “EU airlines, and especially short-haul carriers, should make hay while the 
sun shines. With the Max still grounded and capacity growth at lower levels, this may indicate a better yield 
environment through winter and a more supportive trajectory for sector profits.”
Ryanair lifts European airline sector after raising profit forecast
Analysts at broker Liberum said they expected easyJet in particular could have benefited from similar trends, 
although they warned that the effect of the Max grounding and the failure of travel company Thomas Cook meant 
that capacity growth in the short-haul market was “especially restrained”. 
Ryanair said on Friday that early bookings for this quarter were 1 per cent ahead of last year, with higher than 
expected fares. It also increased its forecast for passenger numbers this year from 153m to 154m. 
However, it warned that the outlook for its Austrian airline Laudamotion was less rosy — it has faced price 
competition in its local market so average fares over Christmas were lower than expected. Laudamotion’s net loss 
for the year is expected to widen from under €80m to about €90m.
Ryanair will publish third-quarter results on February 3.
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Opening Quote: Fashion retailers Superdry and Joules have a Christmas to forget
Opening Quote: Fashion retailers Superdry and Joules have a Christmas to 
forget
 
FT.com
January 10, 2020 Friday 9:29 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 583 words
Byline: Gordon Smith
Body
FT subscribers can  click here to receive Opening quote by email.
Not a good look from fashion retailers on Friday.
Superdry said subdued consumer demand and discounting on the high street could wipe out profits this year. 
Before Friday morning, the retailer’s joint brokers had predicted full-year profits of between £30m and £33m. 
However, in a trading update covering the period from Black Friday to last weekend, Superdry said underlying profit 
before tax would now be between zero and £10m for the year to the end of April.
The warning is a severe blow for Julian Dunkerton, the co-founder of Superdry, who returned to run the company 
last year after a boardroom coup and boasted in October that he had “saved Christmas”.
There is a small crumb of comfort for Mr Dunkerton from Joules, one of the London stock market’s better regarded 
fashion brands. It too had a torrid time over Christmas and blamed “disappointing online sales” caused by lack of 
stock for its profits warning. Investors have wiped a third off the company’s value in early trading.
Sportswear retailer JD Sports Fashion was forced to look beyond the UK’s shores for its growth. 
Opening Quote: Fashion retailers Superdry and Joules have a Christmas to forget
In the supermarket sector the news is better, of sorts. Discount retailer Lidl reported an 11 per cent increase in 
sales over the Christmas period. Good news for the German group, although not so positive for UK rivals Tesco, 
and J Sainsbury.
Briefly 
Elsewhere, Ryanair has raised its earnings guidance. The low-cost airline enjoyed a better than expected 
Christmas and New Year period, with high sales from passengers who left it to the last minute to book — at better 
than expected yields.
Reforms to simplify the easy access cash savings market have been unveiled by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Our personal finance team look at what the proposals mean for savers. 
Finally, more on the story everyone has been talking about this week: Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s decision 
to spend more of their time in North America. In the announcement the royal couple declared an intent to find 
“financial independence”. This piece looks at how the Duke and Duchess of Sussex might go about achieving that 
goal.
Beyond the Square Mile 
Boeing employees mocked regulators and downplayed the need for more expensive simulator training with its 737 
Max jet, according to a series of internal messages that were made public on Thursday. “This aeroplane is 
designed by clowns who in turn are supervised by monkeys,” one employee wrote in a series of embarrassing 
revelations for the aircraft maker. 
The Consumer Electronics Show is a good place to spot some of the biggest trends shaping the tech industry. 
What have we learnt from this week’s extravaganza? Here are three trends that stood out.
The majority of hedge funds did well in 2019 but the S&P 500 did better. With the exception of Bill Ackman’s 
Pershing Square, which had a banner 2019 after a four-year run of negative performance, many major US and 
European funds lagged behind the broader market. 
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Michael Mackenzie
Recent comments from Mark Carney have revived concerns the pound is on a downward trajectory.
FT View
Despite Willie Walsh’s combative approach to running British Airways it has delivered results. He deserves credit 
for succeeding where his predecessors did not. But Luis Gallego, Mr Walsh’s successor, will need to restore the 
identity of BA.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here.
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
IAG/Willie Walsh: dropping the pilot
IAG/Willie Walsh: dropping the pilot
 
FT.com
January 9, 2020 Thursday
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 436 words
Body
Pugnacious ex-pilot Willie Walsh is  handing over the controls of International Airlines Group earlier than expected. 
He deserves the nervous ripple of applause captains receive when landing an airliner safely in tricky conditions. 
Shareholders have trebled their money since he took over at British Airways - not bad in Europe’s tough airlines 
industry.
The challenge for successor Luis Gallego is to win the support of frequent flyers and trades unionists. Many of them 
will be glad to see Mr Walsh go. Cost-cutting reminiscent of Ryanair spawned the jibe he had turned British Airways 
into “Bryanair”.
Financially, IAG is cruising, however. Mr Gallego shares credit for that. As boss of Iberia, he pulled the Spanish flag 
carrier out of crash trajectory and made it one of the most profitable airlines anywhere. Its return on invested capital 
in 2018 of 13.2 per cent exceeded that of almost every rival, short or long haul. 
IAG’s is nearly four points higher, reflecting BA’s efficiency and the success of Mr Walsh’s strategy of “consolidate 
or die”. Profitability has improved dramatically since 2010. Operating margins have risen from low single digits to an 
estimated 13 per cent in 2019. 
The  Spaniard’s first task will be the integration of IAG’s €1bn November purchase,  Air Europa. This should 
strengthen the group’s hold on flight routes to Latin America and add to its hub at Madrid. Air Europa will need time 
to bed down within the Iberia group.
IAG/Willie Walsh: dropping the pilot
Mr Walsh needed toughness to tackle union members, notably well-paid pilots. Many European flag carriers failed 
to address legacy costs and are accordingly on their last legs. At IAG, a pension plan review could save hundreds 
of millions of pounds annually by 2023.
Aggression is a problem for a boss when it becomes reflexive. Years of cost cutting triggered BA’s first pilot strike 
last year. Cabin crew walked out in 2017.  
Mr Gallego needs to rethink what the BA brand means, as well as staff relations. This is no longer the world’s 
favourite airline. Rival Lufthansa made it into Skytraxx’s top 10 airlines ranking in the past two years. BA remains 
stuck one decile down. 
A lighter hand on the controls is now required. Consolidation is becoming tougher for IAG to pursue without 
annoying anti-trust regulators. Mr Gallego will be helped by the growing maturity of low-cost rivals such as Ryanair. 
The dire carbon profile of air travel is a problem all airlines will have to deal with, and is not special to IAG.
Opening Quote is a daily City of London briefing delivered directly to your inbox as the market opens. Click  here to 
receive it five days a week
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Link executive pay to future profit, not historic CEO ratios
Link executive pay to future profit, not historic CEO ratios
 
FT.com
January 6, 2020 Monday 6:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 818 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
For all the investor protests about executive pay in 2019 — think Standard Life Aberdeen, Standard Chartered, 
Bovis, Ryanair — have the arguments really changed since the late 1980s? 
Back then, student Lombard was listening to leftwing indie band McCarthy  intoning (sarcastically): “You know, to 
be in business, to run a company, you really need to use your head; Show me a man of money, and I will show you 
a genius.” On Monday, a more seasoned Lombard was listening to rightwing think-tank The Institute of Economic 
Affairs opining (seriously): “In today’s globalised economy, the role of the chief executive has become significantly 
more important . . . [in] our obsession with high pay, we dismiss the achievements of successful CEOs.” 
It did not scan quite as well, but it provided a riposte to a new report on bosses’ remuneration from the High Pay 
Centre and personnel body the CIPD, which found FTSE 100 chief executives have been paid 117 times more than 
the average worker (or more if one disputes their calculation of a CEO’s pay-rate based on 320 12-hour days per 
year, ie working three out of four weekends, full-time). 
To the IEA, paying the going rate for a star CEO is in employees’ interests, too, as “the successes, failures and 
sudden departures of CEOs can increase or diminish a company’s worth by billions of pounds — which can also 
result in the gain or loss of thousands of jobs”. If that sounded familiar, it is because it is a reprise of the Institute’s 
2015 musings when Tidjane Thiam left Prudential for a highly paid CEO role at Credit Suisse, knocking £1.3bn off 
the Pru’s market value and adding £2bn to the Swiss bank’s.
Link executive pay to future profit, not historic CEO ratios
To business minister Andrea Leadsom, the more important fact was that “the numbers are better” — in last year’s 
report, the CEO pay ratio was 133 times — and mandatory reporting of the figures will “increase transparency 
around how directors meet their responsibilities”. If that sounded familiar, it is because it played to the same themes 
as the prime minister’s recent pledges about “One Nation” government and workers’ rights.
However, both are arguably wrong.
Hiring highly paid CEOs might lead to short-term share price movements, but research from Vlerick Business 
School shows there is no relationship between highly paid CEOs and profit. It concludes that “better performing 
firms do not pay their CEOs more”. And it is profit performance, not share prices, that determine long-term 
investment returns and job creation.
Making pay ratios more transparent will not focus directors’ or investors’ minds, either. Ratios are historic. Pay 
votes are forward looking and often on complex long-term incentive plans. Simpler, profit-related pay deals are a 
better way to align long-term investor, employee and executive interests. 
How could a politician not realise this? To quote McCarthy’s satirical lyrics: “You know, to be able to run the 
government, you need a bloody good brain; To be an MP you must be someone well above the common run.”
Aldi: is the future bright?
Aldi, the German-owned discount supermarket chain, has reported £1bn of UK Christmas sales for the first time — 
and attributed much of its success to an advertising campaign led by animated mascot Kevin the Carrot and singer 
Robbie Williams. However, if certain analysts are to be believed, both of the popular orange performers may be 
becoming liabilities. 
Shore Capital has suggested that Aldi UK’s profit could be adversely affected by higher advertising costs, noting 
that “the Group, fronted by Kevin the Carrot, invested a lot in marketing running into Christmas”. It probably had to 
invest a similar amount to sign Robbie, assuming his agent is as good as Kevin’s.
At the same time, Shore pointed out that Kevin-themed merchandise — ie actual bags of carrots — had been “very 
aggressively priced” because of competition. But even at these prices, there may have been surplus. “Aldi was 
seemingly very generous with charitable food donations  . . . whilst truly commendable . . .  does this imply relatively 
high wastage levels?” Shore wondered.
Given Aldi’s operating margin “compressed notably in 2018” — to 1.75 per cent — the analysts reckoned 
profitability “may well have been challenged” this time around.
Aldi insiders hinted that its UK margin in full-year 2019 would be better. Still, with like-for-like festive sales estimated 
to have been only 1-2 per cent up despite taking these hits to margin, Kevin and Robbie’s biggest fans will be the 
other supermarkets  . . . because the costly orange duo are making rivals’ performance look OK. 
Sports results
Its last auditor quit over tax concerns. Another auditor declined to work with it over governance concerns. Its new 
auditor has just admitted to mistakes concerning its own accounts. So, there is only one word for how Sports Direct 
investors will be feeling when they read its 2020 results: concerned. 
matthew.vincent@ft.com
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Economics class: Ryanair to axe up to 3,000 jobs as it warns over slow recovery
Economics class: Ryanair to axe up to 3,000 jobs as it warns over slow 
recovery
 
FT.com
January 5, 2020 Sunday 5:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 125 words
Body
Specification: Theory of the firm, costs, revenues and profits
Click to read the article below and then answer the questions:
Ryanair to axe up to 3,000 jobs as it warns over slow recovery
•
Calculate the number of workers that will be laid off if Ryanair cuts 15% of its workforce. (Line 1)
•
Use a diagram to show the impact of the coronavirus on Ryanair's costs, revenues and profits.
•
Explain what Michael O'Leary meant when he said, in light of the bailout some airlines would receive: "the 
whole competitive market has now been completely turned on its head".
•
Use a diagram to show how cutting costs might help airlines like Ryanair stay in business.
•
Assess the impact the coronavirus will have on airplane manufacturers like Boeing.
Rob Bahr, Eton College
Load-Date: May 6, 2020
End of Document
Carlos Ghosn is just the latest CEO to skip out in style
Carlos Ghosn is just the latest CEO to skip out in style
 
FT.com
January 3, 2020 Friday 1:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 660 words
Byline: Jonathan Guthrie
Body
Carlos Ghosn is accused of a big fiddle in Japan. But a double bass did not feature in his  escape. Pity. The claim 
he hid inside a musical instrument case would have been the most piquant detail in accounts of his audacious flit. 
The former chief executive of Nissan otherwise stuck to the time-honoured traditions of tycoons on the lam. He fled 
by air to a country where his status as an investor meant he would be welcome. 
Countries popular with business fugitives also tend to be helpfully sanguine over allegations of financial impropriety. 
Mr Ghosn is now in Lebanon. Kobi Alexander, former CEO of New York-based Comverse Technology, headed for 
Namibia in 2006. Asil Nadir, a prominent UK businessman, holed up in northern Cyprus for 17 years.
Japan, in contrast, is a law-abiding place. This could explain the apparent ease with which Mr Ghosn skipped house 
arrest and bail. A surveillance camera was watching his front door. The Japanese police may have assumed no one 
would be so underhand as to sneak out the back. Game, set and match to Mr Ghosn’s private security contractors. 
They can now add “executive outplacement” to their list of services.
Mr Ghosn would hardly have deigned to masquerade as a double bass, though. It is a background orchestral 
instrument. He is accustomed to starring roles. It is easier to picture him escaping inside a concert grand piano — a 
Bosendorfer, or a Steinway. He travelled to Turkey aboard a private jet, as you would expect of a high-status 
fugitive. 
Carlos Ghosn is just the latest CEO to skip out in style
Less glamorously, a 2017 Ryanair flight to Greece was the last known whereabouts of  Ruja Ignatova, a self-styled 
cryptocurrency entrepreneur indicted for fraud in the US. Her OneCoin business, widely condemned as a Ponzi 
scheme, attracted an estimated €4bn from investors. Like the money, Ms Ignatova could now be anywhere.
Business people who are in hot water have a habit of disappearing. Pretending to be dead is one refinement, 
usefully sapping the resolve of would-be pursuers. David Elias, whose SLS Capital was implicated in City frauds, 
was  reportedly alive and well in 2011, two years after his obituary was             published. 
Possibly the second best-known subject of premature death reports (after Mark Twain) was John Stonehouse. The 
British businessman and politician faked drowning on a Miami beach in 1974. It later emerged he was a Communist 
spy. This came as a terrible shock to the British establishment as he had not even attended Cambridge university. 
But it is tricky defending your reputation from beyond the grave, even if you are not interred in one. Since he is still 
officially alive, Mr Ghosn is able to
vehemently deny all allegations against him. He blames these on a power struggle within Nissan. 
Lebanon is a natural bolt hole. Though French, Mr Ghosn is of Lebanese heritage and has investments there, 
including a winery. German-Finnish digital maverick  Kim Dotcom  took a bigger risk in applying for New Zealand 
residency. He received this under “investor plus” rules, but later failed a “good character” test to buy land. His 
beneficence has included funding a firework display at Auckland harbour. After he fled the US, Mr Alexander 
invested heavily in the Namibian tech sector — which frankly needs it more than the latest Silicon Valley start-up. 
Both men were then embroiled in lengthy US extradition proceedings.
Handily for Mr Ghosn, Lebanon has no extradition treaty with Japan. Some version of the charges against him may 
be heard in Lebanon, but fugitive executives can only achieve full closure by facing their accusers on home ground. 
That takes guts: escaping only requires nerve. Mr Alexander and Mr Nadir both came back and were duly rewarded 
with jail terms. Knowing that, Mr Ghosn may understandably opt to stay put.
Letter in response to this article:
Ocean liner is stylish but too slow to escape justice / From David Boughey, Professor in International Business 
History, University of Exeter Business School, UK
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Where to go in 2020: an insiders’ guide
Where to go in 2020: an insiders’ guide
 
FT.com
January 1, 2020 Wednesday 5:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2020 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 3498 words
Byline: FT panel
Body
Armenia
Georgia has enjoyed soaring visitor numbers, and a string of new airline routes, since it was tipped in the equivalent 
of this article two years ago. Visits by international tourists during the first 11 months of 2019 were up 19.4 per cent 
compared with the same period in 2017. Meanwhile its southern neighbour Armenia has remained relatively off the 
radar — attracting fewer than a quarter of Georgia’s visitor numbers — though that now seems to be on the verge 
of change. 
Four members of our panel picked Armenia as one to watch in 2020 (Wild Frontiers says its forward bookings are 
up 100 per cent compared with a year go) and the country will get its first low-cost airline links with western Europe. 
Ryanair, Wizz and Air Baltic are all due to launch flights, connecting the capital Yerevan with cities including Milan, 
Rome, Berlin and Vienna.
The main draw for visitors is the country’s extraordinary collection of medieval monasteries and churches, many of 
them set among dramatic mountains. Geghard monastery, for example, was cut into the rock of the Upper Azat 
valley and was completed in the 13th century. It is now a Unesco world heritage site, as are the monasteries at 
Haghpat and Sanahin.
But Yerevan and the wine-lands are also fascinating. “Yerevan is one of the region’s most exuberant and endearing 
cities,” says Justin Wateridge of Steppes Travel. “Both country and capital are an unexpected delight that you need 
to discover before the secret gets out.”
Where to go in 2020: an insiders’ guide
Tom Marchant of Black Tomato recommends the newly opened Alexander hotel in Yerevan, part of Marriott’s 
Luxury Collection, as well as stopping for a degustation at the Ararat Brandy Company.
Where I’m going: Antonia Bolingbroke-Kent
Next year my boyfriend and I are going to live in Georgia for six months. We’ll be based in Tbilisi, and the idea is to 
explore the lesser known creases and folds of the Caucasus Mountains. I’m particularly looking forward to 
discovering the Racha region in the north-west.
I’ve been to the country maybe four or five times. I don’t normally go back to places, but I love the food, the wine 
and the vivaciousness of the people. 
Generally, I’m trying to fly less — and I no longer fly for personal journeys. I’ve been on expeditions in the past 
using tuk tuks and motorbikes, but this time we’ve got a very boring Subaru 4x4 for the mountains and we’re going 
to drive from the UK, going through Turkey and Bulgaria — stopping off for a bit of skiing — on our way to Georgia.
I have started really thinking about how I travel. I went on holiday recently by train to the south of France from 
Bristol. People often think if you stop flying it means you stop travelling — but that’s not the case. It makes you think 
in a different way; overland travel is so rewarding. You see so much more; it’s a much deeper way of travelling.
Antonia Bolingbroke-Kent’s latest book is ‘Land of the Dawn-lit Mountains’ (Simon & Schuster)
Chad
For travellers who really want to get off the beaten track, Chad is ideal. More than five times the size of the UK, the 
entire country gets fewer visitors in a year than Tate Modern gets in a week. And that is despite glorious desert and 
mountain scenery, fascinating ancient rock art and the closest “big five” safari park to Europe.
The bad news is that there is a reason for such a dearth of visitors: the UK Foreign Office advises against “all but 
essential” travel to most of the country, and “all travel” to the rest, highlighting the potential risk of crime and 
terrorism; the US State Department suggests potential visitors “reconsider”.
Despite that, several tour operators tip it as a rising destination for the coming year, a recommendation that is 
largely down to the work of African Parks, a South African-based non-profit conservation organisation. In 2010 it 
was invited by the Chadian government to sign a long-term agreement to manage Zakouma National Park, a 1,200 
sq mile park in the south-east of the country that had been ransacked by horseback-riding poaching gangs. 
With the help of EU funding, African Parks restored security (elephant deaths fell from 4,000 in the eight years to 
2010, to just 24 since then), opened 17 schools and created employment at the three tourist camps. 
In 2017, the government put an expanded area around the park into African Parks control, then in February 2018 
the organisation was given responsibility for the Ennedi Natural and Cultural Reserve, a 15,500 sq mile expanse of 
sandstone mountains in the north of the country, filled with dramatic canyons, cliffs and arches as well as rock art 
that dates back 7,000 years. “Declared a World Heritage Site in 2016, the Ennedi is a vast wilderness with a savage 
beauty,” says Will Jones of Journeys By Design.
“Exploring it using private mobile camps, then transferring to Zakouma is an extraordinary combination.” Alice 
Daunt says she will be visiting this year “for its deserts, nomadic people, rock art and formations” but also thanks to 
“a chance encounter with a London Uber driver from N’Djamena.”
UK
Britain may be preparing to leave the EU, but the British national tourism agency is predicting a record year in 2020. 
Visit Britain says international tourist numbers will hit 39.7m, the highest ever and almost 5 per cent up on 2018. 
Particularly important to the growth are emerging tourism markets in the east — Visit Britain’s data shows flight 
bookings to the UK for the first half of the year are up 33 per cent from China, and 22 per cent from south Asia.
Where to go in 2020: an insiders’ guide
While the reduced value of sterling has helped make the UK cheaper, the big draw this year is likely to be the 
country’s literary and artistic heritage. 2020 is the 250th anniversary of William Wordsworth’s birth (marked by a 
£6.2m project to expand the museum at his former home, Dove Cottage at Grasmere in the Lake District) and the 
150th anniversary of Charles Dicken’s death (with a five-day festival in Rochester among many others). Meanwhile 
the lack of a significant anniversary does not seem to have deterred Jane Austen fans: a 10-day festival is planned 
in Bath in September, there is a nine-day festival in Hampshire in June, and yet another film version of Emma is 
due for release in February, starring Anya Taylor-Joy and a string of fabulous stately homes.
Meanwhile, a Game of Thrones Studio Tour is due to open in Banbridge, Northern Ireland, this spring and 
Glastonbury celebrates its 50th anniversary with headliners including Paul McCartney and Diana Ross.
Where I’m going: Iain Sinclair
In 2020, my travelling is likely to focus on somewhere I’ve not really been at all — north-east Scotland and the 
Orkneys.
Most of my travelling in the past has been in the orbit of London, but unusually for me I’ve been in Peru this year 
[2019] on something of a ghost hunt to research my next book. I was following an expedition that my great-
grandfather made in 1891 and wrote about and left a map of. Now I’m examining the territory he came from, and 
was forced to leave during the time of the Highland Clearances. 
I need to visit places like Banff and Forres in north-east Scotland and ultimately the Orkney Islands to track him 
down. I’ll be up there for a few weeks, around April, May, June, and of all the places I intend to visit, Orkney is 
probably the most romantic; it pushes back to the origins of life in these islands. I’m very keen to look at those 
ancient settlements. But from Aberdeen on, it’ll all be new and strange to me. 
Iain Sinclair’s latest books are ‘The Last London’ (Oneworld) and ‘Living with Buildings’ (Wellcome Collection)
Norway
A growing awareness of climate change has brought the Arctic regions to the forefront of many minds. On one 
hand, the vulnerability of the ice caps, wildlife and traditional ways of life inspires an increasingly emotional reaction 
— the endangered glaciers pitied in the same way as the elephants and rhinos of east Africa. On the other, in a 
warming world, spending a summer holiday somewhere cold rather than hot seems increasingly attractive. 
Above all, the Arctic has become so much more visible: consider, for example, that in 48 hours over Christmas, the 
BBC’s output included radio broadcasts from Greenland and Iceland, a two-hour “slow TV” programme following a 
Sami sleigh ride through Arctic Norway, and a film about the disappearing skills of the Inuit, “an elegy to the world 
that is melting away”. 
Even Hollywood is leveraging the appeal of the north: Disney’s new children’s movie Frozen 2 draws heavily on 
Sami culture, myths and landscapes while the forthcoming James Bond movie No Time to Die, out in April, includes 
snowy sequences filmed in Norway.
While countries across the north are experiencing growing visitor numbers, Norway is especially well placed to 
benefit, with infrastructure that makes it straightforward to reach the Arctic, and an abundance of fjords, mountains 
and islands. Set among them are a growing number of landmark architectural projects by the Oslo-based practice 
Snohetta, a master at creating buildings that manage to be both appropriate to the stark beauty of their 
surroundings as well as catnip for social media. 
Among them are Europe’s first underwater restaurant, launched in March 2019, the National Opera house in Oslo, 
a remote pavilion for watching passing reindeer at Hjerkinn, and the forthcoming Svart, a circular hotel just above 
the Arctic Circle, which isn’t due to open until 2022 but is already generating a buzz.
“Interest in all things Nordic continues to grow,” says Georgina Hancock at Discover the World, who tips Senja 
Island, to the west of Tromso, as “a quieter, under-explored alternative to the well-trodden Lofoten Islands”. 
Where to go in 2020: an insiders’ guide
At Red Savannah, George Morgan-Grenville reports forward bookings for Norway up 33 per cent compared with 
this point a year ago. Both agree about the appeal of Svalbard, which in 2020 marks 100 years of Norwegian 
sovereignty, and offers the chance to visit the world’s northernmost city, school, museum, piano and much more. 
“Nowhere is more wild,” says Morgan-Grenville.
Turkey
Tourism in Turkey collapsed in 2015 and 2016 in response to terrorist attacks and political instability, with visitor 
numbers falling almost 40 per cent. Those security fears have now eased, and tourist numbers are rebounding — 
helped by a significant devaluation of the lira (a euro currently buys about 6.6 Turkish lira, up from about 2 lira a 
decade ago). 
That exchange rate has made citybreaks more affordable in Istanbul, with its constantly expanding roster of luxury 
hotels. Recent additions include Sofitel on Taksim square, which opened in November complete with 33 Hermés-
designed suites) and the Six Senses Kocataş Mansions, which soft-launched the same month, housed in two 19th-
century mansions and with far-reaching views over the Bosphorus.
The longer term trend, however, is for adventure-seeking tourists to look beyond Istanbul and the Mediterranean 
seaside resorts. Steppes highlight the move of the World Nomad Games this year from a remote yurt village in 
Kyrgyzstan to the Turkish city of Bursa, making it far easier for international visitors to watch events including kok-
boru, a sort of central Asian equivalent of rugby, with competitors on horseback and a headless goat in place of a 
ball (the date for the event has yet to be announced). 
In the far east, the ancient archaeological sites of Upper Mesopotamia are attracting growing interest, with 
numerous operators offering expert-led group tours. Meanwhile skiers in search of perfect powder and a complete 
absence of crowds are travelling to Turkey Heliski’s base in Ayder, close to the south-eastern shore of the Black 
Sea, where visitors this winter are expected to include the star Swiss free-rider Sam Anthamatten.
Where I’m going: Jason Webster
There are places I’ve visited which, in a curious way, I still feel I haven’t actually been to, haven’t quite absorbed or 
connected with. Equally, there are cities and countries I have yet to travel to which I feel I already know, indeed are 
somehow a part of me. 
The two most important of these for me are Istanbul and Buenos Aires. I’m saving Buenos Aires — where I plan to 
commune with the spirit of Borges and have dreams of becoming a gaucho — for a future date (ie when there’s 
more cash). So for 2020 it’s Istanbul.
My long-standing fascination with Spain stems in large part from the country’s experience of being a point of contact 
between East and West. Istanbul shares this, if at the other end of the Mediterranean. 
So while I see myself there exploring the usual sites, it’s more about picking something up — an energy, an 
aesthetic, a harmonic — which seems to be produced when different cultures rub together in a particular way.
Japan
Data from eDreams ODIGEO, which claims to be Europe’s biggest online travel agency, suggests a surge in the 
number of European travellers heading to Tokyo in 2020. Across its various websites, forward bookings are up 90 
per cent compared with the same period a year ago. There is one obvious reason: the Olympics and Paralympics, 
due to take place in late July and early August. Some estimates suggest the Games might attract an additional 10m 
visitors, and there has been a rush of hotel openings in expectation.
Tourism in the country is already soaring: 31.2m foreign travellers visited in 2018, up from 8.6m in 2010. In 2016 
the government set a target of reaching 40m visitors by 2020, and 60m by 2030. The downside has been the 
concentration of visitors in the honeypot sites of Tokyo, Kyoto and Osaka, something the national tourist office has 
tried to counter with publicity campaigns promoting lesser-known regions, and which should be helped by new flight 
Where to go in 2020: an insiders’ guide
routes including, for example, Finnair’s direct service to Sapporo, on the northern island of Hokkaido, which 
launched last month.
“Quite apart from the Olympics, Japan is increasingly on the radar of those seeking alternative, experiential travel 
and a completely unhomogenised cultural identity,” says George Morgan-Grenville of Red Savannah. 
He suggests 2020 hotspots will include the Samurai districts of Kanazawa, the scenic coastline of Noto, and the art 
museums of Naoshima Island.
Uruguay
“Uruguay has always been considered a seasonal destination, but is just as special outside the December/January 
rush,” says Harry Hastings of Plan South America. “It’s ideal for ‘slow travel’, with cycling and riding trips through 
olive groves, vineyards, fishing villages and the open farmland of the south, stopping for sea swims, picnics, wine 
tasting and visits to artists’ studios.”
Home to fewer than 3.5m people, the country has long been in the shadow of its neighbours, Brazil and Argentina, 
with only the sceney seaside resorts of Punta del Este and José Ignacio attracting much international attention, and 
even then only in summer. 
Now, though, small numbers of visitors are beginning to look beyond those hotspots, to the remote beaches of 
Rocha state, the surfer hang-out of La Pedrera, the old Portuguese city of Colonia del Sacramento and sleepy 
Carmelo, surrounded by vineyards, wineries and tasting rooms and known by some as South America’s answer to 
Tuscany. 
Visitors should explore rich, full-bodied reds made with Tannat grapes, produced from vines descended from 
cuttings across the Atlantic in the 19th century before phylloxera devastated the originals in southern France.
Where I’m going: Levison Wood
The journey I’m really excited about next summer is a road trip from Alaska to California. I’ll be in Alaska in August 
giving a talk on board the QE2 and I’ve given myself a couple of weeks in between jobs to travel down the west 
coast of Canada and the US to San Francisco before I head to the Burning Man festival with some friends.
I’ve been to California before, but never seen the rest of the west coast so I’m looking forward to exploring, 
particularly Oregon and the Rockies and seeing Mount Washington in the flesh, spotting bears and experiencing 
some real wilderness.
Levison Wood’s latest book is ‘Arabia: A Journey Through The Heart of the Middle East’ (Hodder & Stoughton)
Dominica
The mountainous Caribbean island has staged a remarkable recovery from the devastation of Hurricane Maria in 
2017, while promotional campaigns billing it as “the nature island” seem more in tune with the times than some of 
its glitzier neighbours.
Rather than white sands and smart restaurants, the draw here is the pristine rainforests, remote mountain gorges 
and waterfalls. The tourist board is keen to distinguish it as a place for adventure travellers and in particular as a 
place for hiking: the country is home to the longest walking route in the Caribbean, the 185km Waitukubuli trail and 
a system of free “hike passports” was introduced in 2019 for visitors to record their walks. 
The government has been working to restore trails damaged in the hurricane, while also introducing a string of 
environmental policies (plastic straws and cutlery were banned last year; plastic bags are due to be banned outright 
in 2020).
Where to go in 2020: an insiders’ guide
While eco-tourism remains the focus, the accommodation options are moving increasingly upmarket. Secret Bay, a 
glorious clifftop retreat that closed when the hurricane struck, reopened in November 2018 with major upgrades. It 
now comprises six villas built from sustainably sourced tropical hardwood, each of which has a private plunge pool 
and sea-views from the covered terraces.
The Kempinski group’s Cabrits Resort, a five-star beach hotel surrounded by the tropical forest of Cabrits National 
Park, opened in October 2019 while the Anichi Resort, part of Marriott’s Autograph collection, is due to open in 
2020.
Where I’m going: Sara Wheeler
I’m looking to my next book and I’d like to go somewhere I can sit still for a while and just explore a small area. I’ve 
always liked America and Americans so I’m going to spend a year in the Bronx. It will be a book in four sections, 
following the four seasons. I’m thinking of starting in February. 
The Bronx is 40 sq miles, and there are 160 languages spoken there. Having gone out into the world in the past, I’m 
planning to let the world come to me. I’ve been to the Bronx briefly twice, and I liked it, but I don’t know anybody 
there. I’ve got somewhere half organised to stay — I’m going to rent a room in someone’s house — and then I plan 
to just move around and get to know the area. 
There’s a really interesting history to the Bronx, loads of interesting people came from there and it’ll be election year 
too, so I don’t think I’ll be short of topics or stories. But it is being able to walk a few miles and hear so many 
languages that really appeals to me.
Sara Wheeler’s latest book is ‘Mud and Stars: Travels in Russia with Pushkin and Other Geniuses of the Golden 
Age’ (Jonathan Cape)
Albania
“Montenegro was the star of 2019 but the whole region is on the rise,” says Jonny Bealby of Wild Frontiers, who 
reports bookings for 2020 up 15 per cent compared with the same point a year ago. “Visitors are drawn to the 
mountains, canyons and rivers, the sparkling coastline, ancient towns, Greek and Roman ruins, Ottoman citadels 
and rural hospitality.”
Trekkers are finding the Accursed Mountains in the north of the country — off limits during the country’s years of 
communist isolationism and during the Kosovo war — offer an alternative to the Alps with almost no-tourist 
development. Meanwhile, historical tours are taking growing numbers beyond the Unesco World Heritage site of 
Butrint to explore the numerous Roman, Byzantine and Ottoman sites throughout the country. 
And, on a totally different note, the Kala music festival, a week-long seaside party on the southern coast at Dhërmi, 
is putting Albania on the map for young travellers, in the same way events such as the Garden, Outlook and Sonus 
festivals did for Croatia.
It is a measure of the Albanian authorities’ enthusiasm for tourism that prime minister Edi Rama attended the first 
Kala festival in 2018. “People think of it as a place where you get robbed or killed,” Rama told a poolside press 
conference, The Guardian reported. “But the stigma has helped us. When someone visits and gets out alive, they 
realise it’s paradise!” The figures appear to back him up: foreign visitor numbers for the first 11 months of 2019 
topped 6.1m, up 8.3 per cent on the same period in 2018, and up from 1.9m for the full year of 2009.
The panel
Jonny Bealby is the founder of  Wild Frontiers 
Alice Daunt is the founder of  Daunt Travel 
Georgina Hancock is marketing director of  Discover the World
Where to go in 2020: an insiders’ guide
Harry Hastings is the founder of  Plan South America
Will Jones is managing director of  Journeys by Design 
Tom Marchant is co-founder of  Black Tomato 
George Morgan-Grenville is founder of  Red Savannah 
Justin Wateridge is managing director of  Steppes Travel 
Follow  @FTLifeArts on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first. Listen and subscribe to Culture Call, a 
transatlantic conversation from the FT, at             ft.com/culture-call or on             Apple Podcasts
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair fails in effort to block former executive’s move to easyJet
Ryanair fails in effort to block former executive’s move to easyJet
 
FT.com
December 23, 2019 Monday 2:40 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 736 words
Byline: Arthur Beesley in Dublin
Body
Ryanair has failed in an attempt to prevent easyJet from hiring its former chief operating officer, after a Dublin judge 
refused to block the appointment. 
In a ruling in the Irish high court on Monday, Mr Justice Senan Allen said Ryanair’s action against Peter Bellew 
“must be dismissed”. 
Mr Bellew, a 30-year aviation veteran who resigned from his role at the Irish low-cost carrier in July, is due to join its 
UK rival on January 1. His appointment was seen as a  coup for easyJet as competition intensifies in the European 
short-haul market. 
Ryanair said it had “instructed its lawyers to immediately appeal this decision”. Mr Bellew, who was present in court 
for the ruling, left without making a comment. 
During eight days of hearings this month, the court was told of bitter clashes between Mr Bellew and Ryanair’s 
longtime chief executive Michael O’Leary. 
Mr Bellew left Ryanair in 2015 after a nine-year stint and later  became chief executive of Malaysia Airlines. But Mr 
O’Leary asked him to  return to Ryanair in late 2017 as the Irish airline confronted a rostering crisis that led to 
thousands of flight cancellations. The debacle ultimately led Ryanair to recognise trade unions for the first time in its 
30-year history. 
Ryanair fails in effort to block former executive’s move to easyJet
Relations between Mr Bellew and Mr O’Leary soured. In November 2018 the chief executive complained that Mr 
Bellow’s performance in a number of respects was unacceptable. 
Mr Bellew said in court that Mr O’Leary had told him “you are f**king useless” at meetings with top executives. But 
in his ruling the judge said the assertion had not been put to Mr O’Leary and added that Mr Bellew had shouted into 
the court microphone and “appeared to me to be playing to the gallery”. 
Mr Bellew quit last summer to join easyJet, prompting a swift court challenge from Ryanair to prevent him going to a 
rival airline. 
The judge on Monday said the case was “hard fought on both sides”. He noted Mr O’Leary was inclined to use 
language that “would not be heard at a vicarage tea party” but said he was the boss and entitled to set the pace he 
expected from executives paid about €1m per year. 
His 73-page ruling came after Ryanair argued that Mr Bellew agreed not to work for any airline for one year after 
leaving the company when he accepted share options in June 2018. However, the judge said the non-compete 
covenant was “as a matter of law, void and unenforceable as an unjustified restraint of trade”.
The case was closely followed in legal and human resources circles as it centred on the enforceability and limits of 
non-compete covenants that companies use to ensure senior executives do not leave for rivals with confidential 
information that can be used to damage their business. 
The thrust of Mr Allen’s ruling was that the Ryanair covenant placed too broad a restriction on Mr Bellew when he 
decided to leave. Although Ryanair had a legitimate interest in exacting such a covenant from Mr Bellew, the judge 
said its interest did not extend beyond airlines in the low-cost or low-fare sector. 
“I find that the covenant in this case . . . would prevent the defendant [Mr Bellew] from taking up employment with 
any European airline, including the legacy carriers, and so goes beyond what [Ryanair] the plaintiff has shown to be 
justified,” the ruling said.
“The legitimate interest of the plaintiff in restraining the defendant from taking up alternative employment is limited 
to roles which would risk disclosure or use of its protectable information. I find that the restraint on employment in 
any capacity goes beyond that interest and has not been shown to be justifiable.” 
Mr Bellew had argued the non-compete agreement with Ryanair was null and void. He denied any breach of 
contract and pledged not to divulge confidential Ryanair information to any other company. 
The 2018 share options he received were priced at €14.40 but Ryanair shares fell below that level after a profit 
warning. New options for senior executives were approved this year at a lower price but Mr O’Leary decided that Mr 
Bellew would not receive them because he was not happy with his performance. Ryanair said the 2018 options and 
the non-compete clause linked to them remained valid but Mr Bellew disputed that. 
The judge said the 2018 options had not lapsed or been withdrawn, but they would lapse on December 31 because 
of Mr Bellew leaving Ryanair before March 31 2023, the date set out in his contract. 
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Persimmon’s bosses cashed in as fire safety went unchecked
Persimmon’s bosses cashed in as fire safety went unchecked
 
FT.com
December 17, 2019 Tuesday 8:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 820 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
What did Persimmon boss Jeff Fairburn do to earn £85m in two years? Critics suggested he did nothing more than 
become chief executive of the housebuilder just as a government subsidy scheme artificially inflated its share price 
— and his share-based bonuses. Customers claimed he skimped on quality and left fully paid-for homes unfinished 
just to keep margins high. But, now, an independent reviewer has found he also presided over a company that, 
despite making £1bn of annual profit did not properly check whether fire safety measures had been installed. 
Stephanie Barwise concluded that Persimmon under Mr Fairburn had become “more a . . . seller of houses rather 
than a housebuilder” where “a culture of non-observance” and “box-ticking” had been encouraged. And one 
“manifestation of poor culture” that she found was “incidence of missing or incorrectly installed cavity barriers” — 
needed to prevent fire spreading via the walls of timber-frame properties.
Persimmon, now under new CEO Dave Jenkinson and new chairman Roger Devlin, may deserve credit for opting 
to publish such damning findings, and reinspecting 16,000 homes. However, that is little over half the number the 
company needs to check — and only half the battle in achieving what it accepts is “required cultural change”.
Cultural failings, the review argues, stemmed from that focus on selling new properties, rather than necessarily 
building them well. Some supporters dispute this and note that Persimmon spent less on marketing than its peers. 
Still, Ms Barwise is adamant that the board must now “reconsider Persimmon’s purpose and ambition”.
Under the ambitious Mr Fairburn, regional managing directors’ purpose was to maximise profit — and earn their 
own promotions and bonuses — by doing things their own way. But that meant there were no group-wide building 
Persimmon’s bosses cashed in as fire safety went unchecked
policies or procedures. It also meant inspections were focused on fixing post-build snags, not getting build quality 
right first time. One industry figure likened Persimmon’s customer service to that of notoriously brusque airline 
Ryanair, quipping it was as though “they’d tell dissatisfied homebuyers that the DIY store was first on the right”.
So can the battle to change this culture — which Mr Devlin seems keen to fight— be won? In Mr Jenkinson — a 
Persimmon employee of 22 years, and one of those former regional managing directors — he does not have an 
obvious agent of change . . . although the internal candidate did come cheaper than those who sought £10m 
“golden hellos”. Nor does he yet have an exacting, expert board: Ms Barwise urges the appointment of a non-
executive with construction experience “to facilitate constructive challenge”. 
Ironically, then, his — and customers’ — best hope of change is Mr Fairburn’s £85m bonus scheme. It made 40 
other Persimmon managers so wealthy that they retired. Have the old culture and fire safety complacency gone 
too? 
Trainline’s parallel tracks 
Stock market newcomer Trainline, the booking app for rail users, steamed in to the station on Tuesday, puffing 
about a 26 per cent rise in revenues in nine months, writes Kate Burgess. Simultaneously, the International 
Accounting Standards Board whistled in, wheeshing about the widespread use of adjustments to polish up 
operating profit.
A month ago, Trainline peeped that it had doubled its adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation in the first half. What a really useful engine, whooped investors. Its shares are up 150p since floating at 
350p in June. But the company made a first-half pre-tax loss of £87.5m after close to £80m of finance costs. 
Trainline says exceptional expenses, such as the £21m associated with its stock market debut and share-based 
payments, are unrelated to underlying trading. Fair enough. Adjusted ebitda is the most “meaningful measure of 
operating performance and debt servicing ability”, it says. It is just another technology newbie applying exotic 
metrics. Remember office-rental business WeWork’s “community-adjusted” ebitda? For many finance directors, 
adjusted earnings is the only measure that counts, particularly if their incentives are pegged to it. But the IASB frets 
that multifarious use of “adjusted ebitda” confuses comparisons, and allows companies to flatter performance. 
Adjusted ebitda is frequently described as a measure of cash earnings yet, by excluding interest and tax, it says 
nothing about a group’s debt or ability to pay dividends.
The IASB wants to introduce a universal formula for operating profits which auditors would double-check. 
Exceptional profits or expenses should not recur annually. They must be demonstrably unusual, says the standard-
setter. And any deviation should be clearly explained why it is useful and how it is calculated. 
That, as Thomas the Tank Engine’s fat controller would say, makes for a really useful crew.
matthew.vincent@ft.com
Trainline/IASB: kate.burgess@ft.com
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Shipping group steams into list of top 10 EU polluters
Shipping group steams into list of top 10 EU polluters
 
FT.com
December 8, 2019 Sunday 9:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 507 words
Byline: Bethan Staton in London
Body
A ranking of the top 10 corporate polluters in Europe has included a shipping group for the first time, in a sign of 
how some emissions-heavy industries are escaping the environmental clampdown imposed on others.
Vessels operated by Mediterranean Shipping Company, the continent’s largest, emitted 11m tonnes of carbon 
dioxide last year on journeys to, from or within the EU, according to analysis of EU data by Transport & 
Environment, an NGO. 
That made Swiss-headquartered MSC Europe’s eighth-worst polluting company, breaking into a list that was until 
recently the exclusive preserve of coal-fired power stations. It is only the second company not in that sector to 
break into the top 10, following Irish airline Ryanair’s inclusion earlier this year.
Shipping is among the only industries not covered by the Paris Agreement on climate change, and although UN 
industry body the International Maritime Organisation has set the goal of halving its emissions by 2050, few 
immediate steps have been taken to reach the goal.
“Almost everything we touch has been on a ship,” said Faig Abbasov, shipping manager at Transport & 
Environment. “All those things have a huge environmental footprint — an invisible element in the supply chain that 
has a huge impact on the environment.”
MSC’s 362 Europe-operating ships are responsible for 25 per cent of the continent’s container ship carbon 
emissions, ahead of second-placed Maersk, which has 335 ships and a carbon output of 8.22m tonnes.
Shipping group steams into list of top 10 EU polluters
The broader European shipping industry, including passenger and bulk cargo vessels, produced 139m tonnes of 
C02 in 2018, and emissions in the sector are 19 per cent higher than in 1990, according to Transport & 
Environment.
Global trade growth has fuelled the expansion of container shipping, according to the International Transport Forum 
think-tank, which estimates the sector has tripled in size since 2000 and faces demand growth at the same rate in 
the next 30 years. 
While other modes of transport are subject to emissions regulations, shipping has so far escaped any serious limits. 
Mr Abbasov said the fact the sector’s operations were largely out of sight had protected it from public scrutiny and 
political action. 
MSC said it was investing in improvements to the sustainability of its fleet that had resulted in a 13 per cent 
reduction in C02 emissions per unit of transport work. 
While it emits more carbon in total than other shipping companies, it was among the most energy efficient, emitting 
19.92g of C02 for each tonne of cargo per nautical mile. The most efficient carrier, China’s Cosco, emitted 13.25g 
per tonne per nautical mile while the 10th least efficient produced 43.05g. 
“MSC operates a modern, green fleet and is investing heavily in low-carbon technologies and extensive new-build 
and retrofit programmes to boost performance and minimise our environmental impact,” the company said.
It also announced this weekend that it would start using a biofuels blend in vessels calling at Rotterdam, which it 
said would further reduce its emissions.
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Ryanair trims growth forecasts after Boeing 737 Max delays
Ryanair trims growth forecasts after Boeing 737 Max delays
 
FT.com
December 4, 2019 Wednesday 4:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 321 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
Ryanair has cut the number of passengers it expects to carry next year and said it would close two bases as a 
result of the grounding of Boeing’s 737 Max jets after two fatal crashes.
The low-cost airline on Wednesday said it had reduced its forecast for passenger traffic next year by 1m, to 156m, 
based on it receiving 10 Max aircraft for summer 2020 rather than the 20 it previously planned. 
This is the second time in five months that Ryanair has had to reduce its outlook. In July, the Irish airline cut its 
passenger growth forecast for the year to March 2021 from 7 per cent to 3 per cent but warned that it may have to 
cut it again.
Ryanair said the shortfall in Max aircraft would result in the closure of its hubs in Nuremberg, Germany and 
Stockholm Skavsta, Sweden in summer 2020. It expected to cut summer capacity at a number of other existing 
bases but said these would be “minor reductions”. 
The low-cost airline has been forced to rein in its growth plans following delays to the delivery of the Max aircraft 
and uncertainty over when and how many jets it would receive next year.
Boeing has said it could resume deliveries to airlines in December but this would be dependent on regulatory 
approval. However, there is growing speculation that this timetable could slip.
Ryanair trims growth forecasts after Boeing 737 Max delays
Ryanair was originally scheduled to take delivery of almost 60 planes by next summer but warned in July that it 
expected only 30. In November, it said it expected to receive 20 at best. The airline said in July that it would axe 
900 jobs after cutting flights as a result of the Max grounding. 
“We regret these two further base closures and minor capacity cuts at other bases which are solely due to further 
delivery delays to our Boeing Max aircraft. We are continuing to work with Boeing, our people, our unions and our 
affected airports to minimise these capacity cuts and job losses,” said Eddie Wilson, chief executive officer at 
Ryanair. 
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Best books of 2019: Travel
Best books of 2019: Travel
 
FT.com
November 22, 2019 Friday 11:33 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 533 words
Byline: Tom Robbins
Body
 My Midsummer Morning: Rediscovering a Life of Adventure, by Alastair Humphreys, William Collins, 
RRP£14.99/$26.99
Proof that adventure isn’t something restricted to lavishly funded world-first expeditions. Feeling trapped in London, 
with a young family and accountant partner (“ambition glowered at the pram in the hall”), Humphreys jumps on a 
Ryanair flight to Spain. There he sets out in the footsteps of Laurie Lee, hoping to support himself for a month solely 
by busking with a violin he can barely play. 
 Autumn Light: Season of Fire and Farewells, by Pico Iyer, Bloomsbury Circus, RRP£20/Knopf, RRP$25.95
In 1987 Iyer gave up his busy life in Manhattan, where he worked for Time, and moved to Japan, falling in love and 
setting up home in a small flat in Nara, a minor city near Osaka. Three decades on, the death of his father-in-law 
prompts this memoir about transience, decline and his simple life among the ping-pong playing pensioners in Nara. 
Autumn, he writes, “poses the question we all have to live with: how to hold on to the things we love even though 
we know that we and they are dying”.
 Pravda Ha Ha: True Travels to the Ends of Europe, by Rory Maclean, Bloomsbury, RRP£20
Amid the joy and optimism of 1989, Maclean travelled from Berlin to Moscow in a Trabant, writing the surreal, comic 
travelogue Stalin’s Nose on his return. Now he retraces his steps, in reverse, in what is a timely but far bleaker 
book, highlighting the rise of fake news and xenophobia, and the “collapse of the European dream”.
Best books of 2019: Travel
 On the Plain of Snakes: A Mexican Road Trip, by Paul Theroux, Hamish Hamilton, RRP£20/Houghton Mifflin 
Harcourt, RRP$30
Now 78, the great traveller might be forgiven for choosing a relaxing cruise or a nice spin through Tuscany. Instead, 
his latest work sees him driving a second-hand Buick for thousands of miles along the US-Mexican border and 
down to the southern state of Chiapas on a mission to better understand the migrant crisis. En route he is extorted 
by a corrupt policeman and finds himself addressing a meeting of far-left militants, the journey adding up to “one of 
the greatest adventures of my travelling life”.
 Alpenglow: The Finest Climbs on the 4000m Peaks of the Alps, by Ben Tibbetts, Ben Tibbetts, RRP£65
If, rather than a tweedy plodder, Alfred Wainwright had been a cutting-edge alpinist, his books might look something 
like this. Alpenglow — a large-format guidebook to all 82 Alpine peaks above 4,000m — has been a decade-long 
labour of love for Tibbetts. As well as making all the climbs described, he illustrates the self-published book with his 
own photography and drawings. 
Tom Robbins is the FT’s travel editor
Books of the Year 2019
FT commentators, critics and guests select the titles of the year that you need to read. Explore the series  here.
What are your favourites from this list — and what books have we missed? Tell us in the comments below.
Join our online book group on Facebook at  FTBooksCafe. You can listen to acclaimed novelist Ben Lerner discuss 
his newest book, The Topeka School, on the FT’s culture podcast Culture Call. Find it on             the FT,             
Apple Podcasts,             Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts.
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
EasyJet /CO2:  that sinking feeling
EasyJet/CO2:  that sinking feeling
 
FT.com
November 19, 2019 Tuesday
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 431 words
Body
Staying in the black. That is usually a good thing for a company. Not these days. Gotta think about that carbon 
footprint. Airlines are heavy emitters. Johan Lundgren, easyJet’s chief pilot, has announced all flights from now on 
will be carbon neutral. At £25m a year, the projected  cost of the offset scheme is surprisingly low. Shares rose 
because Tuesday’s  annual results were decent, not because the planet has been saved.
Climate change does not currently overhang airlines as threateningly as oil companies. The question for investors is 
whether that will change. Aviation is a top 10 producer of carbon, according to the Environmental Defense Fund. 
That will go up as people fly more.
Stripped of technical guff, offset schemes work like this. You give some money to an environmental charity. You 
then feel less guilty about flying. The amount of carbon dioxide offset by the scheme will be debatable.
The cheaper the scheme, the greater the doubt. For example, easyJet says it paying enough, worth about 5 per 
cent of PBT annually, to offset its carbon for three years. But that would work out at just 26 euro cents per 
passenger last year.
This voluntary offset is worth £2.87 per tonne of carbon dioxide. The EU’s Emission Trading System prices CO2 at 
about €24 (£21) per tonne for 2020. EasyJet paid £80m last year under the ETS. That covered less than half its 
emissions. Full coverage would have cost £180m, according to Bernstein.
The airline promises its projects will be fully vetted to ensure a complete emissions offset. Good idea. Ryanair has 
been criticised for an offset scheme whose beneficiaries quaintly included a cetacean charity.
EasyJet /CO2:  that sinking feeling
There is less ambiguity about easyJet’s earnings. They have fallen. Statutory profits before tax dropped 3.7 per 
cent to £430m. EasyJet is in the midst of investment splurge which does not peak until after 2020. That puts 
pressure on its finances — net cash has reversed into net debt — just when the added liabilities from the IFRS 16 
change weigh on the balance sheet.
Mr Lundgren thinks revenue per available seat will rise perhaps by mid-single digits next year. His sales predictions 
are more convincing than his offsetting scheme. The supply of genuine carbon sink projects is limited.  Their price 
would rise, as would fares, if airlines were serious about climate change. It is a conundrum you cannot offset.
Our popular newsletter for premium subscribers Best of Lex is published twice weekly. Please sign up  here.
Letter in response to this article:
 Offsetting does nothing to reduce carbon / From Matt Andersson, Chicago, IL, US
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Offsetting Flugscham. EasyJet edition
Offsetting Flugscham. EasyJet edition
 
FT.com
November 19, 2019 Tuesday
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 552 words
Byline: Claire Jones
Body
We are, it is fair to say,  cynical about airlines’ attempts to offset their environmental footprints by funding projects 
that reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
But we like elements of  today’s claim from easyJet that it will become the first airline to wholly offset its carbon 
footprint. Specifically, the part where the airline admits the whole schtick won’t save the planet. 
The launch of the strategy neatly coincides with a sharp fall in profits. The airline is also scant on detail, saying only 
that they will fund “schemes accredited by two of the highest verification standards, Gold Standard and VCS”,  to 
“include forestry, renewable and community based projects”. There is also little information on how the airline plans 
to fund the scheme or how it calculated the cost, which the FT’s Philip Georgiadis  reports is around £25m in the 
next financial year. 
What we find heartening, though, is this statement from CEO Johan Lundgren (emphasis Alphaville’s):
We acknowledge that offsetting is only an interim measure until other technologies become available to 
radically reduce the carbon emissions of flying, but we want to take action on carbon now...  ...our priority is to 
continue to work on reducing our carbon footprint in the short term, coupled with long-term work to support the 
development of new technology, including electric planes which aspire to radically reduce the carbon footprint 
of aviation. 
Offsetting Flugscham. EasyJet edition
So unlike  energy firm Eni, rival airline Ryanair, or Coldplay frontman Chris Martin, easyJet are not engaging in all-
out greenwashing by claiming planting a bunch of trees will save the planet. As the Daily Mail             explains here, 
this tends not to work: 
While touring the world to promote Coldplay's second album A Rush Of Blood To The Head, frontman Chris 
Martin found himself feeling guilty about the environmental cost of his private jet habit.So the macrobiotic pop 
star announced that he'd be paying for 10,000 mango trees to be planted in southern India, thereby (allegedly) 
rendering the entire production of his hit record 'carbon neutral'.Fans could chip in if they wanted, via his 
website, paying £17.50 to receive a certificate (printed on recycled paper) saying that they, too, had paid for a 
mango tree......It emerged that, in the four years since the so-called Coldplay Forest had been planted, at least 
40 per cent of its mango trees had already died.Impoverished farmers in the dusty countryside of Karnataka 
State, where the saplings were planted, began complaining that they'd not been paid for labour, insecticide, or 
spraying equipment necessary to actually nurture them.
Hmm. 
Finding an alternative energy source for international commercial flights is nowhere near as far advanced as it is for 
other forms of transport. Trying to combine defying gravity with a massive battery that will power you for thousands 
of miles is clearly a challenge. It will not happen overnight. 
But at least easyJet recognises the solution must lie here (or in a radical change in our behaviour) and not in 
offsetting schemes that are fast becoming a modern-day equivalent of Papal Indulgences. 
Related links: 
 Offsetting Flugscham - FT Alphaville
            Offsetting Flugscham. Private jets edition - FT Alphaville 
            Ride-sharing apps can’t save the planet - FT Alphaville
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
Opening Quote: EasyJet ’s bargain £25m plan to go carbon-neutral
Opening Quote: EasyJet’s bargain £25m plan to go carbon-neutral
 
FT.com
November 19, 2019 Tuesday 9:03 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1086 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley
Body
FT subscribers can  click here to receive Opening quote by email.
The cost of being carbon-neutral is cheap. Airline easyJet has announced on Tuesday that it will make all flights 
“net zero carbon” from now on by offsetting the carbon emissions from the fuel used on its flights. That might seem 
like a bold move in an industry that has few technological solutions to its emissions problem. But the cost will be a 
piddly £25m for the next ten-and-a-half months, compared to revenues in the year to September of £6.4bn. 
Even as consumers become more carbon-conscious, easyJet does not seem to be suffering. The 8 per cent year-
on-year increase in its revenues was driven by rising numbers of passengers and even greater capacity growth. 
Pre-tax profits fell, down 26 per cent to £430m, but that was at the top end of the company’s guidance. The decline 
was caused by general macroeconomic malaise — weakness in consumer confidence hit fares, though the effect 
was muted by strikes at Ryanair and British Airways, which aided easyJet. 
EasyJet says carbon offsetting is an “interim measure” and it will “continue the push to reinvent aviation for the 
long-term”, with sustainable fuel and electric flying. The airline’s other big plan for the future feels more down-to-
earth. It is getting into the package holiday business, with the pre-Christmas launch of easyJet holidays. That 
business is expected to at least break even within this financial year. Onwards and upwards. 
Briefly 
Opening Quote: EasyJet ’s bargain £25m plan to go carbon-neutral
Advent’s takeover of Cobham has moved one step closer to completion. The UK government has said it is minded 
to accept undertakings from the US private equity group rather than refer the deal for a detailed investigation by the 
competition watchdog, following a review commissioned by business secretary Andrea Leadsom (pictured above). 
The undertakings would see Advent commit to strengthen Cobham’s security arrangements protecting sensitive 
government information, comply with nationality requirements for the company’s board, and give the Ministry of 
Defence advance notice of plans to sell Cobham, or parts of it. There is a further consultation until December 17 — 
by which point we could, of course, have a new government in place. 
A long-awaited report into the IT debacle at TSB is out on Tuesday. It will conclude the bank’s board of directors 
failed to show “common sense” as TSB tried to implement a system upgrade, according to people briefed on the 
report. The fiasco, which left millions of customers unable to access their accounts, frayed relations between the 
mainly British board and its Spanish parent, Sabadell. It was Sabadell’s in-house IT provider, Sabis, that built 
TSB’s new banking platform. Still, at least someone benefits from the whole thing: Slaughter and May, the law firm 
behind the post-mortem, stands to earn a tidy sum.
Corporate supporters are deserting Prince Andrew, despite the Duke of York’s efforts to put to bed questions over 
his friendship with the late financier and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. KPMG decided not to renew its sponsorship 
of the Duke’s Pitch@Palace network for entrepreneurs at the end of October, while Aon, the insurance broker, 
asked for its logo to be removed from the initiative’s site in the wake of the Duke’s weekend interview. A person 
familiar with the company’s thinking said Aon had never had any involvement with Pitch@Palace and should not 
have been listed as one of its partners at all. Other groups listed as supporters include Barclays, whose chief 
executive Jes Staley has separately  come under fire for his own historic business ties to Mr Epstein.
Sticking with KPMG, the audit firm’s contentious Mayfair private club could soon be taken over by SoftBank’s 
Vision Fund. The Japanese tech group is in advanced talks to take over the lease at the 43,000 square foot 
property early next year. KPMG is giving up the property after regulators raised concerns the accounting firm was 
handing out memberships as perks to audit clients. The Big Four firm already planned to write to members telling 
them their memberships would stop from March 1, with audit clients banned from January 1. Good to see SoftBank 
still has cash to splash in the wake of the WeWork debacle. 
Other companies reporting on Tuesday include the pub chain Ei Group, which is in the process of being taken over 
by the owner of Slug and Lettuce, and AO World, the online appliance retailer.
Job moves 
Saga has announced two new appointments in its senior management team. Cheryl Agius joins the board as head 
of its insurance business on January 1, while Gilles Normand will start as chief operating officer on November 25. 
Agius joins from Legal & General where she was chief executive of its general insurance business, while Normand 
was most recently group chief executive at Swinton, the UK retail branch of French insurer Covéa.
Beyond the Square Mile 
Coty, the US-listed group owned by investment company JAB Holdings, is buying a controlling stake in Kylie 
Jenner’s cosmetics company for $600m. The sale values Kylie Cosmetics at $1.2bn and cements the reputation of 
Ms Jenner (pictured above) as a mogul at the age of just 22. Earlier this year, Forbes magazine crowned her “the 
youngest self-made billionaire ever” as her eponymous company grew in notoriety and revenue.
Private equity group TA Associates has hired Goldman Sachs to explore a sale of Russell Investments, putting the 
$293bn asset manager on the block as part of a wave of consolidation in the fund management industry, according 
to people briefed on the matter.
Airbnb has joined an elite corporate list and signed a $500m deal to sponsor the Olympic Games until 2028. The 
deal covers the next five Olympics starting with next year’s in Tokyo, and including the subsequent winter and 
summer games in Beijing, Paris, Milan and Los Angeles. The five cities are among Airbnb’s biggest markets for 
private accommodation rentals worldwide. 
Opening Quote: EasyJet ’s bargain £25m plan to go carbon-neutral
Closing quote — essential comment before you go
Michael Skapinker 
There are three lessons from the downfall of Carlos Ghosn (pictured above) for companies on when to call time on 
imperial chief executives.
Lex 
For companies under siege over corporate governance, the first line of defence is to call on the non-executive 
directors. So it is with Deloitte. Facing calls for a break up, the second-biggest UK accountancy firm says partner 
remuneration will need to be cleared by its NEDs.
Thanks for reading. Feel free to forward this email to friends and colleagues, who can  sign-up here. 
Load-Date: November 19, 2019
End of Document
Investors Chronicle: Lok’n Store, Castleton Technology, Ryanair
Investors Chronicle: Lok’n Store, Castleton Technology, Ryanair
 
FT.com
November 8, 2019 Friday 5:39 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 1293 words
Byline: Investors Chronicle reporters
Body
Buy: Lok’n Store (LOK)
The shares now trade at a one per cent premium to their year-end forecast net asset value (NAV), writes Emma 
Powell.
Given that Lok’n Store is trying to expand its store portfolio, there is a clear logic to the self-storage group’s efforts 
to keep “the balance sheet in trim”, in the words of chief executive Andrew Jacobs. 
Recycling proceeds from the sale of a document storage business, together with the “sale and manage back” of the 
Crayford store, meant the group was able to cut net debt by almost a tenth in the 12 months to July. During this 
time, five new stores were opened or bought, while three further sites were acquired.
Plans to accelerate the store development pipeline are backed by a portfolio with a conservative loan-to-value ratio, 
which declined from 19 to 16.1 per cent in the period. At the same time, bank facilities have increased to £75m, and 
could be extended to £100m.
Revenue was boosted by a marginal uplift in pricing, and a 6 per cent rise in unit occupancy. By the year-end, 18 of 
Lok’n Store’s 34 stores could count an occupancy rate of at least 70 per cent, while household customers — which 
tend to generate storage for shorter periods than business clients — now account for two-thirds of group revenues.
House broker finnCap forecasts an adjusted NAV of 559p at the July 2020 year-end, rising to 599p a year later.
Investors Chronicle: Lok’n Store, Castleton Technology, Ryanair
Mr Jacobs added: “Lok’nStore Group has had an excellent year successfully implementing our strategic objectives. 
We have created a strong platform for an exciting period of growth for Lok’nStore with revenue, profits and asset 
values all moving strongly ahead.” 
Hold: Castleton Technology (CTP)
Management is pinning its hopes on the benefits of restructuring coming through and growth in cloud services 
offsetting the decline in hardware, writes Nilushi Karunaratne.
Following an October profit warning that wiped out more than two-fifths of Castleton Technology’s market value, 
there were few surprises in the social housing software specialist’s half-year results. Organic revenue declined by 
13 per cent amid lower hardware sales and fees from professional services.
As customers transition to cloud services, the need to update their physical technology infrastructure has declined. 
Hardware and one-off revenue dropped by more than half to £1.4m, exacerbated by one customer halting their 
hardware capital expenditure while it reviewed cloud alternatives. A more modest increase in recurring revenue was 
unable to make up the shortfall, but the shift in the mix means higher-margin category of services now comprise 
two-thirds of total sales, up from 55 per cent at the same point last year.
The protracted merger of managed services and software solutions was completed in September and management 
believes the simplified structure will drive further cross-selling opportunities. With almost three-quarters of new 
sales were made to existing customers, more than half the group’s 595 housing association customers took more 
than one product or service.
House broker FinnCap forecasts adjusted pre-tax profit of £5m and earnings per share of 5.7p for the full year, 
rising to £5.6m and 6p in 2021.
Three new cloud contract wins and more tenders in the pipeline show promise, but we would like to see more 
robust growth in recurring revenue before buying back in.
Sell: Ryanair (RYA)
Ryanair struck a cautious tone in its half-year report, decrying the “unreliable optimism of some competitors”, writes 
Alex Janiaud.
Ryanair has cut the target range for its full-year post-tax profits, with Boeing 737 Max disruption, rising fuel costs 
and spiralling losses in the airline’s Lauda outfit expected to weigh on earnings.
In July, Ryanair cut the number of 737 Max-200 jets it expected to receive for the summer of 2020 from 58 to 30. 
The planes remain grounded after two software-related crashes, and Ryanair has now cut this further to 20 aircraft. 
Subject to regulatory approval, the airline expects to receive the planes in March or April, although it added a 
caveat that “the risk of further delay is rising”. The planes, which are more fuel-efficient, were expected to help 
Ryanair achieve cost savings — these will not now be achieved until 2021.
Full-year losses for Ryanair’s Lauda brand will exceed expectations, which Ryanair attributed to overcapacity in 
Austria and Germany. Ryanair also envisages a €450m (£389m) rise in its fuel bill. The airline has narrowed its full-
year guidance for post-tax profits accordingly to a new range of €800m-€900m, from a previous range of €750m to 
€950m.
The airline continues to be hamstrung by its Boeing order, and admits that growth in passenger traffic is vulnerable 
to market uncertainty, including a no-deal Brexit scenario. We see no significant catalysts for share price growth 
that would tempt us to upgrade our rating. 
Mark Robinson: Shell’s shot across the bows on buybacks
Investors Chronicle: Lok’n Store, Castleton Technology, Ryanair
You’re not always rewarded for exhibiting candour in equity markets. This point wouldn’t have been lost on 
management at Royal Dutch Shell, which saw the market value of the energy giant pull back sharply after it warned 
of possible delays in the fulfilment of its $25bn (£19bn) share buyback programme.
The warning came as the group posted a 15 per cent dip in current costs of supply earnings to $4.8bn. 
Some analysts expressed surprise that Ben van Beurden, Shell’s chief executive, felt the need to warn that the 
timeframe for completion of the share buyback programme could slip beyond 2020. But management has 
committed to enhanced corporate disclosure, hence the greater quarterly detail afforded investors. It deserves 
credit on this basis, though no good deed ever goes unpunished.
The group’s share price generally trades in a relatively narrow band — and there’s a reason for this. You would 
imagine that global energy markets would have to be in the doldrums for an unprecedented length of time before 
Shell lets its shareholders down. The group has explicitly prioritised the maintenance of shareholder returns down 
through the decades, even if that has meant expanding borrowings or hiving off productive assets. Even when 
Brent crude slumped to $27.67 a barrel at the time of the oil price collapse of 2014-15, management held its nerve 
and shareholders reaped the benefits.
So why are income seekers apparently so apprehensive? Although free cash flow was up on a relative quarterly 
basis, it’s down by 7.6 per cent through to the end of the third quarter. 
But it’s not as though the group will inadvertently diminish in scale through its determination to underpin 
distributions. Shell allocated $20bn in capex last year, while another $20.2bn was given over to distributions and 
buybacks, but this was achieved when energy prices were more favourable. You’re left wondering how the group 
will be able to make good on its commitments without expanding the balance sheet.
Shell’s increased caution in this area can be seen in a wider context. You could make the case that a key driver of 
the unprecedented bull run has been the proliferation of share buybacks. This practice can serve to mask 
underlying earnings by reducing the total shares outstanding. 
The signs are that market support from this avenue is dwindling. Goldman Sachs recently noted that S&P 500 
share buybacks fell by close to a fifth (in aggregate terms) from the first through to the second quarters of 2019. 
The analysis squares with Mr van Beurden’s comments, but index values will come under pressure if it accurately 
describes a developing trend.
Mark Robinson is Investors Chronicle’s companies editor
The Financial Times and its journalism, including Investors Chronicle content, are subject to a self-regulation 
regime under the FT Editorial Code of Practice:  FT.com/editorialcode
Load-Date: November 8, 2019
End of Document
Five destinations to watch — from the Faroe Islands to Pakistan
Five destinations to watch — from the Faroe Islands to Pakistan
 
FT.com
November 8, 2019 Friday 1:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 540 words
Byline: Katie Gatens
Body
Albania
While Dubrovnik has become so overrun that it has unveiled plans to tax cruise ships, the beaches of Albania — 
less than a five-hour drive away — remain blissfully quiet. But perhaps not for long. The stigma around what was 
once the Balkans’ most dangerous country is lifting and tourist numbers were up 20 per cent this year. Newcomer 
music festival Kala in the coastal town of Dhërmi is what Croatia felt like before the coast got choked with beach 
clubs. Festival goers should soon find it easier to get there, thanks to a new airport planned for nearby Vlorë. 
Georgia
The underground electronic music scene in Tbilisi has already led to some dubbing it “the new Berlin”. Its graffiti-
daubed warehouses converted into hipster hostels, visa-free travel for EU nationals since 2017 and last year’s 
legalisation of marijuana have all helped Georgia hit record visitor numbers (8.7m last year). Access is getting 
easier too: Ryanair is launching three new routes to the country this month and a fourth next summer; Wizz Air is 
adding around 60,000 seats on routes to Kutaisi next year.
Faroe Islands
No other destination has leveraged the viral power of social media as much as the tiny Faroes. A reorganisation 
and funding boost for the tourist board in 2012 was followed by a string of online campaigns including “sheep view”, 
a cutesy alternative to Google Street View with cameras strapped to the back of sheep, and “Faroe Islands 
Five destinations to watch — from the Faroe Islands to Pakistan
translate” in which islanders translate phrases via video message. The latest stunt, in April, saw the islands “closed 
for maintenance” for a weekend, with volunteers invited to come to help with conservation projects. The result has 
been an increase in visitors (with tourist nights up 31 per cent between 2014 and 2018) — and a change in 
demographics. “Our visitors’ age group has certainly fallen,” says Súsanna Sørensen of Visit Faroe Islands.
Uzbekistan
Offering the chance to rave on the dried-up Aral Sea in a graveyard of rusty ships, Sithia festival, which launched 
last year, is the Burning Man of Central Asia. It has helped attract a very different type of visitor — as has the 
relaxation of visa rules and improved infrastructure that makes independent travel much easier. Skyscanner report 
a 97 per cent increase in searches this year compared with last; Intrepid Travel, which claims to be the world’s 
largest small group adventure company, says Uzbekistan sales have risen 257 per cent year on year. “It’s the 
fastest-growing destination of 2019,” says Aaron Hocking, Intrepid’s commercial director.
Pakistan
Could 2020 be Pakistan’s year? A new e-visa scheme was launched in March and British Airways resumed flights 
to Islamabad in June. Meanwhile visits to the country’s cultural sites rose more than threefold between 2014 and 
2018. STA travel, the world’s largest travel company for students and young people, reported a 91 per cent 
increase in travellers this year compared with last, and adventure tour operator Wild Frontiers has recorded 40 per 
cent more bookings.
Follow  @FTLifeArts on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first. Listen and subscribe to Culture Call, a 
transatlantic conversation from the FT, at             ft.com/culture-call or on             Apple Podcasts
Load-Date: November 18, 2019
End of Document
IAG cuts capacity growth targets as chief outlines plans to retire
IAG cuts capacity growth targets as chief outlines plans to retire
 
FT.com
November 8, 2019 Friday 9:10 AM GMT
Copyright 2019 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Length: 445 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
British Airways’ owner International Airlines Group will almost halve its planned expansion over the next three 
years, hitting the group’s earnings just as chief executive Willie Walsh prepares to step down. 
Mr Walsh, who has been at the helm of IAG since 2011, said on Friday he planned to retire within the next two 
years. 
“I still love what I do but my intention is to be retired within the next two years . . . I am going to keep my promise 
and retire before I’m 60,” he told analysts at IAG’s capital markets day in London. 
Mr Walsh turns 60 on October 25 2021. He added that the board has been working on succession planning. 
Airline groups across the world have scaled back expansion plans for next year in an attempt to protect ticket prices 
falling further on the back of weaker demand.
IAG, which also owns Iberia, Aer Lingus and Vueling, said it now expected available seat kilometres — the industry 
measure of passenger capacity — to grow 3.4 per cent a year between 2020 and 2022, down from a previous 
forecast of 6 per cent growth a year for the 2019 to 2023 period. 
The cut in capacity led to IAG also lowering its forecast for growth in earnings per share to 10 per cent a year, 
compared with a previous estimate of 12 per cent a year.
IAG cuts capacity growth targets as chief outlines plans to retire
“There are no two ways about it, demand has softened,” said Steve Gunning, chief financial officer at IAG. “This 
time around as we’ve been doing the business plan, it’s been very much with a different context that says we need 
to be more cautious, see how to adapt the business in these softer environments.”
Other airlines have also signalled plans to trim capacity. In October, easyJet said it expected capacity growth in 
2020 to be at lower end of its historic range, which is likely to see growth of about 3 per cent. This week Ryanair 
said it may have to cut its passenger growth expectations again for next year amid delays to the delivery of Boeing 
737 Max jets. 
Last week,  IAG reported a fall in profits on the back of the first pilots’ strike in BA’s history. In the three months to 
the end of September, the airline group posted a 7 per cent fall in operating profit to €1.43bn after industrial action 
last month spiralled into one of the most serious disputes BA has faced.
However, as part of its strategy update to investors, IAG made no changes to the group’s return on invested capital 
target of 15 per cent or its operating profit margin of 12 to 15 per cent. 
Mr Walsh said the group remained in a good position to take advantage of any opportunities in the market, 
reiterating that he believed more airlines would collapse amid the difficult conditions. 
Shares fell just over 1 per cent in early trading.
Load-Date: February 24, 2020
End of Document
