Ryanair to challenge French labour ruling at European Court of Human Rights
Ryanair to challenge French labour ruling at European Court of Human 
Rights
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
October 10, 2007 Wednesday 11:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 203 words
Body
Low-fares airline Ryanair Holdings PLC has challenged a recent ruling by the French supreme court which sought 
to deny Ryanair's Marseille-based employees the right to rely on Irish labour law in their relationship with the Irish 
carrier.
Ryanair said the Decree (No 1425) forces its pilots and cabin crew operating international routes to and from 
France to be subject to French labour law, irrespective of the fact that they are working on Irish-registered aircraft 
and contracts.
The French supreme court earlier advised the French government on the legality of the Decree and rejected 
Ryanair's request to refer this matter to the European Court of Justice, ruling that the Decree was lawful. Ryanair 
said this denied it the right to fair trial and made it necessary for the airline to seek justice in the European Court of 
Human Rights.
'This was clearly in breach of French, European and international laws. Ryanair is committed to defending the rights 
of its employees, including the right of its employees operating on Irish territory to rely on Irish labour law, and has 
therefore challenged the legality of the Decree,' Jim Callaghan, Ryanair's head of regulatory affairs and company 
secretary said in a statement.
Load-Date: October 10, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair suing France in Euro Court of Human Rights, hopes to avoid French labor laws
Ryanair suing France in Euro Court of Human Rights, hopes to avoid French 
labor laws
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 10, 2007 Wednesday 3:33 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 317 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC said Wednesday it will sue France in the European Court of Human Rights in hopes of 
preventing its French-based staff from being subject to French labor laws and social security taxes.
The action follows a July verdict by the Council of State, France's highest administrative court, against Dublin-
based Ryanair and British budget carrier easyJet PLC.
The Paris court ordered both airlines to comply with a November 2006 government decree requiring them to 
observe French labor laws for their employees based in France. The court also refused to refer their complaints to 
the European Court of Justice.
While easyJet accepted that ruling, Ryanair said Wednesday it would mount a fresh legal challenge at the 
European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France.
Ryanair's head of regulatory affairs, Jim O'Callaghan, accused the Council of State of a conflict of interest, saying it 
had offered legal expertise to the earlier French government decree.
"This bizarre confusion of consultative and judicial functions within the French supreme court ... denied Ryanair the 
right to fair trial and made it necessary for us to seek justice in the European Court of Human Rights," O'Callaghan 
said.
"Ryanair is confident that the European Court of Human Rights will correct the obvious injustice caused by the 
French judicial system and allow Ryanair's employees working on Irish aircraft and on Irish contracts to continue to 
enjoy Ryanair's industry-leading pay and employment conditions under Irish law," he said.
Ryanair, which previously has accused France of seeking to protect Air France from foreign no-frills competition, 
does not recognize labor unions a policy that is an anathema to union-friendly France.
Ryanair suing France in Euro Court of Human Rights, hopes to avoid French labor laws
Ryanair operates at 20 French airports. Its complaint chiefly involves staff based at its hub in Marseilles, southern 
France, which was opened in 2006 with two Ryanair aircraft.
Load-Date: October 11, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus threatens to suspend pilots if they don't accept new Belfast base
Aer Lingus threatens to suspend pilots if they don't accept new Belfast base
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 10, 2007 Wednesday 4:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 556 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Aer Lingus Group PLC warned its pilots Wednesday that they will be suspended without pay unless they promise, 
in writing, to support the Irish airline's plans to open a Northern Ireland hub.
The surprise ultimatum raises the risk of disruptions at the airline, which is battling budget carrier Ryanair for 
supremacy in Ireland's skies.
The Impact union said it was advising members not to submit to the Monday deadline. Spokesman Niall Shanahan 
called the threat of mass suspensions "an act of madness."
But analysts said the previously state-owned airline, which has spent years seeking to boost efficiency and profits, 
appears to have reached the breaking point with union leaders, who have spent the past year opposing a cost-
saving plan.
The latest dispute concerns Aer Lingus' plan to open a new hub Dec. 10 at Belfast International Airport in the British 
territory of Northern Ireland.
Union leaders want staff there to have the same union-negotiated working hours and benefits as in the Republic of 
Ireland and for existing staff to receive first consideration for the posts. Aer Lingus insists it has the right to hire new 
staff under more flexible British terms of employment, and says pilots must help select and train new Northern 
Ireland-based pilots.
Pilots initially threatened to strike in response to the Belfast plan but backed off in August, after Aer Lingus had 
already been forced to cancel some flights and charter emergency aircraft from its rival Ryanair.
Aer Lingus began this week to suspend its approximately 30 elite pilots with instructors' qualifications, who are 
refusing to help interview and train Northern Ireland-based pilots.
Wednesday's letter from Chief Executive Dermot Mannion raised the stakes further, because it demanded a written 
promise of cooperation from all 450 of the airline's pilots.
Aer Lingus threatens to suspend pilots if they don't accept new Belfast base
"It is important that you understand that if you fail to confirm your willingness to unreservedly engage in your full 
range of duties ... you will be suspended from the payroll from 3 a.m. on Tuesday, 16th October 2007," Mannion 
wrote.
The threat comes on top of Aer Lingus' decision last week to withhold planned 7.5 percent pay raises across its 
3,600-member work force unless union chiefs accept a company-wide savings plan that requires changes in 
overtime, staff ranks, pension rights and other benefits. Union leaders insist they must keep negotiating details of 
the October 2006 proposals, which are designed to save Aer Lingus more than €20 million (US$28 million) 
annually.
Ryanair which has become the biggest Aer Lingus shareholder in hopes of eventually taking over its rival does not 
recognize unions. The European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, in June rejected Ryanair's 
takeover terms as likely to create a monopoly.
In a related development, Aer Lingus announced Wednesday it will file a lawsuit against Ryanair within the next few 
weeks in the European Court of First Instance in hopes of forcing its rival to sell part or all of its 29.4 percent 
shareholding.
The European Commission says it cannot order Ryanair to dump its holding without a court order.
The Irish government privatized the profitable airline in September 2006 but retained a 25 percent stake. That stake 
and support from Aer Lingus employee-controlled trusts allowed it to defeat Ryanair's takeover attempt.
Load-Date: October 11, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus threatens to suspend all pilots if they don't accept new Belfast base
Aer Lingus threatens to suspend all pilots if they don't accept new Belfast 
base
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 10, 2007 Wednesday 1:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 598 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Aer Lingus Group PLC warned its pilots Wednesday that they must sign a document accepting the Irish airline's 
plans to open a new Northern Ireland hub or they will be suspended without pay.
The surprise ultimatum from Aer Lingus chiefs raises the risk of disrupted services at the airline, which is battling 
budget carrier Ryanair for supremacy in Ireland's skies.
But analysts said Aer Lingus, which has spent years seeking to boost efficiency and profit at the previously state-
owned airline, appears to have reached the breaking point with labor unions active in Aer Lingus' work force.
The latest dispute concerns Aer Lingus' plans to open a new hub Dec. 10 at Belfast International Airport in the 
neighboring British territory of Northern Ireland.
Union leaders want staff there to receive the same union-negotiated working hours and benefits as in the Republic 
of Ireland and for existing staff to receive first consideration for the Belfast posts. But Aer Lingus insists it has the 
right to hire new staff under more flexible British terms of employment, and says pilots must help select and train 
new Northern Ireland-based pilots.
Pilots initially threatened to strike in response to the Belfast plan but backed off in August, after Aer Lingus had 
already been forced to cancel some flights and charter emergency aircraft from its rival Ryanair.
Aer Lingus this week has already begun to suspend its approximately 30 elite pilots who hold instructors' 
qualifications, and who have refused to take part in interviewing and training Northern Ireland-based pilots.
Wednesday's letter from Aer Lingus Chief Executive Dermot Mannion raised the stakes further, because it 
demanded a written promise of cooperation from all 450 of the airline's pilots.
Mannion wrote that it was "crucial that this base is set up with the unreserved cooperation of all Aer Lingus pilots."
Aer Lingus threatens to suspend all pilots if they don't accept new Belfast base
"It is important that you understand that if you fail to confirm your willingness to unreservedly engage in your full 
range of duties ... you will be suspended from the payroll from 3 a.m. on Tuesday, 16th October 2007," Mannion 
wrote.
Aer Lingus has already confronted wider union forces by announcing last week it will withhold a previously 
promised 7.5 percent pay raise unless workers accept the company's latest cost-cutting plan. Union leaders insist 
that they must keep negotiating the terms of the plan, which was unveiled in October 2006 and is designed to save 
Aer Lingus more than €20 million (US$28 million) annually.
Ryanair which over the past year has become the biggest Aer Lingus shareholder in hopes of eventually taking over 
its rival does not recognize unions. The European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, in June 
rejected Ryanair's takeover terms as likely to create an Irish air monopoly.
In a related development, Aer Lingus announced Wednesday that it will file a lawsuit against Ryanair within the next 
few weeks in the European Court of First Instance in hopes of forcing its rival to sell part or all of its 29.4 percent 
shareholding.
Aer Lingus said it was taking this action because it has received confirmation from Philip Lowe, the EU's director-
general for competition, that the European Commission cannot order Ryanair to dump its Aer Lingus holding 
without a court order.
Aer Lingus Chairman John Sharman said the only reason Ryanair kept building up its holding in Aer Lingus was "to 
obtain control over its main Irish competitor. As the takeover has been barred, it follows that Ryanair's shareholding, 
built up for the purpose of mounting a takeover, should also be barred."
Load-Date: October 11, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus to take legal action to force Ryanair to sell stake
Aer Lingus to take legal action to force Ryanair to sell stake
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
October 10, 2007 Wednesday 12:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 270 words
Body
Irish airline Aer Lingus Group PLC has said it will start legal proceedings to force Ryanair Holdings PLC to dispose 
of its 29.4 pct shareholding in the Irish flag carrier.
The move follows confirmation by Philip Lowe, the EU's director general for competition, that the European 
Commission will decide that it does not have legal authority to force the sale of Ryanair's stake following its decision 
to block Ryanair's bid for Aer Lingus.
The Commission's decision allows Aer Lingus to make an appeal to the European Court of First Instance that 
would, if successful, enable the Commission to order Ryanair to dispose of its stake in the Irish flag carrier.
Aer Lingus said it believes EU merger regulation does, in fact, give the Commission the power to force a stake sale 
because the stake was part of the original takeover attempt which the Commission blocked. Aer Lingus said its 
application to the Court of First Instance will be made in the coming weeks.
In a statement released today, Aer Lingus said it would also ask the court to make an order preventing Ryanair from 
interfering in the running of Aer Lingus' business pending judgment on the appeal.
'We are fully prepared to face competitive opposition on the runways and despite its attempts to portray us 
otherwise, a strong, independent and competitive Aer Lingus is an issue for Ryanair, particularly out of Dublin. 
Since this time last year, Ryanair has pursued every available tactic to prevent the further development of Aer 
Lingus as a competitive force, in order to defend its own patch out of Dublin,' John Sharman, Aer Lingus' chairman, 
said in a statement.
Load-Date: October 10, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to contest French labour ruling
Ryanair to contest French labour ruling
Business World (Digest) 
October 10, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 233 words
Highlight: Ryanair said it is to take France to the European Court of Human Rights.
Body
No-frills airline, Ryanair, today said it is to take France to the European Court of Human Rights to challenge a ruling 
that deny Ryanair's employees located in Marseille the right to rely on Irish labour law.
Ryanair's head of regulatory affairs and company secretary, Jim Callaghan, said "the 2006 French Decree No 1425 
was aimed at forcing Ryanair's pilots and cabin crew operating international routes to/from France to be subject to 
French labour law, irrespective of the fact that they are working on Irish registered aircraft and contracts. This was 
clearly in breach of French, European and international laws. Ryanair is committed to defending the rights of its 
employees, including the right of its employees operating on Irish territory to rely on Irish labour law, and has 
therefore challenged the legality of the Decree.
"The French supreme court, which had earlier advised the French government on the legality of the Decree, was 
also the same body that rejected Ryanair's request to refer this matter to the European Court of Justice and then 
ruled that the Decree was lawful."
 "Ryanair is confident that the European Court of Human Rights will correct the obvious injustice caused by the 
French judicial system and allow Ryanair's employees working on Irish aircraft and on Irish contracts to continue to 
enjoy Ryanair's industry leading pay and employment conditions under Irish law". 
Load-Date: October 12, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair welcomes EU Aer Lingus rejection
Ryanair welcomes EU Aer Lingus rejection
Business World (Digest) 
October 10, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 320 words
Highlight: Ryanair has welcomed the EU decision to reject Aer Lingus sale request.
Body
Ryanair has welcomed an admission by the European Commission that it can't force the sale by the no frills airline 
of its stake in Aer Lingus. 
Philip Lowe, the E.U.'s Director General for Competition, says that the European Commission is to adopt a decision 
that the Merger Regulation does not give it the legal authority to force the sale of Ryanair's stake following its 
prohibition of Ryanair's bid for Aer Lingus.
In a statement today Ryanair said, "Ryanair notes the European Commission's confirmation that it has properly 
rejected Aer Lingus' request to force Ryanair to sell its stake in Aer Lingus on the basis that Ryanair has no 
influence or control in Aer Lingus. Given that Aer Lingus has twice rejected Ryanair's request for an EGM, it is 
impossible for Aer Lingus to claim that Ryanair have any influence or control over them. We presume this initiative 
was designed to cover Aer Lingus' embarrassment at a current share price of /e2.35, which is 20pc less than 
Ryanair's offer of E2.80 almost 1 year ago". 
 Aer Lingus has already said that it intends to contest the decision in the European court. Aer Lingus said it is would 
take legal proceedings to force Ryanair to dispose of its shareholding in Aer Lingus. It said that, in the wake of the 
Commission's decision, it will make an appeal to the European Court of First Instance that will, if successful, enable 
the Commission to order Ryanair to dispose of its stake in its main competitor. The airline said, "It is Aer Lingus' 
view that the Regulation does give the Commission that power, since the stake was part of the original takeover 
attempt which the Commission prohibited. "Aer Lingus' application to the Court of First Instance will be made in the 
coming weeks. "Aer Lingus will also ask the Court, as a matter of urgency, to make an order to prevent Ryanair 
from interfering in the running of Aer Lingus' business pending judgment on the appeal." 
Load-Date: October 12, 2007
Ryanair welcomes EU Aer Lingus rejection
End of Document
Aer Lingus legal move on Ryanair stake
Aer Lingus legal move on Ryanair stake
Business World (Digest) 
October 10, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 366 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus is to take legal proceedings against Ryanair.
Body
Aer Lingus said today that it is to take legal proceedings to force Ryanair to dispose of its shareholding in Aer 
Lingus.
This follows confirmation by Philip Lowe, the E.U.'s Director General for Competition, that the European 
Commission is to adopt a decision that the Merger Regulation does not give it the legal authority to force the sale of 
Ryanair's stake following its prohibition of Ryanair's bid for Aer Lingus.
The Commission's decision will open the way for Aer Lingus to make an appeal to the European Court of First 
Instance that would, if successful, enable the Commission to order Ryanair to dispose of its stake in its main 
competitor. 
 The airline said, "it is Aer Lingus' view that the Regulation does give the Commission that power, since the stake 
was part of the original takeover attempt which the Commission prohibited." "Aer Lingus' application to the Court of 
First Instance will be made in the coming weeks. "Aer Lingus will also ask the Court, as a matter of urgency, to 
make an order to prevent Ryanair from interfering in the running of Aer Lingus' business pending judgment on the 
appeal." Summarising the Aer Lingus position Mr John Sharman, Chairman said, "we are fully prepared to face 
competitive opposition on the runways and despite its attempts to portray us otherwise, a strong, independent and 
competitive Aer Lingus is an issue for Ryanair, particularly out of Dublin. Since this time last year, Ryanair has 
pursued every available tactic to prevent the further development of Aer Lingus as a competitive force, in order to 
defend its own patch out of Dublin." "Ryanair's reason for buying shares is to control Aer Lingus via takeover. While 
the European Commission has rejected any takeover, Ryanair has appealed against that decision and in the 
meantime has used its shareholding to attempt to interfere with the commercial business of Aer Lingus and to 
further its own interests. This confirms that the real and only purpose of it holding the shares is its plan to obtain 
control over its main Irish competitor. As the takeover has been barred, it follows that Ryanair's shareholding, built 
up for the purpose of mounting a takeover, should also be barred." 
Aer Lingus legal move on Ryanair stake
Load-Date: October 12, 2007
End of Document
UK to impose green tax on planes
UK to impose green tax on planes
Business World (Digest) 
October 10, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 134 words
Highlight: The UK is to switch green taxes on aviation from passengers to planes.
Body
The UK is to switch green taxes on aviation from passengers to planes in a move that will raise up to £2.5bn 
annually by 2010.
The new and higher duty - to take effect from November 1 2009 and bringing in an additional £100m in the first 12 
months and £520m the following year - was welcomed by green groups but upset Ryanair and other airlines.
Passengers on short-haul flights out of Britain pay £10 duty per economy class ticket, a cost doubled by Gordon 
Brown last year to raise £2bn annually.
 But Chancellor Darling said aviation should make "a greater contribution" in respect of its impact on greenhouse 
gas emissions. "For this to be as environmentally effective as possible ... I intend to levy the duty not on individual 
passengers but on flights, to encourage more efficient use of planes," he said.
Load-Date: October 12, 2007
End of Document
eu lets ryanair keep stake in aer lingus
eu lets ryanair keep stake in aer lingus
WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS
October 10, 2007 Wednesday
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved
Information Bank Abstracts
Section: Section D; Column 1; Pg. 12
Length: 21 words
Body
European regulators have rejected bid by Aer Lingus Group PLC to force Ryanair Holdings PLC to sell its stake in 
Aer Lingus (M)
Load-Date: October 15, 2007
End of Document
Broker Roundup: Credit Suisse positive on Diageo
Broker Roundup: Credit Suisse positive on Diageo
Citywire
October 9, 2007 Tuesday 10:33 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 224 words
Body
Credit Suisse has Diageo as its preferred spirits play in the European beverages sector.
Among other recommendations:
* Exane BNP Paribas reiterates outperform Yell Group
* Bear Stearns reiterates underperform Cadbury
* Altium Securities reiterates buy RDF Media with a 242p target
* Goldman Sachs reiterates sell Tomkins, cutting target tom 220p from 230p, has a neutral on Yell Group, cutting 
target to 502p from 505p and cutting estimates and a neutral for Reuters
* Charles Stanley reiterates hold Regent Inns and reiterates hold NWF with a 210p target
* Merrill Lynch reiterates neutral Reuters, has buy and 190p target for LogicaCMG, a sell for Northern Foods, 
prefers Kelda and Severn Trent but cautious on Northumbrian and Pennon in the water sector.
* JP Morgan has neutral stances on Burberry and Cadbury
* SG Securities initiates coverage of Antofagasta with a sell and 730p target, reiterates hold BHP Billiton raises 
target to £18 and raises estimates
* Evolution Securities reiterates buy Hays with a 195p target, has a reduce and 95p target for Northern Foods and a 
buy and 540p target for Tate & Lyle
* Hichens Harrison upgrades Barclays to add from hold
* Morgan Stanley reiterates overweight easyJet with a 750p target and has an equal-weight and 6.35 target for 
Ryanair
* Deutsche Bank reinitiates coverage of Nokia with a buy and 28 target
Load-Date: October 12, 2007
Broker Roundup: Credit Suisse positive on Diageo
End of Document
ISEQ closes day in negative territory
ISEQ closes day in negative territory
Business World (Digest) 
October 8, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 273 words
Highlight: Shares on the Dublin market closed in negative territory today.
Body
Shares on the Dublin market closed in negative territory today with banking shares proving to be the biggest losers. 
The ISEQ index of Irish shares closed down 34.93 points at 8443.55
Davy Research has said that the extent of insurer FBD share price fall in recent times has surprised them saying it 
is one of the worst performing stocks on the Irish market.
 "The extent of the fall in FBD's share price has surprised us. With a decline of 34pc this year, adjusted for the 500c 
distribution, it is one of the worst performing stocks on the Irish market. Meanwhile, financial shares closed in the 
red. Bank of Ireland dropped 20c to 13.73 and AIB fell 32c to 18.08. Anglo Irish Bank slipped 14c to 13.85 while 
Irish Life and Permanent was down 37c to 17.63. In the construction sector, CRH climbed 7c to 30.65 and Grafton 
dropped 14c to 8.54. McInerney rose 4c to 1.74 and Kingspan was up 34c to 17.69. Elsewhere, Irish 
pharmaceutical company Elan rose 23c to 15.85 and no-frills airline Ryanair was up 2c to 5.52. Other notable 
movers include Icon up 45c to 38,90, Iona up 12c to 2.76, Smurfit Kappa down 30c to 15.55. AGI Therapeutics 
remained flat at 1.47 after the Irish drug developer said it will present favourable results of its Phase II trials of a 
new gastrointestinal drug. The Dublin company will present clinical results of Rezular, AGI's arverapamil (AGI-003) 
product, at the American College of Gastroenterology Scientific Meeting being held in Philadelphia. Jack Gorman, 
analyst at Davy Research said, "the presentation is likely to heighten the scientific, corporate and investor profile of 
the product and of AGI itself." 
Load-Date: October 10, 2007
End of Document
U2 manager's firms' profits up 30pc
U2 manager's firms' profits up 30pc
Business World (Digest) 
October 8, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 128 words
Highlight: Web Reservations International owned by U2's manager saw profits surge 30pc last year.
Body
Web Reservations International (WRI), the online accommodation reservation firm owned by U2's manager, Paul 
McGuinness, saw profits surge 30pc last year.
Its latest accounts show that the firm recorded pre-tax profits of E16.6 million up from E12.8m in 2005. 
WRI owns a number of online accommodation brands including Hostels.com, Hostelworld.com, Boo.com, Trav.com 
and Worldres.com. The company, which is based in Dublin, also provides accommodation through third parties, 
including Ryanair.
 Turnover for the year rose from to E27.2m from E21.7m, according to accounts just filed at the Companies 
Registration Office. The company added 10 staff during the year, bringing the total to 45. The increase pushed up 
wages, which include directors' salaries, to E2.3m from E1.6m.
Load-Date: October 9, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down as financials weigh heavy
ISEQ down as financials weigh heavy
Business World (Digest) 
October 8, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 125 words
Highlight: Shares on the Dublin market were in negative territory this morning.
Body
Shares on the Dublin market were in negative territory this morning as banking shares proving to be the biggest 
losers. 
At 11.20 am, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 64.12 points at 8414.36
Financial shares were mixed. Bank of Ireland dropped 3c to 13.90 and AIB fell 7c to 18.33. Anglo Irish Bank rose 6c 
to 14.05 while Irish Life and Permanent slipped 23c to 17.77.
 In the construction sector, CRH climbed 2c to 30.60 and Grafton dropped 9c to 8.59. McInerney rose 5c to 1.75 
and Kingspan fell 15c to 17.20. Elsewhere, Irish pharmaceutical company Elan slipped 12c to 15.50 and no-frills 
airline Ryanair was up 5c to 5.55. Other notable movers include Iaws up 14c to 16.00, Greencore up 6c to 4.58 and 
Independent News and Media down 10c to 2.95. 
Load-Date: October 10, 2007
End of Document
Sky no limit for train-driver's son
Sky no limit for train-driver's son
Sunday Business Post
October 7, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS FEATURES
Length: 1242 words
Body
Tony Ryan was an 'Olympic' salesman, successfully circling the globe in search of new business, writes Siobhan 
Creaton.
Tony Ryan will be remembered as one of Ireland's greatest entrepreneurs and as a leading figure in the aviation 
industry.
Ryan liked to say that his family had been in the transport business for a thousand years. His grandfather was a 
station master, his father a train driver and Ryan himself went on to found Ryanair.
While a thousand years may be exaggerating the longevity of the Ryan family's association with transport, it is no 
exaggeration to say that Tony Ryan scaled the heights and plumbed the depths of the aviation business.
Born in Keane's Point near Monard in Co Tipperary in 1936, he grew up in Thurles and began his career as a clerk 
with Aer Lingus in Shannon Airport.
Known as an ambitious and hardworking employee, Ryan quickly progressed, moving to New York for a spell as 
the station manager at New York's JFK Airport, before accepting a more challenging brief that would whet his 
entrepreneurial appetite.
Aer Lingus was one of the first airlines in the world to lease out aircraft that lay idle during the quiet winter months to 
other airlines. It brought in welcome revenue for the state airline at the time and Ryan was charged with managing 
this operation. He struck a deal to lease one of the airline's planes to Air Siam in Thailand and moved there with his 
wife Mairead and sons for the duration of the contract.
The Asian aviation market was burgeoning at the time and Ryan recognised there was a demand for aircraft that 
couldn't be met simply from temporary overcapacity at other airlines.
Sky no limit for train-driver's son
He returned to Ireland determined to set up an international aircraft leasing company. In the 1970s,Aer Lingus had 
a small shareholding in the London-based Guinness Peat bank and the companies forged a new joint venture.
In a difficult negotiation, Ryan, who would head Guinness Peat Aviation (GPA), demanded a 10 per cent 
shareholding and re-mortgaged his home to pay for it. GPA went into the business of finding homes for surplus 
aircraft.
Ryan was described as an 'Olympic' salesman, circling the globe in search of new business for GPA. Many of his 
associates have remarked that one of Ryan's greatest strengths was his ability to build a good team around him. He 
was known to be a hard taskmaster.
He held infamous Monday morning meetings that became known as 'seagull meetings', according to one executive, 
because Ryan ''swoops in, shits on everyone from a height and swoops away again''. Ryan had soon amassed an 
incredible fortune and enjoyed a lavish lifestyle.
Nicknamed 'Jumbo' and now permanently tanned, Ryan had a chauffeur-driven Daimler, a two-bed private jet, a 
valuable art collection and homes in Monaco, Mexico City, Ibiza and Hawaii.
He was renowned for throwing lavish parties at his Kilboy House farm in Co Tipperary. He had been known to bring 
bands from Mexico to entertain his guests and once told a reporter: ''I am not a humble man."
Some of his wealth went into other ventures, including the relaunch of the Sunday Tribune newspaper and Matt the 
Thresher's pub, close to his home. By 1991,GPA was the second-biggest aircraft leasing company in the world and 
was preparing to trade on the international stock markets.
Ryan had gathered a coterie of the great and the good to serve as directors, including the former British chancellor 
of the exchequer, Nigel Lawson; Sir John Harvey Jones; former European commissioner Peter Sutherland and 
retired Taoiseach, Garret FitzGerald.
According to one associate: ''He loved the notion that a train-driver's son from Tipperary could get a former 
chancellor of the exchequer to serve on the board of his company."
But the outbreak of the Gulf War following the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq undermined the aviation business and US 
executives stopped flying, sending the entire industry into a depression.
It was a bad time to bring a company like GPA to the market but, with the best advisers in the business, the firm 
forged ahead with plans to raise $1 billion from investors.
The consequences were disastrous. As investors shied away from buying the shares, GPA was forced to abort the 
flotation at the last minute. Within 12 months, GPA was on the verge of bankruptcy and Ryan lost control of the 
company he had founded when General Electric (GE) took over the debt-ridden company.
At the time, Ryan said that Jack Welch, the famous boss of GE, had ''raped'' GPA, to which Welch replied: ''What 
do you expect when you're walking around with no clothes on?'' While Ryan and the GPA executives blamed 
everyone for the company's demise, many commentators suggested that much of the blame lay with Ryan himself 
and the way he controlled the company.
Ryan took the blame, colleagues say, and lost his fortune. On June 18,1992, he was worth $300 million; only a few 
hours later he had debts of $37 million. When friends asked how he was coping with his spectacular loss, he would 
say, ''I sleep like a baby - I wake up every ten minutes screaming!"
After losing control of GPA, Ryan's only hope of recouping his fortune was Ryanair, the airline he had saved from 
bankruptcy for the previous six years - and its future was far from certain. He had set it up for his three sons, initially 
flying between Waterford and Gatwick Airport in London before muscling in on the Dublin - London route.
Sky no limit for train-driver's son
Ryanair managed to get airborne by bypassing the bilateral agreement that fixed the prices charged on the Dublin 
to London route by Aer Lingus and British Airways, by flying between the Irish capital and Luton Airport.
Ryan's former employer, Aer Lingus, had waged a fierce battle against the fledgling airline and it would certainly 
have folded were it not for Ryan's deep pockets and dogged determination. Michael O'Leary, a young accountant 
who was Ryan's personal assistant, had been dispatched by Ryan to try to stem the family's losses from Ryanair.
O'Leary assessed the carrier's operations and quickly advised Ryan to close it down. It would never make money, 
he said. But Ryan wouldn't hear of it and instead persuaded the government to give the airline exclusive rights to fly 
to the newly opened Stansted Airport for three years in the hope that this would finally allow it to make money.
He remained convinced that the airline could position itself as a low-cost carrier and capitalise on the liberalisation 
of European skies. Ryan had followed the fortunes of Southwest Airlines, that had grown to become a successful 
US airline.
O'Leary was persuaded to manage the airline's transformation into a no-frills carrier and stood to make a fortune 
himself after cutting a lucrative arrangement with Ryan. Soon the search got under way to find a partner that would 
buy some of the Ryan family's shareholding and give them some much-needed cash.
After a couple of false dawns, US lawyer David Bonderman and a consortium of investors came on board. They all 
reaped millions when Ryanair floated on the Irish stock market in 1997.Ryanair is now the biggest low-cost airline in 
Europe and one of the most profitable carriers in the world.
O'Leary has often paid tribute to Ryan's role in the airline's success. Ryan stayed as a director of the firm, but had 
sold out almost all of the family's shareholding, and is estimated to have amassed a &euro;1 billion fortune.
Siobhan Creaton is author of Ryanair: the story of Europe's biggest low-cost carrier, published by Aurum Press
Load-Date: October 7, 2007
End of Document
Ryan was a true business pioneer
Ryan was a true business pioneer
Sunday Business Post
October 7, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT AND ANALYSIS
Length: 452 words
Body
To most people - certainly to those in the younger generation - Tony Ryan is associated with Ryanair.
His vision in establishing the airline and sensing the potential from taking on the national carriers has, indeed, left 
an enormous legacy.
Ryanair was a significant catalyst in bringing air travel in Europe - previously the preserve of the better off - to the 
masses.
Yet while the Ryanair story is remarkable, Tony Ryan's most extraordinary venture was surely the establishment 
and growth of GPA.
Here was a business set up, literally, from scratch, which was to become the world leader in aircraft leasing. Unlike 
almost every other business person of the era, Ryan was not content to focus on the Irish market, or even to extend 
his reach to Britain.
No, Ryan's vision was global, and in establishing an international service business from Shannon in the West of 
Ireland, he was surely years ahead of his time.
To succeed in future, we are told, Ireland needs to develop international service business reliant on our brain power 
and agility, on brain rather than brawn. This was precisely the GPA model, under the relentless and driven 
leadership of Ryan.
GPA may not have always been a pleasant place for those who worked there, yet there is no doubting Ryan's 
ability to spot the opportunities and do the deal.
That the flotation of the company collapsed so spectacularly was, no doubt, partly due to the mistakes of its 
management and, yes, to a degree of arrogance. Bad luck, bad advice and bad timing also played a part.
Ryan was a true business pioneer
Yet the lesson remains. World leading businesses can be developed from Ireland if the idea is right and the 
execution sufficiently skilled and determined. A cadre of aircraft leasing companies has continued to operate from 
Ireland up to the present day, almost all staffed or inspired by former GPA executives.
And if successful aircraft leasing businesses can operate from here, then surely there is the basis to develop further 
the burgeoning yet little commented-on area of international services, ranging from finances companies in the IFSC 
to software developers and technology companies around the country.
As part of a rare breed that is the genuine entrepreneur, Ryan was always looking for a new venture, whether it be 
redeveloping a country estate or investing in an airline in Mexico or the Far East.
It surely pleased him in his later years to see that Ireland was changing - that a new generation of Irish people are 
now more prepared to start a business, even if few can aspire to the global ambitions of a GPA.
He would have been pleased that Ireland's attitude is much more open to entrepreneurship, now more likely to be 
supported and cheered than to be the subject of begrudgery.
Load-Date: October 7, 2007
End of Document
He employed the very best
He employed the very best
Sunday Business Post
October 7, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS FEATURES
Length: 616 words
Body
When Tony Ryan started his working career in the early 1950s, Ireland was an aviation backwater with an 
undeveloped peripheral European economy.
When he passed away last week, Ireland's place at the top table of world aviation was entirely a result of his vision 
and uncompromising determination.
Without Ryan, there would have been no GPA and the global aviation financial services it spawned. There would be 
no Ryanair.
Ryan founded GPA in 1975 and Ryanair in 1985 - two events that had a significant impact on the Ireland in which 
we now live.
The Ireland of Ryan's youth was defined by protectionist policies which insulated the country from international 
competition, but also from international opportunity.
Our main export at the time was people and, with a few rare exceptions, entrepreneurship - especially international 
entrepreneurship - was almost non-existent.
However, Ryan saw an opportunity when he started leasing planes for Aer Lingus, which had excess capacity in the 
winter months due to the seasonal fall off of its transatlantic business.
Because of his vision, his dogged commitment and his genius for picking the best and the brightest managers of 
their generation, he founded Guinness Peat Aviation and turned aircraft leasing and finance into a global business 
that is now key to fleet development by airlines worldwide.
Ireland is now a significant global centre for the aircraft leasing and finance industry which grew out of GPA. The 
upper echelons of that industry worldwide are dotted with the alumni of the company that Ryan founded.
He employed the very best
His legacy can also be seen in Shannon, where a whole cluster of industries has formed directly as a result of his 
commitment to the area.
In the depressed Ireland of the mid-1980s, Ryan realised that GPA had become a large company with huge 
revenues, but one which employed very few people relative to its size at its Shannon headquarters.
He set out to do something about this and, in collaboration with his close friend and work colleague Jim King, was 
responsible for setting up the aircraft maintenance company Shannon Aerospace, in a joint venture with Swiss Air 
and Lufthansa.
Shannon Aerospace today employs 850 people. Another company that he encouraged to come to Shannon, 
Shannon Turbine Technology, employs more than 200 people. Other aviation companies followed and the sector 
now employs 1,500 highly-skilled people in the Shannon region.
The progress of Ryanair over the last 20 years mirrors the progress of Ireland itself, as the country moved from 
being an economic basket case to one of the most successful, open traded economies in the world. People now 
speak of the past 20 years as the 'Ryanair generation'.
Ryan was a man of many parts. He received honorary doctorates from the University of Limerick and from NUI 
Galway, where he funded the Martin Ryan Marine Institute with one of the largest private donations ever made to 
an Irish third level institution.
He was also the founding chairman of the Hunt Museum in Limerick. He served as a governor of the National 
Gallery of Ireland, funded a chair at the University of Limerick in aviation technology, helped found an international 
piano competition and the Young Artists Award Scheme.
His greatest quality was his ability to pick outstanding people and give them the space necessary to get on with the 
job.
This is what distinguished the executives who worked for Ryan from the executives who worked for other large Irish 
companies in the 1970s and 1980s.
These other large Irish companies produced managers, but Ryan produced entrepreneurs.
Tadhg Kearney is a director of Shannon Airport Authority and chairman emeritus of the Air Transport Users Council 
of Chambers Ireland
Load-Date: October 7, 2007
End of Document
A brave and visionary man who inspired those who worked for him
A brave and visionary man who inspired those who worked for him
Sunday Business Post
October 7, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS FEATURES
Length: 2015 words
Body
Tony Ryan's unique success was rooted in his relentless nature and his passionate approach, writes his one-time 
PA, Denis O'Brien.
Tony Ryan was a man of varied parts. To most people, he is probably best remembered for creating Guinness Peat 
Aviation (GPA) and Ryanair - the former becoming the largest aircraft leasing company in the world and the latter 
one of the most successful airlines in the world.
However, he was also a father, husband, grandfather, a Tipperary Irishman, business leader, teak-tough boss, 
restorer of old buildings, interior designer, sage of style, farmer and cattle and horse breeder, patron of the arts, 
raconteur and loyal friend. These are the hurried descriptions of Tony Ryan and his life and times. For those of us 
who worked very closely with him, he had many attributes.
In the 1980s, not many Irish companies were global in outlook and vision. The exceptions were GPA, CRH and 
Smurfit - and the more I read about Tony Ryan, the more attracted to him I was, just like many other young 
managers starting their careers.
I have always believed the direct route is best and so, in search of a job, I wrote to Tony and was called to 
interview. It didn't last very long, but I ended up being his first personal assistant. It sounded great, but little did I 
realise how relentless a personality my boss was in everything he did.
Working for Tony was like an A&E ward for business learning. I lived in a wing of his house at Kilboy, Co Tipperary, 
in a wonderful tranquil rural setting. When he was in Ireland, each day began with a car journey to the GPA 
headquarters at Shannon, always at the crack at dawn.
Tony would take out a pad from his ostrich-skin briefcase and there would be hundreds of action items to be 
attended to. Urgency was his mantra; everything had to be done immediately. I recall one night, after he watched 
Ryan's Daughter, he told me to buy the schoolhouse in Dunquin which featured those tender scenes between 
Robert Mitchum and Sarah Miles.
A brave and visionary man who inspired those who worked for him
After three weeks of anonymous haggling with an English owner, I reported back that the purchase had been 
completed. I was pretty proud of having landed the schoolhouse, but he just replied: ''Okay."
In the first week of my job, I was having dinner with him at Kilboy, a regular ritual which involved going through the 
list of tasks he had set and giving an update on each one. At that time, he was enthusiastic about breeding Blonde 
D'Aquitaine cattle and the proceedings were interrupted when Paddy Ryan, the farm manager, burst through the 
door shouting: ''She's calving, she's calving!"
Tony jumped and ran after Paddy and, within minutes, we were pulling a calf in a manner akin to skiing off the back 
of a motor boat. All I could think of was my (new and only) FX Kelly suit, which was about to be destroyed. Swiftly, 
and unnoticed, I positioned myself behind Tony, a man of many suits, as the calf was born.
Some time later, Tony decided to become involved in the milk production business and I was dispatched with 
Paddy to buy 82 cows around the country. We were now in the dairy business.
When it came to new businesses or projects, the word ''instant'' was always used - and the most frequently-used 
word in the instructions being handed down was ''now''. When I used to meet my GPA colleagues, they would 
signal their deep sympathy by asking me how Iwas getting on and throwing their eyes heavenwards.
On another occasion, Tony had 20 Americans over for dinner as part of the negotiation process to the clinching of 
another mega-deal. A cordon bleu chef was hired for the night and she had planned for dinner in Kilboy to be 
served at 8.30pm.
But Tony decided to warm up the Americans with a pre-dinner drinks reception which lasted three hours -a vital part 
of his plan to shake them up for the next day's negotiation. By 10.30pm,Tony was still topping up the glasses. He 
was on a roll.
The cordon bleu chef began complaining tome that she was a professional, and that serving food at the appointed 
time was an essential part of quality cuisine. I whispered into Tony's ear that she was becoming more and more 
upset but Tony simply told me to tell her: ''Fuck off."
That's just what she did - she abandoned the job, fled the kitchen and the last glimpse I got was of her Volvo tearing 
down the driveway. I went back to Tony and his response was to give me a bollocking, as if it was all my fault.
That was my signal to get an apron and help Tony's driver, Sean Kennedy, to plate the starter, re-heat the main 
course and slice the beef. Nobody was any the wiser. Tony loved special friendships. One day, he asked me to 
checkout the availability of a red Ferrari. I duly flew to Heathrow, caught a taxi to the Maranello Ferrari dealership 
and told the salesman I wanted to buy one, but said I was unsure as to which model.
That presented me with a wonderful opportunity to go for a rip on theM25 for the afternoon, testing about four 
models. If the lads in Hartigans could only see me. . .
That evening I reported back to Tony with all the usual forensic detail required in such situations and a 
recommendation on which model to buy. For some inexplicable reason, he had changed his mind. He wanted a 
DeLorean instead.
So I spent three days in Britain on this latest quest and eventually I found the required car at a dealership in north 
London.
Tony told me to conclude the purchase with an instruction to have it sprayed Ferrari red, much to the horror of the 
salesman who kept reminding me that this was a stainless-steel car and should be left as it was.
Like a character in The Bourne Identity, I awaited my next instruction, which was to deliver the car quite some 
distance from London at precisely 8.30am on a Sunday. I left myself two days for this trip, as I did not want to miss 
this deadline - which for reasons not explained to me was a most important event.
A brave and visionary man who inspired those who worked for him
I was driving the spanking new DeLorean on theM1 on the Sunday morning - cruising at around 80 miles per hour - 
when suddenly there was a loud bang. I immediately pulled off the road and sought expert advice from a 
breakdown service, only to be told that the engine had seized. Oh Jesus!
I practised what I was going to say to Tony, before locating a coin box to deliver the bad news. Acute anxiety had 
set in, my heart was thumping, and with deep breaths, I slotted the coins, dialled the number and Tony answered.
I had only uttered four words when the volcanic verbals erupted. The grand plan was up in smoke, literally. I 
avoided all contact for four days and he had calmed down when we next met in Shannon. I moved swiftly on to my 
next task. I never heard how the proposed recipient of the special vehicle was placated, if at all.
In 1985,GPAwas going though a phenomenal growth phase and General Electric (GE)was targeted as a potential 
equity provider. Negotiations started for GE to buy 18.1 per cent of the company.
Tony adopted a wonderfully sophisticated ''boy meets girl'' approach and, on this occasion, he was the girl. The 
courtship began, metaphorically speaking, with trouser suits in the beginning, later moving on to tighter skirts, 
moving above the knee.
Negotiations culminated in Kilboy where the chief executive of GE Credit Corporation, Gary Wendt, and his senior 
executives had gathered. Tony always wanted to play at home, particularly when there was a deal in the offing and 
the potential partners were from overseas.
On this occasion, however, discussions were beginning to go badly. There was an impasse and heavy levels of 
testosterone flowed across the table. In a tactic that I used later when selling Esat to British Telecom, Tony, sensing 
that the deal was about to crash land, said to Wendt: ''Let's go for a walk."
Before Wendt could even respond, Tony handed him a pair of scruffy Wellingtons and, within minutes, they were 
heading down to the farm, where Tony struck a deal and shook his hand. Nothing was said when they arrived back 
to the meeting room, but their broad smiles communicated that the two principals had it all worked out.
Suddenly it was a love fest. GPA had gone up another level and another one of Tony's written annual objectives 
had been achieved.
The Monday morning meetings at GPA at Shannon were like scenes from Gladiator. Each executive had to give a 
detailed account of how each deal was going. Tony would tell the executive what to say to the customer, right down 
towhatwords to use.
This would have to be rehearsed before all negotiations. When he would call a post-mortem on the negotiations, the 
executive in question would be interrogated in inquisitorial fashion about what exactly was said at every stage of the 
discussions.
Tony was prone to giving the most brutal feedback imaginable, particularly if you could not give the most precise of 
accounts, matching what he had dictated before the start of negotiations.
When GPA bought its first Boeing 747 from Air China and was having difficulty finding a lessee, Tony told everyone 
he was going to move the Monday morning meetings to the aircraft - which was strategically parked within viewing 
distance of the boardroom - until a customer was procured.
But while he was relentless with people, nobody worked harder and travelled more than Tony. He surrounded 
himself with brilliant managers - Maurice Foley, Colm Barrington, Peter Ledbetter, Jim King, John Tierney and many 
others. There was real ability in the company.
Apart from spawning a totally new part of the aviation finance industry, Tony was the person who changed the 
European airline industry with the creation of Ryanair.
A brave and visionary man who inspired those who worked for him
Against the advice of his closest confidants, he persisted with Ryanair from a small Bandorante aircraft with one 
route from Waterford to Gatwick in 1985 to the colossus that Ryanair is today.
He put more than half of his dividend income, which was a huge sum of money in today's terms, into funding 
Ryanair's losses for nearly 10 years. Michael O'Leary deserves the credit for making Ryanair the commercial 
success it is today, but Tony Ryan was the brave and visionary individual who founded, funded and persevered 
until it was at cruising altitude.
In today's terms, he probably put &euro;300 million on the line. It was some risk. The difficulties of GPA - after the 
failed flotation led to the sale of the business, ironically to GE - were soon overtaken by the incredible financial 
recovery Tony enjoyed with the flotation of Ryanair in 1997.Every executive who worked for Tony in GPA was 
cheering him on.
It is quite amazing how so many people who left GPA went on to enjoy success, and it is no wonder that Ireland has 
become the financial capital for aircraft leasing. When I learned of Tony's illness at first, I was not too concerned 
because of his iron will.
I was convinced that, if there was anyone who would pull through, it was him. Earlier this year, I went with PJ Mara 
to see him a couple of times in the Bahamas, where he was recovering from his cancer treatment. When you mixed 
Tony and PJ, you got great laughter.
Last week, I went see Tony in the Lyons Demesne. He was surrounded by his sons and his grandchildren and his 
closest friend, Martine. He questioned me as to what I was up to and I gave him a download, just as I would have 
reported to him years earlier.
At one stage, he heard his helicopter land outside, and gave an immediate instruction to get an aerial photograph of 
the estate.
He had me running around the bedroom looking for the latest plans for further renovations on the demesne. He was 
dishing out instructions to me, and laughed when I told him I was no longer his PA. I joked and told him to get lost. 
He summoned Derek Doyle, his loyal right-hand man for 22 years, and asked him to bring me to see the houses he 
was restoring and a new project he was considering.
He was in full Bob The Builder mode again. When I got back from my tour, he ordered food and a bottle of Chateau 
Lascombe and encouraged me to drink up. After about three hours, I left him. Before departing, I embraced him for 
the very first time.
I told him I would be back to see him last Thursday on my return from China. It was not to be.
Load-Date: October 7, 2007
End of Document
Skiing, Slovakia -style
Skiing, Slovakia-style
Sunday Business Post
October 7, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: PROPERTY
Length: 1307 words
Body
Slovakia has emerged as an attractive skiing location, combining its beautiful natural amenities with a thriving 
economy, writes Gordon Miller.
The Alps and even the Dolomites may be better known European ski destinations than the Tatras Mountains, but 
don't let that put you off exploring what Slovakia's ski resorts have to offer.
Rising to higher than 2,600 metres, there's plenty to get excited about, especially as the ski season lasts from 
November until the end of April - a lot longer than in many resorts - and a two-day ski pass only costs around EUR 
50.
Even better, there are direct two-hour flights from Ireland to the landlocked country that lies to the east of the Czech 
Republic, and also borders Poland, Ukraine, Austria and Hungary. Ryanair flies from Dublin to Bratislava, the 
capital city, located in the west of the country, approximately a three-hour drive from decent skiing in the Low and 
High Tatras Mountains.
For outdoors enthusiasts, the cedar pine tree-clad High and Low Tatras ranges are the country's main attraction, 
despite a large swathe of the High Tatras having been decimated by a freak storm three years ago. It is estimated it 
will take 20 years for it to recover its former forestation. Nevertheless, several ski resorts - linked by a train - remain 
operational and popular with local and international snow bunnies.
Stanislava Saffova, a native of Slovakia and a business development manager, who has skied for more than 20 
years on slopes around Europe, feels that the country has something for every level of skier.' 'In the High Tatras 
you will find great skiing and mountaineering around the most famous and visited peak, Lomnicke Stit, at 2,634 
metres," she said.
''The new Interski development, in the traditional resort of Strbske Pleso, was welcomed by locals and foreigners 
alike. In terms of ski alpinism and off-piste, you cannot miss Lomnicke Sedlo-Skalnatw Pleso, which offers 
opportunities for adrenalin addicts and boasts the longest snow season in the High Tatras."
Skiing, Slovakia -style
South facing, the High Tatras descend to a valley that links it with the Low Tatras.( The north side of the High 
Tatras is in Poland, the ridge along the mountain peaks forming the border.) Unaffected by the devastating storm, 
the northern slopes of the lower range are said to offer some of the best local skiing. Saffova picks the area as her 
personal recommendation.
''Located near Liptovsk 2 Mara Lake in the Low Tatras, I personally recommend Jasna resort. It represents the most 
complex Slovakian resort with 43 kilometres of slopes, cross-country tracks running through pine forests and a fully-
fledged snowboard park hosting international events."
Local property developer Daniel Dobrota, an experienced mountaineer, is aiming to build a new ski resort at Jasna. 
Currently awaiting full planning permission, he intends to construct ski chalets that he expects will sell to the 
domestic and overseas market.
He is also planning a ski resort comprising 350 apartments and a four-star hotel nearby at Ruzemberok.
Dobrota is already developing beside Liptovska Mara lake, near to Liptovsky Mikulas, a town situated in the valley 
that separates the High and Low Tatras. The development, named Sunrise, will begin construction in April 2008 
with plans for 120 apartments, a business centre and wellness centre.P rices will start from around EUR 2,000 per 
square metre.
Property prices locally range between EUR 1,250 and EUR 2,000 per square metre. On the outskirts of Telgart, in 
the Low Tatras and 15 miles from Poprad, an apartment under construction at the foot of a north-facing ski resort 
costs from EUR 1,250 per square metre.
A studio apartment at phase II of the development, scheduled to begin construction in spring 2008, is priced from 
EUR 34,500.
''The apartments at Telgart are good value for money, compared to prices being quoted in the High Tatras less than 
30 kilometres away. The Telgart Apartments are well priced and make a good investment purchase, as well as 
being a lifestyle buy for the keen skier, walker and nature lover. There's also good rental potential in high season." 
said Otilia Simkova, head of Slovak sales for agent The Right Move Abroad.
Not only does the long ski season promise a strong yield, tax on rental income - levied at a flat 19 per cent but 
effectively charged at 11.4 per cent because of allowances - is low in Slovakia. The flat taxation scheme employed 
is a progressive measure that belies the fact that Slovakia was a communist state from 1948 to 1990, suffering at 
the hands of local party officials, and later under the might of the Soviet Union.
Democratic since 1991 and fully independent from its Czech neighbour since 1993, the nascent country has been 
an EU member since 2004.I t has a 78 per cent probability of adopting the euro as its currency in 2009. 
Economically, the country's gross domestic performance is among the best in the EU, achieving 7.9 per cent last 
year. Foreign debt is low and unemployment is falling.
The youth are largely university educated, and a great number study in the town of Banska Brystica.
''BB, as it's called locally, with a population of around 90,000, is home to approximately 11,000 students, which 
makes it a strong property market," said Simkova.
''A yield of 10 per cent is not uncommon on a student let, primarily because four people will often share a two-
bedroom apartment in order to keep their costs low. A new shopping centre, business centre, industrial park and 
highway linking the city to Nitra and on to Bratislava all add to the investment potential."
Dobrota has plans to develop a ski resort close to Banska Brystica that he claims will raise the bar in the area. 
Currently, Saffova said Park Snow Donovaly is the trendiest resort locally: ''It's a hip resort with the best apres-ski, 
and it also has a good snowboard park and night skiing."
Skiing, Slovakia -style
Less than 40 minutes' drive from the slopes of Donovaly, The Right Move Abroad is selling two chalets in the small 
community of Zazriva. Newly built, the three-bedroom, two-bathroom wooden properties have an open-plan living 
area and attic storage space that could be used as an additional children's bedroom or play area.
Measuring a total of 151 square metres with 700 square metres of land, the chalets are priced at EUR 182,500.
Simkova said: ''Zazriva is a Slovak artists' hide-out. It is a lively village located in the heart of Slovak mountains, but 
still only around 20 kilometres from Zilina airport.
There are approximately 40 kilometres of ski-slopes in several resorts within and around the village, which itself is a 
charming combination of traditional chalets and more modern weekend houses owned mostly by well-off Slovaks."
Buying in Slovakia
* There are no restrictions on foreign property ownership and there is no stamp duty or purchase tax payable 
locally. Tax on rental income is levied at 19 per cent but is effectively 11.4 per cent because of allowances.
* Capital gains tax is charged at 19 per cent of the gain in Slovakia, but is nil after five years ownership for non-
residents and after two years for residents.
* There is no inheritance tax or wealth tax in Slovakia.
* Non-resident mortgages are available with a 70 per cent loan-to-value ratio, and interest rates are currently 
between 6.1 and 6.7per cent.
* Low prices are a main draw to the country. A plate of pasta - Italian food is popular along with more traditional 
''peasant'' foods, such as dried meats, cabbages and potatoes, often in the same dish - in a good local restaurant 
costs EUR 3 to EUR 4.A loaf of bread from a bakery costs 20 to 30 cent and a drinkable bottle of local wine costs 
from EUR 4 in a supermarket.
A two-day ski pass that can be used in several High Tatras resorts costs from around EUR 50.
Contacts
The Right Move Abroad: 0044-1606-888886, or log on at www.therightmoveabroad.com.
Load-Date: October 7, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus to meet Siptu over work practice changes
Aer Lingus to meet Siptu over work practice changes
Sunday Business Post
October 7, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 452 words
Body
Aer Lingus will agree to a phase-in period for the implementation of work practice changes across the airline - 
provided it achieves its overall objectives to bring the company's costs in line with its competitors, writes Niamh 
Connolly.
The airline's chief executive Dermot Mannion will meet Siptu tomorrow in what could prove a stormy meeting over a 
pay freeze announced by the airline to force the pace of a cost-cutting package.
Aer Lingus urgently needs to cut costs by &euro;20 million a year as part of its defence against a takeover bid by 
Ryanair, while it must also secure a deal with pilots to establish its new base at Belfast.
Announcing the pay freeze last week, Mannion indicated his determination to have the Programme for Continuous 
Improvement (PCI) implemented by December.
However, while the Labour Court supported the rationale for cost cuts at the airline last week, it also said the 
programme should be introduced incrementally.
In an apparent concession on the timeframe, Aer Lingus told The Sunday Business Post this weekend: ''In relation 
to the timeframe recommended in the Labour Court, we accept that there will be a phase-in period in order to 
implement work practice changes across the organisation, provided we do achieve our overall objectives.
''The long-term objectives of the Programme for Continuous Improvement for the future of Aer Lingus is to bring the 
company in line with competitors and to address productivity and cost effectiveness."
A spokeswoman for the airline clarified that ''some of the changes including a number of those set out in the Labour 
Court recommendation can be implemented immediately, while others will require a phasing-in period''.
She added that an agreement on all outstanding matters relating to the programme, including balloting, needed to 
be finalised by the year end.
Aer Lingus to meet Siptu over work practice changes
The government is urging both sides to use dispute resolution mechanisms to break the impasse on a programme 
that has been under discussion for the past ten months.
The Taoiseach Bertie Ahern believes the mechanisms available under the social partnership agreement 'Towards 
2016' should be exhausted before the National Implementation Body, is obliged to arbitrate, according to a 
spokesman.
Last week, Siptu president Jack O'Connor said the Aer Lingus pay freeze had implications for the government and 
for future social partnership deals. The union has warned that the action by Aer Lingus could lead to industrial 
action.
Siptu said it would challenge the pay freeze in tomorrow's talks. ''There are a wide range of options open to us and 
there are procedures under Towards 2016, but I don't know where blackmail fits into Towards 2016," said Mike 
Halpenny, Siptu national organiser.
Load-Date: October 7, 2007
End of Document
The Inquisitor: Aer Lingus pay freeze reflects management's frustration
The Inquisitor: Aer Lingus pay freeze reflects management's frustration
Sunday Business Post
October 7, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: THE MARKET
Length: 979 words
Body
They said the new power-sharing administration in the North would be ''a battle a day''.
No doubt Aer Lingus chief executive Dermot Mannion has become familiar with the phrase. No words could better 
sum up the task Mannion and his management team face on the industrial relations front.
Last week's decision by Mannion to freeze pay increases until there is agreement on cost cutting reflects a 
frustration at the airline.
The Labour Court expressed concern that management and unions had failed to agree or implement any cost-
cutting and productivity changes it had recommended seven months ago.
Having used the industrial relations machinery, the airline is no closer to a cost-cutting breakthrough.
In the old days of full state ownership, there was a kind of uneasy equilibrium at Aer Lingus. Management tried to 
cut costs. The unions stood firm. The government got involved and a compromise that broadly favoured the staff 
was reached.
Now it is a publicly quoted company, there is a greater urgency for management to reduce costs and remain 
competitive.
Former chief executive Willie Walsh managed to draw up and partially implement a strategic plan for the airline. 
Now the task has fallen to Mannion to implement it.
The most interesting indication as to whether anything has changed at Aer Lingus will be the reaction of the 
government.
It is still one of the biggest shareholders in the company and if it should choose to interfere in the latest row about 
pay increases, then surely Aer Lingus management will have to just throw their hat at it.
The Inquisitor: Aer Lingus pay freeze reflects management's frustration
However, the signs are encouraging. The government decided not to interfere in the Aer Lingus decision to 
abandon Shannon/Heathrow flights. If Taoiseach Bertie Ahern can resist the obvious union calls to get involved, 
there may be some chance of resolving the issues.
Mannion is playing tough on this one. Transport minister Noel Dempsey does not seem overly exercised by the 
latest Aer Lingus row and the government maintains this is one for the Department of the Taoiseach, because it is 
seen as a national partnership issue.
Ultimately, management and unions should be able to resolve these issues, but only against the backdrop of 
normal industrial relations ''push and shove''. Making progress on costs is important for Aer Lingus.
Its shares were trading last week around the &euro;2.35 level. This was down 14 per cent since January and just 
above their 2007 low of &euro;2.29 on September 27.
Lots of investors who bought in after the flotation are in the red at this stage including Ryanair, Denis O'Brien, the 
staff share trust and the pilots. The bargain basement float price of &euro;2.20 is not looking quite so cheap right 
now.
Mannion has a tough job to do, but he is showing the energy to get it done. We'll have to wait and see who wins the 
''battle a day''.
IDA still has work to do
The final nail in the coffin for Amgen in Cork came last week when the company confirmed it would not go ahead 
with its planned 1,100job investment. The phrase it used was that the project had been ''indefinitely postponed''.
I suppose you can never say never, but the fact is this project is gone. The news comes as a massive blow to the 
79 people already working down there, who will lose their jobs, and it is an unfortunate turn of events for the Cork 
region, which would have benefited from a project of this scale.
Enterprise Minister Micheal Martin and outgoing IDA Ireland chief executive Sean Doran were both keen to 
emphasise that the project was not going ahead anywhere else and therefore, it was not a reflection of any loss of 
competitiveness on Ireland's part.
That is fair enough and we know that Amgen had company specific issues which prompted it to pull the plug on this 
investment.
The picture in the background is mixed in terms of Ireland's performance in continuing to attract foreign direct 
investment (FDI).
In the area of life sciences - which includes pharmaceuticals, healthcare and biotechnology - we continue to do well, 
as reflected in research by OCO which is reported on our news pages today.
FDI into Ireland in this sector is the highest in Europe. These are high quality jobs and our recent success in this 
field reflects the success of IDA Ireland's stated strategy of focusing on these kinds of roles.
Of the $5.9 billion of life sciences FDI into the 15 countries of the EU in the 12 months to July 2007, Ireland got 
$1.59 billion, or 26 per cent of it. That is a very strong figure. However, our lack of competitiveness in manufacturing 
is an issue.
Just four years ago, 25 per cent of all FDI projects into Ireland could be classified as manufacturing. So far this year 
it is just 5 per cent.
The average number of jobs created per FDI project in 2005 was 170.So far this year, it is 72.IDAIreland can argue 
that the 72 jobs tend to be higher quality and higher paid value-added employment.
The Inquisitor: Aer Lingus pay freeze reflects management's frustration
However, with a rising population, this means more people will be pushed into service jobs to support these multi-
national projects rather working in them directly.
While we continued to do well in attracting FDI in life sciences, IT and financial services during the four years since 
2003, the number of projects we have attracted in food, creative industries, transport equipment and tourism have 
fallen.
We are also not doing enough in areas of software development. We are not performing when it comes to attracting 
environmental technology projects. These are all growth areas.
Perhaps the most interesting figure is that in 2003, we got 6 to 7 per cent of all EU FDI projects EU. So far this year, 
the figure is running at 5 per cent.
We are still consistently landing around 100 projects per year, but our market share has slipped, the OCO data 
would suggest.
Multinationals are still coming to Ireland and investing in our economy. However, while some of the patterns are 
encouraging, others give cause for alarm.
Load-Date: October 7, 2007
End of Document
Farce and fisticuffs with the chairman of the board
Farce and fisticuffs with the chairman of the board
Sunday Business Post
October 7, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT AND ANALYSIS
Length: 1210 words
Body
Tony Ryan and I fought almost right from the beginning. It didn't quite come to fisticuffs, aside from on one occasion 
when a blow was struck.
The first occasion I recall was an early encounter at one of his then homes, on Wellington Road in Dublin, some 
time in late 1982, after the relaunch of the Sunday Tribune had been underway for a month or so. (The relaunch 
actually took place in April 1983.)
I don't recall the issue of disagreement but, at some stage during our discussion, I characterised Tony in away that 
he did not appreciate. He invited me to withdraw the characterisation. I declined.
He repeated the invitation. I declined again. There were two others present.
One of them was John Kelleher, the former controller of programmes on RTE Television, who had just been 
appointed managing director of the new Sunday Tribune (he is now the film censor).The other - I think - was Denis 
O'Brien, who was then Tony's personal assistant.
If not Denis, it was probably Donal Flynn, who was one of Tony's accountants and had been appointed a director of 
the new publishing company of the newspaper. Donal was, and is, very clever, with a very fine line in laconic 
humour. But he was prone to panicking.
When I declined a second time to withdraw the characterisation, Tony rose from his chair at the dining-room table 
and invited me to do likewise, so that we could resolve our disagreement in a ''manly'' fashion. I did so, and we 
squared up to each other. Just as a blow was about to be struck, John Kelleher and those others present 
intervened, and we were dragged apart.
There was a similar episode at the home of Peter Ledbetter, an associate of Tony at GPA, who had also been 
appointed to the board of the new Tribune.
Farce and fisticuffs with the chairman of the board
Again, intervention prevented an exchange of blows, and again, I have no recollection what the disagreement was 
about, but I am quite sure that it was a matter of important principle.
Our final confrontation took place at what transpired to be the final board meeting of Tony's involvement with the 
newspaper, in the summer of 1984. I assume, in retrospect, that the meeting was called in order to get rid of me 
from the company. It took place in a small narrow room of a solicitor's office at the top of Kildare Street, opposite 
the Shelbourne Hotel.
Tony sat at the top of the table near the door. I sat at the bottom of the table with my back to the window. On Tony's 
left was Eugene O'Neill (the first MD of Ryanair), who had succeeded John Kelleher as managing director.
Next to Eugene was Arthur Walls, the chairman of Clery's and a director of GPA - also, of course, director of the 
Sunday Tribune. Next to Arthur, beside me, was Donal Flynn.
On Tony's right were Denis O'Brien, Peter Ledbetter and Sean McBride - yes, the former chief of staff of the IRA, 
the former Minister for External Affairs from 1948 to 1951, the founder of Clann na Poblachta, and later Nobel 
Peace Prize winner.
I had been permitted by Tony to nominate a director in addition to myself, and I had nominated Sean McBride, 
thinking that Tony would defer to him. Wrong. . .
The meeting was chaotically chaired by Tony (I gather he was far more focused as chairman of GPA).And then, out 
of the blue, Eugene O'Neill proposed that I be fired. But he so mistimed his intervention that nobody paid any 
attention.
A few minutes later, in what seemed tome an attempt to retrieve the situation, Eugene announced: ''As managing 
director of this company, I say we are insolvent." (The company was making a loss, but it was not at all in the same 
league as the losses that have occurred since Tony O'Reilly grabbed 29.9 per cent of the paper.)
Tony, never a man to shrink from the brink of any confrontation, replied to Eugene's intervention: ''As financier of 
this company, I say I am investing no more money."
At that point, Donal Flynn leapt up and, donning a ridiculous Lenin-style cap, said he was resigning. Then, pointing 
at each of the directors, he said: ''From this moment onwards each director is responsible for the debts of the 
company."
He then attempted to leave by pushing his way behind Arthur Walls, who was a corpulent man and whose chair 
was already back onto the wall in that very narrow room.
To that, Sean McBride replied, in that brokenly slurred French accent which was one of his distinguishing features: 
''I have never seen a better impersonation of Schuschnigg in my life'' - a reference to the Austrian chancellor who 
had capitulated to Hitler in 1938.
Donal was one of the few who got the reference, and was outraged. He demanded that Denis O'Brien, as company 
secretary, take note of the remark about Schuschnigg and his protestations about being compared to him.
Tony asked: ''Who the fuck is Schuschnigg?"
At this stage, Arthur Walls was being heaved over the table, Donal was demanding that Denis record word-for-word 
what was being said about Schuschnigg, and some of us - including Tony - were in fits of helpless laughter at the 
chaos of it all.
Donal had finally beaten his way out of the room, and I said that I would undertake to finance the company over the 
following two weeks, to allow for a smooth transfer of Tony's worthless majority shareholding to me. Tony could 
have retrieved the situation by retracting his remark about not providing further finance, but he was not a man for 
retraction.
Farce and fisticuffs with the chairman of the board
My proposal was agreed, and the meeting was adjourned.
Tony was incandescent. He stood at the top of the table beside the door with his fists raised, waiting for me to exit. I 
followed Sean McBride to the door, but before Sean was out of the way, Tony threw a punch which glanced off 
Sean, who went down, theatrically shouting: ''He hit me, he hit me! Call the guards! Call the guards!"
I professed my outrage, and was encouraged by a wink from Sean to join in the drama. The other directors, who 
had left the room, rushed back to see the Nobel Peace Prize winner lying on the floor.
Tony was even more enraged, knowing that this was all staged, but he had (just about) sufficient self-control to 
leave it at that.
Once we were no longer business ''partners'' (what a ludicrous description of our relationship), we became friends 
and met fairly frequently for a few years, often recalling our memories of our time ''working'' together!
We didn't get on in business, because we were too alike. Not that I had any of his entrepreneurial genius or his 
energy, but we were similar temperamentally: stubborn (just a tad on my part), short-tempered (just a tinge on my 
part), sometimes irrational (very occasionally on my part).
But we had abroadly similar outlook on life, perhaps due to our rural backgrounds. Tony had the misfortune to come 
from County Tipperary, a burden that he endured stoically.
He was hugely intelligent, massively driven, superb on detail, hopeless at people management, a control freak, 
funny, generous, and great to be with - provided that the control freakiness was on hold at the time.
We disagreed on almost everything, certainly political matters - I thought he had no right to fund the PDs, he 
thought this was a constitutional right.
Tony thought everyone could succeed as he had done if they only tried, in the process overlooking his own 
exceptional abilities. I liked him, and I think he liked me, and I am sorry he is gone.
Load-Date: October 7, 2007
End of Document
EasyJet set to take off as it lifts profit guidance for the year
EasyJet set to take off as it lifts profit guidance for the year
Financial Times (London, England)
October 6, 2007 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES - UK AND IRELAND; Pg. 19
Length: 400 words
Byline: By ALISTAIR GRAY
Body
EasyJet, the budget airline, has lifted profit guidance for the year, in spite of a squeeze on demand from increased 
passenger duty and rising fuel costs.
European expansion, cost-cutting and a one-off Pounds 11m gain from an investment in the consortium that runs 
the UK air traffic control system will result in pre-tax profit growth at the upper end of a previously announced 40-50 
per cent range, the carrier said yesterday.
Jeff Carr, chief financial officer, said the airline was better placed than Ryanair, its bigger rival, to cope with 
challenging market conditions because of its mix of business travellers and tourists.
Mr Carr said the company saw "opportunities throughout Europe" for further expansion, particularly in Spain and 
France.
The airline plans to increase revenue from non-flight products such as package holidays and car rentals. These 
represent less than 10 per cent of sales.
The airline's fleet now totals 137, a net increase of 15 from the previous year. EasyJet plans to reduce its reliance 
on relatively expensive leased aircraft and in the long-term to replace its 30 Boeing 737-700 models with cheaper 
Airbus counterparts.
Average ticket prices fell 6.8 per cent in the second half, although the company is not planning substantial price 
cuts over the winter.
EasyJet, which reports its financial results in November, disclosed the upbeat forecast as it announced a 13 per 
cent rise in passenger numbers - now 37.2m across the continent - for the 12 months ended in September.
Shares in EasyJet rose 24p to close at 571 1/2p.
EasyJet set to take off as it lifts profit guidance for the year
Meanwhile, Aer Lingus, the Irish airline that was privatised last year, yesterday said its September passenger 
figures were up 9 per cent on a year earlier thanks to additional aircraft and a new route, but said its aircraft were 
not as full as a year ago.
On short-haul routes its load factor rose to 80.5 per cent from 80 per cent of capacity, in spite of a year-on-year 
capacity increase of 9.8 percent. The number of passengers rose 7.8 percent to 742,000.
On long-haul routes, its load factor fell to 67.9 percent from 72.8 per cent a year earlier, largely due to increased 
capacity provided by two additional aircraft. The number of passengers increased 18 per cent to 105,000. The 
airline launched the first of three new transatlantic routes, to Washington Dulles, in August.
Services to San Francisco and Orlando will begin at the end of the month.
Load-Date: October 5, 2007
End of Document
TONY RYAN 1936-2007: HE SAW VALUE IN LEASING PLANES, LOW-FARE AIRLINES
TONY RYAN 1936-2007: HE SAW VALUE IN LEASING PLANES, LOW-FARE 
AIRLINES
WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS
October 6, 2007 Saturday
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved
Information Bank Abstracts
Section: Section A; Column 3; Pg. 17
Length: 14 words
Byline: Daniel Michaels
Body
Remembrances column notes death of Tony Ryan, founder of Ryanair airlines; photo (M)
Load-Date: October 8, 2007
End of Document
Low-cost airline easyJet expects profits to hit top end of forecasts
Low-cost airline easyJet expects profits to hit top end of forecasts
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 5, 2007 Friday 4:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 228 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Low-cost airline easyJet PLC said Friday it expects full-year profit growth to come in toward the top end of 
forecasts, boosted by stronger passenger demand, cost cutting and an investment gain.
Europe's second-largest budget carrier also said in a statement that its overall pretax profit will likely beat that 
earlier prediction of 40 percent to 50 percent growth because of the one-time gain.
Passenger numbers rose by 14.2 percent to 3.4 million in September compared to a year earlier, easyJet said. Also 
helping were cost controls and an 11 million pound (US$22 million, €16 million) refund from an investment in The 
Airline Group Ltd., a consortium of seven British airlines with a stake in Britain's air traffic service provider.
"We are pleased with our performance over the last financial year, having achieved significant improvement in 
margins despite the doubling of air passenger duty in the U.K. and record fuel prices," said easyJet Chief Executive 
Andy Harrison.
Operating costs, excluding fuel, fell by around 10 percent during the second half, the carrier said.
Shares in easyJet, which will report preliminary results on Nov. 20, closed 4.4 percent higher at 571.5 pence 
(US$11.67, €8.25) on the London Stock Exchange.
Earlier this week, Europe's largest low-cost carrier Ryanair Holdings PLC posted a 23 percent increase in 
passenger traffic in September.
Load-Date: October 6, 2007
End of Document
Nasdaq 100 lifted by Research in Motion , Sears Holdings , Ryanair Holdings
Nasdaq 100 lifted by Research in Motion, Sears Holdings, Ryanair Holdings
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 5, 2007 Friday 4:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 276 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Labor Department's employment report lifted the Nasdaq 100 index in midday trading Friday, with Research In 
Motion Ltd. rising on a strong second-quarter report and third-quarter outlook.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, 
jumped 36.65 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2142.21 by midday. The broader Nasdaq composite rose 40.99 points, or 
1.5 percent, to 2,774.56.
The broader markets rose on the government's job report that said employers added 110,000 jobs in September.
Shares of Research in Motion, which makes the BlackBerry line of smart phones, rose $11.76, or 11.7 percent, to 
$112.30. Earlier, shares hit a 52-week high of $112.84, topping a previous peak of $110.98.
On Thursday, the Canadian company said its profit and revenue more than doubled in the second quarter, and 
forecast third-quarter profit and sales above analyst expectations.
Sears Holdings Corp. shares rose $8.31, or 5.9 percent, to $149.71. Activist investor William Ackman has 
reportedly taken a 3.5 percent stake in Sears with a possible eye toward prompting changes at the department 
store retailer.
Irish airline operator Ryanair Holdings PLC gained $1.70, or 4 percent, to $44.73. Another budget carrier in Europe, 
easyJet PLC, said Friday it expected full-year profit growth to come in toward the top end of forecasts.
On the losing side, Tellabs Inc. lost 37 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $9.21. The telecommunications equipment maker 
warned it anticipates missing Wall Street estimates in its third quarter.
SanDisk Corp. lost $1.36, or 2.6 percent, to $51.83.
Patterson-UTI Energy Inc. shed 36 cents to $22.05.
Load-Date: October 6, 2007
Nasdaq 100 lifted by Research in Motion , Sears Holdings , Ryanair Holdings
End of Document
Midday Leaders & Laggards : Nasdaq 100
Midday Leaders & Laggards: Nasdaq 100
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 5, 2007 Friday 4:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 276 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Labor Department's employment report lifted the Nasdaq 100 index in midday trading Friday, with Research In 
Motion Ltd. rising on a strong second-quarter report and third-quarter outlook.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, 
jumped 36.65 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2142.21 by midday. The broader Nasdaq composite rose 40.99 points, or 
1.5 percent, to 2,774.56.
The broader markets rose on the government's job report that said employers added 110,000 jobs in September.
Shares of Research in Motion, which makes the BlackBerry line of smart phones, rose $11.76, or 11.7 percent, to 
$112.30. Earlier, shares hit a 52-week high of $112.84, topping a previous peak of $110.98.
On Thursday, the Canadian company said its profit and revenue more than doubled in the second quarter, and 
forecast third-quarter profit and sales above analyst expectations.
Sears Holdings Corp. shares rose $8.31, or 5.9 percent, to $149.71. Activist investor William Ackman has 
reportedly taken a 3.5 percent stake in Sears with a possible eye toward prompting changes at the department 
store retailer.
Irish airline operator Ryanair Holdings PLC gained $1.70, or 4 percent, to $44.73. Another budget carrier in Europe, 
easyJet PLC, said Friday it expected full-year profit growth to come in toward the top end of forecasts.
On the losing side, Tellabs Inc. lost 37 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $9.21. The telecommunications equipment maker 
warned it anticipates missing Wall Street estimates in its third quarter.
SanDisk Corp. lost $1.36, or 2.6 percent, to $51.83.
Patterson-UTI Energy Inc. shed 36 cents to $22.05.
Load-Date: October 6, 2007
Midday Leaders & Laggards : Nasdaq 100
End of Document
Low-cost airline easyJet expects profits to hit top end of forecasts
Low-cost airline easyJet expects profits to hit top end of forecasts
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 5, 2007 Friday 4:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 215 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Europe's second-largest budget carrier, easyJet PLC, said Friday it expects full-year profit growth to come in toward 
the top end of forecasts, boosted by stronger passenger demand and cost cutting.
The carrier also said in a statement that its overall pretax profit will likely beat earlier predictions of 40 percent to 50 
percent growth because of a one-time gain.
Passenger numbers rose by 14.2 percent to 3.4 million in September compared with a year earlier, easyJet said. 
The carrier will also record an 11 million pound ($22 million) refund from an investment in The Airline Group Ltd., a 
consortium of seven British airlines with a stake in Britain's air-traffic service provider.
"We are pleased with our performance over the last financial year, having achieved significant improvement in 
margins despite the doubling of air passenger duty in the U.K. and record fuel prices," said easyJet Chief Executive 
Andy Harrison.
Operating costs, excluding fuel, fell by around 10 percent during the second half, the carrier said.
Shares in easyJet, which will report preliminary results on Nov. 20, closed 4.4 percent higher at 571.5 pence 
($11.67) in London.
Earlier this week, Europe's largest low-cost carrier Ryanair Holdings PLC posted a 23 percent increase in 
passenger traffic in September.
Load-Date: October 6, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ closes week up 67 points
ISEQ closes week up 67 points
Business World (Digest) 
October 5, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 304 words
Highlight: Shares in the Dublin market ended the week marginally up.
Body
Shares in the Dublin market ended the week significantly up.
This evening, the ISEQ index closed up 67.01 points at 8478.48.
Shares at drinks group C and C were up 1c to 5.81. The company is to report interim results to end-August on 
October 10th.
 The group recently reported that it expects a circa 35pc fall in continuing operating profit on the prior-year period. 
Revenue is expected to be flat, and operating margin is anticipated to decline by nine percentage points, according 
to Davy Research. Davy said that it expects management to provide operating profit guidance range for the second 
half and to give some insight into current trading. It said it expects current full-year forecast for continuing operating 
profit (E138m) to decline by 30pc. C and C is expected to provide some insight into Magners' international test 
markets. Management is also likely to discuss how Magners has been received in Munich and Barcelona and the 
opportunities to develop these markets and give further information on Magners Great Britain strategy. In the 
financial sector, Bank of Ireland was down 6c to 13.46 and AIB climbed 5c to 18.31. Anglo Irish Bank fell 17c to 
14.05 and Irish Life and Permanent slumped 9c to 17.80. Construction shares were mixed. CRH rose 46c to 30.80 
and Kingspan climbed 30c at 17.10. McInerney slipped 3c to 1.69 and Grafton was down 23c to 8.55. Elsewhere, 
bookmaker Paddy Power was down 14c to 24.45 and no-frills airline Ryanair slipped 6c to 5.48. Other notable 
movers include Kerry Group, up 5c to 21.00; Elan, down 6c to 15.58; FBD down 25c to 24.00. Also, shares at DCC 
dropped 34c to 20.98, Goodbody Research repeated its buy recommendation saying the recent turbulence in the 
equity markets and concerns over the pending disposal of the holding in Manor Park, has overshadowed DCC's 
share price. 
Load-Date: October 9, 2007
ISEQ closes week up 67 points
End of Document
Spanish investors home in on bid for Spanair
Spanish investors home in on bid for Spanair
Financial Times (London, England)
October 5, 2007 Friday
Asia Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES - EUROPE; Pg. 19
Length: 347 words
Byline: By MARK MULLIGAN
Body
A group of Spanish investors yesterday moved closer to a formal bid for Spanair, the loss-making subsidiary of SAS 
put up for sale by the Scandinavian airline group in June as part of a series of divestments.
Gonzalo Pascual, one of Spanair's founders, yesterday resigned as chairman of the carrier "with the objective of 
launching an offer for 100 per cent of the airline", Spanair said.
Another founding investor, Gerardo Diaz, chief executive, also stepped down to avoid conflicts of interests as the 
pair negotiate with SAS.
The duo are part of an investment vehicle that controls Grupo Marsans, the Spanish travel group whose portfolio of 
companies includes Aerolineas Argentinas, the Argentine flagcarrier, and Air Comet.
Yesterday's resignations come a week after Marsans agreed the purchase of SAS's 55 per cent stake in Newco, 
the baggage handling joint venture. SAS is also looking to offload its 20 per cent in BMI, the UK carrier, and 37.5 
per cent stake in Air Greenland to concentrate on its core transcontinental and northern European routes.
Spanair, which reported a first-quarter loss of Euros 41m (Dollars 58m) this year, has been struggling in Spain's 
competitive domestic market, where aggressive low-cost carriers such as Ryanair and EasyJet have opened new 
operating bases and domestic routes.
Iberia, the flag-carrier subject to a possible takeover bid, has also entered the low-cost battle by part-financing a 
new no-frills carrier.
This surge in activity, coupled with soaring fuel costs and management wrangles, has battered Vueling, a Spanish 
start-up that began operations three years ago. It recently announced first-half losses of Euros 33.7m, against 
Euros 6.5m at the same stage last year. Its shares have been in freefall since June, when Apax Partners, the 
private equity group, sold its 20 per cent stake.
Against this difficult background, Marsans will be seeking cost-saving synergies between Spanair and its other 
airlines and tour operators if it wins control of the carrier.
Spanish investors home in on bid for Spanair
According to some reports, a deal could be announced by the end of this month.
Load-Date: October 4, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down 95pts as banks rebound
ISEQ down 95pts as banks rebound
Business World (Digest) 
October 5, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 188 words
Highlight: Shares in the Dublin market were down this morning as banks rebounded.
Body
Shares in the Dublin market were down this morning as banks rebounded from gains made during the week. 
At 11.20am, the ISEQ index was down 95.32 points at 8316.15. 
In the financial sector, Bank of Ireland down 27c to 13.25 and AIB slipped 36c to 17.90. Anglo Irish Bank fell 22c to 
14.00 and Irish Life and Permanent slumped 30c to 17.59. 
 Construction shares were mixed in morning trading. CRH rose 10c to 30.44 and Kingspan remained flat at 17.00. 
McInerney was up 3c to 1.75 and Grafton slipped 3c to 8.75. Elsewhere, bookmaker Paddy Power was down 9c to 
24.50 and no-frills airline Ryanair was up 8c to 5.50. Other notable movers include Kerry Group, up 23c to 21.18; 
Elan, down 20c to 15.44; FBD down 20c to 24.05. Meanwhile, shares at Aer Lingus were up 4c to 2.39 after it 
reported load increases of 0.5pc on short haul to 80.5pc on a 9.8pc capacity increase and a decline of 4.9 points on 
long haul, driven by a 26.3pc capacity increase to 67.9pc. Stephen Furlong at Davy Research said, "we are 
encouraged by the September short-haul statistics, noting that this is the third month in a row of increasing short- 
haul loads." 
Load-Date: October 9, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ closes slightly up, lifted by Abbey
ISEQ closes slightly up, lifted by Abbey
Business World (Digest) 
October 4, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 235 words
Highlight: Shares in the Dublin market closed marginally up today
Body
Shares in the Dublin market closed marginally up today lifted by banking shares and builder Abbey.
The ISEQ index closed up 43.72 points at 8411.47.
In the financial sector, Bank of Ireland rose 32c to 13.80 and AIB climbed 33c to 18.60. Anglo Irish Bank was up 
29c to 14.41 and Irish Life and Permanent slipped 5c to 17.95. 
 There was good news for Irish Life and Permanent as it said that it will only be marginally affected by the credit 
crisis and reiterated a forecast for full-year earnings growth of at least 20pc. "Given our maturity and re-pricing 
profiles on both assets and liabilities, we expect the 2007 result to be only modestly impacted by wholesale pricing 
pressures," said chief executive Denis Casey at a banking conference in London. Construction shares were mixed. 
CRH rose 24c to 30.30 and Kingspan was down 16c to 16.90. McInerney was up 15c to 1.70 and Grafton climbed 
6c to 8.80. Elsewhere, bookmaker Paddy Power was down 35c to 24.55 and no-frills airline Ryanair was up 3c to 
5.36. Other notable movers include DCC, down 28c to 21.22; Independent News and Media down 10c to 2.75 
Smurfit Kappa was down 51c to 15.69 despite having told analysts that the price momentum it experienced in the 
first 7 months of this year looks like carrying on at least to the end of 2007. It also said recent imports of Chinese 
cardboard into Europe is expected to be short lived, according to Davy Research. 
Load-Date: October 8, 2007
End of Document
Zoom aims high with low-fare flight plan
Zoom aims high with low-fare flight plan
Financial Times (London, England)
October 4, 2007 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES - UK; Pg. 22
Length: 713 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE
Body
Zoom Airlines has largely been flying under the radar screen of the big transatlantic carriers for the past couple of 
months, since it began its attempt to bring its own brand of low fares to the crowded London-New York market.
The latest upstart to seek to carve out a living in this lucrative but highly competitive route launched its initial once-
a-day service between London Gatwick and New York JFK in June with relatively little fanfare, but it has big 
ambitions.
Other recent transatlantic start-up carriers have all targeted the premium business class market, with Eos Airlines 
and Maxjet Airways of the US and Silverjet of the UK launching upmarket, all-business class services.
Zoom is operating at the other end of the range in the bargain basement largely for leisure travellers. It is seeking to 
undercut the lowest economy fares offered by the big incumbent airlines led by British Airways and Virgin Atlantic 
from the UK, and American Airlines, United Airlines and Continental of the US.
The challenge to the established long-haul carriers from Zoom as a budget carrier is the first since Freddie Laker 
launched his ill-fated Skytrain from Gatwick in the late 1970s.
Many potential start-ups have looked at taking the low-cost airline business model into long-haul markets, but have 
usually shied away because of the fierce competition from the big network carriers.
Airlines such as BA, Virgin and American make the lion's share of their long-haul profits from business class 
passengers, which allows them to subsidise their lowest economy fares and fill the back of their aircraft.
Zoom is intent on going another route, however, towards being what John Boyle, one of its founders, describes as 
"the EasyJet of the North Atlantic".
Mr Boyle believes that he can survive in the long-haul market by stripping away all the special terms and conditions 
that the network airlines impose on passengers for being able to avail themselves of the cheapest economy fares, 
just as the no- frills operators led by Ryanair and EasyJet have done in short-haul European markets.
Zoom aims high with low-fare flight plan
Most importantly, Zoom has removed the need for a Saturday night stay in order to qualify for the cheap fares and it 
is also selling one-way journeys rather than insisting on a return fare with the aim of allowing travellers to fly from 
London into one city in North America and to return from another without being heavily penalised in the price.
Monitoring the pricing practices of his rivals, Mr Boyle believes that the big airlines are in lock-step in the prices they 
charge, with little variation despite the protestations about fierce competition.
He claims that Zoom fares offer savings of between 23 per cent and 76 per cent against the average of the legacy 
carriers, depending on whether travellers are staying through a Saturday night.
The airline has been developed by Mr Boyle and his brother Hugh.
The brothers, Scottish entrepreneurs and veterans of the UK travel sector, launched Zoom Airlines as a Canadian 
carrier based in Ottawa in 2002, and have focused to date largely on developing leisure routes between the UK and 
Canada.
Zoom is majority owned by Hugh Boyle with 60 per cent while his brother holds a significant minority stake. Bank of 
Scotland's private equity division last year bought a 7.5 per cent share in the group for Pounds 5.7m and a small 
stake is also held by some staff.
While Zoom Airlines Inc is registered in Ottawa as a Canadian carrier and is regulated by the Canadian aviation 
authorities, a subsidiary company, Zoom Airlines Ltd, was established at Gatwick as a UK-regulated company to 
launch the UK-US routes.
International air traffic rights are closely tied to the nationality of airlines under the terms of bilateral air services 
treaties. As majority shareholder, Hugh Boyle is able to own both a UK and a Canadian airline by dint of holding 
dual UK and Canadian passports.
The brothers made their original fortune in the UK travel sector, most notably selling their Direct Holidays business 
to Airtours in 1997 for Pounds 80m.
Like Silverjet and Maxjet, the Zoom founders are aiming to raise outside equity to finance their future expansion and 
are working with Panmure Gordon as financial adviser for a possible listing on the Aim market as one strategic 
option.
Load-Date: October 3, 2007
End of Document
Tony Ryan, pioneer of no-frills airlines in Europe, dies at 71
Tony Ryan, pioneer of no-frills airlines in Europe, dies at 71
Financial Times (London, England)
October 4, 2007 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES - UK AND IRELAND; Pg. 21
Length: 609 words
Byline: By JOHN MURRAY BROWN
Body
Tony Ryan, who, as founder of Ryanair, was a pioneer of the European low-cost airline industry, died yesterday 
after a long illness at the age of 71.
The son of a train driver, he became one of the giants of Irish business and was a role model who inspired a 
generation of younger business leaders. Among them were Denis O'Brien, the telecoms entrepreneur, Michael 
O'Leary, Ryanair chief executive and Domhnal Slattery, founder of Jetbird, all of whom at one stage worked for him.
His first job on leaving school was working at a sugar factory in Thurles, County Tipperary, determining the grades 
of sweetness of the sugar beat.
But in 1954 he joined Aer Lingus in Shannon, starting out as a "red cap" in baggage handling at the former state-
owned airline.
He later started and ran his own aircraft leasing company, Guinness Peat Aviation. Today, more than 20 aircraft 
leasing companies based in Shannon, in south- west Ireland, owe their existence to Mr Ryan's efforts. Many are run 
by his former executives.
But it was his decision to launch a low-cost airline that he will be remembered for, inspired by what he saw at 
Southwest Airlines in the US. It is an underdog role that Mr O'Leary still tries to project even though the airline is 
now one of the largest companies in the sector.
Ryanair was founded in 1985 and came to define the fast-expanding European market for no-frills short-haul 
international travel.
There was nothing no-frills about Mr Ryan's own lifestyle. He owned properties across the globe, art collections and 
a string of racehorse studs. He also restored one of Ireland's finest protestant ascendancy mansions at Lyons in 
County Kildare.
But it was aircraft finance where he first made his name. In the 1970s, leasing involved loaning the aircraft and the 
crew to other airlines, in what he called "wet leasing". It was while running this division, spending most of his time in 
Tony Ryan, pioneer of no-frills airlines in Europe, dies at 71
Thailand overseeing the loan of Aer Lingus aircraft to Air Siam, that he dreamt up the idea of a stand-alone aircraft 
leasing company.
At one point, GPA, which Mr Ryan ran and had a 10 per cent stake in, was valued at Euros 4bn and counted such 
business and political luminaries on its board as Sir John Harvey-Jones, the former ICI boss, Lord Lawson, the 
former British chancellor and Garret Fitzgerald, the former Irish Taoiseach or prime minister.
In recent years, Mr Ryan has refused to discuss the demise of GPA, but it collapsed after a botched flotation 
attempt in 1992, eventually being acquired by GE Capital.
Ryanair was an equally daunting challenge and at the outset in 1991 he was advised to shut it down. It had started 
with one small aircraft flying to the UK from Waterford in Ireland's south-east.
The stock market flotation in 1997 saw the family - himself and his three sons Cathal, Declan and Shane - make up 
to IPounds 40m. The company has multiplied in value since and the family has profited hugely.
He used that money to invest in airline ventures in China and Latin America. Last year, he provided Euros 10m for a 
business school in Dublin - the Tony Ryan Academy for Entrepreneurship.
Mr O'Leary described him as "one of the greatest Irishmen of the 20th century".
"It was a privilege to work for him and to learn from him. I will miss his guidance, encouragement and friendship," he 
said.
Bertie Ahern, the Irish prime minister, said Mr Ryan's contribution to aviation was "immense".
"Through Guinness Peat Aviation he placed Ireland centre-stage in the global aviation business," he added. "His 
legacy in this respect is clearly evident today as Ireland remains one of the key global centres for the international 
aircraft leasing business."
Load-Date: October 3, 2007
End of Document
Thursday Papers: Subprime crisis claims more victims - other news
Thursday Papers: Subprime crisis claims more victims - other news
Citywire
October 4, 2007 Thursday 6:58 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 312 words
Body
Subprime crisis claims more victims and Greenspan warns on the odds of a US recession.
* Dow declines 79 points and Nasdaq loses 18 points * US ISM September services index down 54.8 vs 54.5 
expected * US crude stocks up an unexpected 1.2 million barrels to 321.8 million in September 28 week
* Credit Suisse to cut further 170 jobs in investment banking * Bear Stearns to combine mortgage origination 
business and lays off 310 workers * Deutsche Bank the latest investment bank to announce losses worth billions of 
dollars as a result of the credit turmoil * Osman Semerci, head of fixed income trading at Merrill Lynch leaves 
company after a sharp downturn in trading
* Alan Greenspan warns that the odds of a recession in the US are between a third and a half because of the credit 
crisis * US facing subprime traffic jam, according to experts * British Retail Consortium calls for interest rate cut
* Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors predicts a 5% fall in commercial property prices this year and next * BAA 
told to fix Heathrow hassle or face fresh penalties * France's stock market regulator raises the alarm over possible 
insider trading at EADS * European Commission drops plans to give all shareholders an equal say in the running of 
companies * Cazenove cuts forecasts on BP's third quarter
* Cadbury to cut 700 jobs as Keynsham site closes * Last-ditch attempt to avert the longest postal strike for 11 
years * ARM Holdings unveils new processor that will power the next generation of mobile devices * David 
Cameron challenges Gordon Brown to call an early election
* British Airways traffic falls 0.7% in September; load factor 78.3% vs 79.1% * Tests found negative on new foot & 
mouth case in Sussex * Ryanair founder Tony Ryan dies aged 71 * FT.com named 'best editorial team' in the 
consumer website category at the Association of Online Publishing Awards.
Load-Date: October 9, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ marginally up on banking shares
ISEQ marginally up on banking shares
Business World (Digest) 
October 4, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 176 words
Highlight: Shares in the Dublin market were marginally up at midday.
Body
Shares in the Dublin market were marginally up at midday with banking shares performing well. 
At 11.40 am, the ISEQ index was up 64.57 points at 8432.32.
In the financial sector, Bank of Ireland rose 27c to 13.75 and AIB climbed 20c to 18.57. Anglo Irish Bank was up 
20c to 14.32 and Irish Life and Permanent remained flat at 18.00. 
 Construction shares were mixed. CRH slipped 6c to 30.00 and Kingspan was down 1c to 17.05. McInerney 
dropped 1c to 1.54 and Grafton was up 5c to 8.79. Elsewhere, bookmaker Paddy Power was down 5c to 24.85 and 
no-frills airline Ryanair was up 2c to 5.35. Other notable movers include Smurfit Kappa, down 22c to 15.98; Elan, 
down 13c to 15.14; Independent News and Media down 10c to 2.75 Meanwhile, shares at United Drug rose 20c to 
3.50 after it this morning issued a trading update after FY07 year end (September), in which it noted strong revenue 
growth in all four divisions. The company is expecting double digit growth in operating profit and earnings, which 
"should be ahead of current consensus market expectations". . 
Load-Date: October 8, 2007
End of Document
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71 after long illness
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71 after long illness
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 3, 2007 Wednesday 7:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 459 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Tony Ryan, who founded Europe's leading budget airline Ryanair, died Wednesday after a long illness, the airline 
and his family said. He was 71.
Ryan founded Ryanair in 1985 with a single 15-seat plane. By the time he floated the company on the Irish and 
British stock exchanges, Ryanair Holdings PLC was already expanding across the European continent with eye-
popping fares, new routes and trademark boastful marketing. Today it operates 557 routes in 26 countries and 
plans to carry more than 50 million people this year.
The Ryan family said in a statement it was "proud of Tony's many achievements, of his spirit of entrepreneurship 
which created enterprise and opportunity for many people in this country and abroad."
Ryanair shattered an air market in Ireland dominated by state flag carriers Aer Lingus and British Airways. Its 1990s 
rise foreshadowed a 21st century market where Ryanair sets the ruthless standard and state-owned carriers are 
dead or dying.
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary, a protege of Ryan, said he had left an astonishing legacy.
"It was a privilege to work for him and to learn from him," O'Leary said. "I will miss his guidance, encouragement 
and friendship. We are all determined that Ryanair will continue to carry his name with pride and distinction."
Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said Ryanair's "rise to become one of the leading carriers in Europe is one of the 
greatest Irish economic success stories and will be rightly regarded as perhaps his greatest legacy."
Irish billionaire businessman Sir Anthony O'Reilly, who heads Independent News & Media PLC, called Ryan "a true 
pioneer."
"He changed the skies of Europe, not just for the Irish people, but indeed for all Europeans," O'Reilly said.
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71 after long illness
Ryan, the son of a train driver, was born in Thurles, County Tipperary, in 1936. His first job was as a sales clerk at 
Aer Lingus, Ireland's state-owned airline which saw its monopoly status shattered by the launch and rapid ascent of 
Ryanair.
His initial fortune came from Guinness Peat Aviation, a commercial aircraft sales and leasing company he set up in 
conjunction with Aer Lingus in 1975. The company's value plummeted after a failed 1992 bid to list it on the Irish 
Stock Exchange, but he sold the business for an estimated 55 million euros ($77 million) personal profit eight years 
later.
He died with a personal fortune estimated in excess of 800 million euros ($1.1 billion) and was on seventh place on 
the 2007 Sunday Times list of Ireland's richest people. He remained a major Ryanair stockholder, as well as a 
minority owner of Singapore-based Tiger Airways.
He lived as a tax exile in Monte Carlo but maintained a massive country estate and horse stud farm in Tipperary.
Funeral arrangements were not announced.
Load-Date: October 4, 2007
End of Document
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71 after long illness
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71 after long illness
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 3, 2007 Wednesday 6:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: INTERNATIONAL NEWS
Length: 291 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Tony Ryan, the founder of budget airline Ryanair Holdings PLC, died Wednesday after a long illness, the airline 
said. He was 71.
Ryan founded Ryanair in 1986 with just one 15-seat plane. A year later it began flights between Dublin and London, 
kick-starting rapid growth that was to turn it into Europe's biggest low-cost airline. It is expected to carry some 52 
million passengers this year.
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary, a protege of Ryan, said that he had left an astonishing legacy.
"It was a privilege to work for him and to learn from him," O'Leary said in a statement. "I will miss his guidance, 
encouragement and friendship. We are all determined that Ryanair will continue to carry his name with pride and 
distinction."
Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said he was saddened to hear of Ryan's death, calling his airline one of Ireland's 
greatest business triumphs.
"The establishment of Ryanair and its subsequent rise to become one of the leading carriers in Europe is one of the 
greatest Irish economic success stories and will be rightly regarded as perhaps his greatest legacy," Ahern said.
Irish billionaire businessman Sir Anthony O'Reilly, who heads Independent News & Media PLC, called Ryan "a true 
pioneer."
"He changed the skies of Europe, not just for the Irish people, but indeed for all Europeans. That will be his epitaph. 
It could not be more appropriate," O'Reilly said in a statement.
Born in Thurles, County Tipperary in 1936, Ryan was the son of a train driver.
His initial fortune came from Guinness Peat Aviation, the commercial aircraft sales and leasing company he set up 
in 1975. He sold that company in 2000 after the cancellation of its planned stock market listing in 1992 led to a 
dramatic collapse in its value.
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71 after long illness
Load-Date: October 4, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus asks European Commission to force rival Ryanair to reduce its shareholding
Aer Lingus asks European Commission to force rival Ryanair to reduce its 
shareholding
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 3, 2007 Wednesday 11:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 370 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Irish airline Aer Lingus confirmed Wednesday it has formally asked the European Commission to order Ryanair to 
reduce its holding because of EU competition law.
It is the latest move in a yearlong struggle between Ireland's two major airlines, pitting the formerly state-owned Aer 
Lingus against Europe's no-frills leader. Dublin-based Ryanair has become Aer Lingus' top shareholder in pursuit of 
an eventual takeover of the airline, which was privatized in September 2006.
European Commission spokesman Jonathan Todd said EU competition authorities received the written appeal two 
weeks ago and would respond by Oct. 17. Aer Lingus confirmed its request in a brief statement.
The EU already has signaled it cannot force Ryanair to lower its shareholding, in a June ruling that rejected 
Ryanair's takeover proposals as likely to produce a monopoly in Irish short-haul travel.
Analysts say Ryanair's bid remains a long shot because other chief shareholders, particularly the Irish government 
and employee-controlled trusts, oppose it.
But since the EU rebuff, Ryanair has continued to build its stake, from 25.2 percent to 29.44 percent, while the Aer 
Lingus share price has fallen far below Ryanair's October 2006 offer of €2.80 (US$3.95) a share. The Irish 
government has kept a 25-percent stake, while current or former Aer Lingus employees hold about 20 percent.
Ryanair argues that its No. 1 shareholder position has given it no power over Aer Lingus policies. It cites its recent 
demands twice rejected by Aer Lingus to convene an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders as evidence.
"Given that the board of Aer Lingus has recently broken Irish company law by twice rejecting Ryanair's request for 
an EGM, it would be impossible for Aer Lingus to claim that we have any influence or control over Aer Lingus," 
Ryanair said in a statement.
Aer Lingus asks European Commission to force rival Ryanair to reduce its shareholding
Ryanair says it wants shareholders to vote against an Aer Lingus plan to shift Heathrow services from Shannon 
Airport in western Ireland to the British territory of Northern Ireland. Aer Lingus says Ryanair is scheming, as part of 
its objection, to stifle direct competition on Dublin-Gatwick routes, and is under no obligation to call an EGM at the 
behest of its major competitor.
Load-Date: October 4, 2007
End of Document
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 3, 2007 Wednesday 7:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: INTERNATIONAL NEWS
Length: 436 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Tony Ryan, who founded leading European budget airline Ryanair, died Wednesday after a long illness, the airline 
and his family said. He was 71.
Ryan founded Ryanair in 1985 with a single 15-seat plane. By the time he floated the company on the Irish and 
British stock exchanges, Ryanair Holdings PLC was already expanding across the European continent with eye-
popping fares, new routes and trademark boastful marketing.
Today, it operates 557 routes in 26 countries and plans to carry more than 50 million people this year.
The Ryan family said in a statement it was "proud of Tony's many achievements, of his spirit of entrepreneurship 
which created enterprise and opportunity for many people in this country and abroad."
Ryanair shattered an air market in Ireland dominated by state flag carriers Aer Lingus and British Airways. Its 1990s 
rise foreshadowed a 21st century market in which Ryanair sets ruthless standards and state-owned carriers are 
dead or dying.
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary, a Ryan protege, said he had left an astonishing legacy.
"It was a privilege to work for him and to learn from him," O'Leary said. "I will miss his guidance, encouragement 
and friendship. We are all determined that Ryanair will continue to carry his name with pride and distinction."
Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said Ryanair's "rise to become one of the leading carriers in Europe is one of the 
greatest Irish economic success stories and will be rightly regarded as perhaps his greatest legacy."
Irish billionaire businessman Sir Anthony O'Reilly, who heads Independent News & Media PLC, called Ryan "a true 
pioneer."
"He changed the skies of Europe, not just for the Irish people, but indeed for all Europeans," O'Reilly said.
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71
Ryan, the son of a train driver, was born in Thurles, County Tipperary, in 1936. His first job was as a sales clerk at 
Aer Lingus.
His initial fortune came from Guinness Peat Aviation, a commercial aircraft sales and leasing company he set up in 
conjunction with Aer Lingus in 1975. The company's value plummeted after a failed 1992 bid to list it on the Irish 
Stock Exchange, but he sold the business for an estimated €55 million (US$77 million) personal profit eight years 
later.
He died with a personal fortune estimated in excess of €800 million (US$1.1 billion) and was seventh on the 2007 
Sunday Times list of Ireland's richest people. He remained a major Ryanair stockholder, as well as a minority owner 
of Singapore-based Tiger Airways.
He lived as a tax exile in Monte Carlo but maintained a massive country estate and horse farm in Tipperary.
Funeral arrangements have not been announced.
Load-Date: October 4, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus asks European Commission to force rival Ryanair to reduce its shareholding
Aer Lingus asks European Commission to force rival Ryanair to reduce its 
shareholding
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 3, 2007 Wednesday 1:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 395 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Irish airline Aer Lingus confirmed Wednesday it has asked the European Commission to order Ryanair to reduce its 
nearly 30 percent stake in Aer Lingus, saying it violates laws meant to ensure competition.
It is the latest move in a yearlong struggle between Ireland's two major airlines, pitting the formerly state-owned Aer 
Lingus against no-frills carrier Ryanair.
Dublin-based Ryanair has become Aer Lingus' top shareholder in pursuit of an eventual takeover of the airline, 
which was privatized in September 2006.
European Commission spokesman Jonathan Todd said EU competition authorities received the written appeal two 
weeks ago and would respond by Oct. 17. Aer Lingus confirmed its request in a brief statement.
The EU already has signaled it cannot force Ryanair to lower its shareholding. It said in a June ruling that a Ryanair 
takeover of Aer Lingus would likely produce a monopoly in Irish short-haul travel, but suggested it doesn't have 
authority to require a shareholder to lower its stake in a rival company.
Analysts say Ryanair's bid remains a long shot because other chief shareholders, particularly the Irish government 
and employee-controlled trusts, oppose it.
But since the EU ruling, Ryanair has continued to build its stake to 29.44 percent from 25.2 percent while the Aer 
Lingus share price has fallen far below Ryanair's October 2006 offer of 2.80 euros ($3.95) a share.
The Irish government has kept a 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus, while current or former Aer Lingus employees hold 
about 20 percent.
Ryanair argues that its position as Aer Lingus' biggest shareholder has given it no power over Aer Lingus policies. It 
cites its recent demands twice rejected by Aer Lingus to convene an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders.
Aer Lingus asks European Commission to force rival Ryanair to reduce its shareholding
"Given that the board of Aer Lingus has recently broken Irish company law by twice rejecting Ryanair's request for 
an EGM, it would be impossible for Aer Lingus to claim that we have any influence or control over Aer Lingus," 
Ryanair said in a statement.
Ryanair says it wants shareholders to vote against an Aer Lingus plan to shift Heathrow services from Shannon 
Airport in western Ireland to the British territory of Northern Ireland. Aer Lingus says Ryanair wants to stifle direct 
competition on Dublin-Gatwick routes, and is under no obligation to call a shareholder meeting at the behest of its 
major competitor.
Load-Date: October 4, 2007
End of Document
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71 after long illness
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71 after long illness
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 3, 2007 Wednesday 6:46 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 286 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Tony Ryan, the founder of Europe's biggest no-frills airline, Ryanair Holdings PLC, died Wednesday after a long 
illness, the airline said. He was 71.
Ryan founded Ryanair in 1986 with just one 15-seat plane. A year later it began flights between Dublin and London, 
kick-starting rapid growth has propelled it to an estimated 52 million passengers this year.
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary, a protege of Ryan, said that he had left an astonishing legacy.
"It was a privilege to work for him and to learn from him," O'Leary said in a statement. "I will miss his guidance, 
encouragement and friendship. We are all determined that Ryanair will continue to carry his name with pride and 
distinction."
Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said he was saddened to hear of Ryan's death, calling his airline one of Ireland's 
greatest business triumphs.
"The establishment of Ryanair and its subsequent rise to become one of the leading carriers in Europe is one of the 
greatest Irish economic success stories and will be rightly regarded as perhaps his greatest legacy," Ahern said.
Irish billionaire businessman Sir Anthony O'Reilly, who heads Independent News & Media PLC, called Ryan "a true 
pioneer."
"He changed the skies of Europe, not just for the Irish people, but indeed for all Europeans. That will be his epitaph. 
It could not be more appropriate," O'Reilly said in a statement.
Born in Thurles, County Tipperary in 1936, Ryan was the son of a train driver.
His initial fortune came from Guinness Peat Aviation, the commercial aircraft sales and leasing company he set up 
in 1975. He sold that company in 2000 after the cancellation of its planned stock market listing in 1992 led to a 
dramatic collapse in its value.
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71 after long illness
Load-Date: October 4, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ continues revival, closes up 122pts
ISEQ continues revival, closes up 122pts
Business World (Digest) 
October 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 261 words
Highlight: Shares on the Dublin market continued their revival today.
Body
Shares on the Dublin market continued their revival today lead by banking and construction sector. 
The ISEQ index of Irish shares closed up 122.68 points at 8367.75.
The strong moves in the Irish banks have in the last while have been a surprise to analysts, according to Eamonn 
Hughes at Goodbody Stockbrokers.
 "We have to admit that the strong moves in the Irish banks in the last while have surprised us, given their 
traditional "retail" banking status," he said. In the financial sector, Bank of Ireland fell 8c to 13.49 and AIB climbed 
38c to 18.30. Anglo Irish Bank was up 20c to 14.15 and Irish Life and Permanent increased 28c to 17.78. Building 
shares were also strong, CRH rose 48c to 29.63 and Kingspan climbed 35c to 16.97. McInerney was up 11c to 1.52 
and Grafton was up 27c to 8.67. Shares at Dragon Oil were up 14c to 3.70. Caren Crowley, analyst at Davy 
Research believes the sharp rise in Dragon's share price is "well-deserved". "Operationally, the company has put in 
an outstanding performance over the past 12 months. Production in the first half of 2007 was up 52pc year-on-year, 
and current production of some 39,600 bopd means that management should comfortably exceed its own target of 
40,000 bopd before time," she said. Elsewhere, bookmaker Paddy Power climbed 36c to 24.85 and no-frills airline 
Ryanair was up 10c to 5.30 after it said that it carried 4.35 million passengers in September, up 23pc from 
September last year. Other notable movers include FBD, up 50c to 23.50; Dragon, up 14c to 3.70; Independent 
News and Media up 7c to 2.85. 
Load-Date: October 5, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair said founder Tony Ryan has died
Ryanair said founder Tony Ryan has died
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
October 3, 2007 Wednesday 6:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 76 words
Body
Ryanair said its founder and non-executive director Dr Tony Ryan died this afternoon after a long illness.
Ryanair's Chief Executive, Michael O'Leary said: 'Tony Ryan was one of the greatest Irishmen of the 20th Century. 
His many achievements in business, education, sport, the arts and heritage preservation leave an astonishing 
legacy to an extraordinary man... We are all determined that Ryanair will continue to carry his name with pride and 
distinction'.
Load-Date: October 3, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair carries 23 pct more passengers in Sept 07 than in Sept 06
Ryanair carries 23 pct more passengers in Sept 07 than in Sept 06
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
October 3, 2007 Wednesday 10:16 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 78 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC said it carried 4.35 mln passengers in September, up 23 pct from September last year when 
it carried 3.54 mln passengers.
Load factor, which represents the number of passengers as a proportion of the number of seats available, was 85 
pct, 1 pct down from the 86 pct it recorded in September 2006.
The low-fares airline carried 46.92 mln passengers for the year ending September 30, while its annual load factor 
over the same period came in at 82 pct.
Load-Date: October 3, 2007
End of Document
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71 after long illness
Founder of budget airline Ryanair Tony Ryan dies at age 71 after long illness
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 3, 2007 Wednesday 5:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 178 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Tony Ryan, the founder of budget airline Ryanair Holdings PLC, died Wednesday after a long illness, the airline 
said. He was 71.
Ryan founded Ryanair in 1986 with just one 15-seat plane. A year later it began flights between Dublin and London, 
kick-starting rapid growth that was to turn it into Europe's biggest low-cost airline it is expected to carry some 52 
million passengers this year.
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary, a protege of Ryan, said that he had left an astonishing legacy.
"It was a privilege to work for him and to learn from him," O'Leary said in a statement. "I will miss his guidance, 
encouragement and friendship. We are all determined that Ryanair will continue to carry his name with pride and 
distinction."
Born in Thurles, County Tipperary in 1936, Ryan was the son of a train driver.
His initial fortune came from Guinness Peat Aviation, the commercial aircraft sales and leasing company he set up 
in 1975. He sold that company in 2000 after the cancellation of its planned stock market listing in 1992 led to a 
dramatic collapse in its value.
Load-Date: October 4, 2007
End of Document
Mountains of potential
Mountains of potential
Financial Times (London, England)
October 3, 2007 Wednesday
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: FT REPORT - FRANCE - BUSINESS LOCATIONS; Pg. 6
Length: 756 words
Byline: By JILL JAMES
Body
The most potent symbol of Catalan identity is Mont Canigou, the mountain that sits between the French city of 
Prades and the Spanish border. For Catalans it is their sacred mountain and has been celebrated in poetry and 
literature.
Most of the region's 10m Catalan speakers live in Spain, in an area stretching from the Pyrenees to Valencia. A 
mere 120,000 Catalan speakers live on the French side of the border in the department of Pyrenees-Orientales in 
the Languedoc-Roussillon region.
On both sides of the border the Catalans delight in their separate identity - but on the French side it is more diluted. 
Identity apart, what both the French and Spanish Catalans have in common is a strong business ethic and acumen.
Today, most of the business set-ups in French Catalonia are small-scale. Wine, agriculture and tourism are the 
mainstays of the region and its business community is keen to encourage tourism ventures of all kinds. Campsites, 
chambres d'hotes and organic wine businesses are popular with incomers to the region who are looking for a 
lifestyle change. (Collioure is typical of the seaside towns of the region. Its most famous product - if you do not 
count anchovies - is art. And that can be directly attributed to the tourist industry.)
"We have a nice combination here of weather, transport and location," says Igor Knibiehly, director of the 
departmental tourist committee for Pyrenees- Orientales. "We have good links to the rest of the south of France and 
Spain - particularly Barcelona - and London. The combination of sea and mountains make this area a great location 
for congress business and we are hoping to build on that," he says.
"This is a perfect place for seminar and meetings and incentive businesses and we are widening that."
There are growing numbers of British and Irish incomers to the region as well as more Spanish Catalans. This is 
quite a turn-up for the books because when the euro was first introduced most French Catalans sought the cheaper 
prices available over the border. Now the traffic is in both directions.
Les Pyrenees-Orientales - the eastern Pyrenees - forms the southernmost tip of France and is bordered by the 
Aude to the north, the Mediterranean to the east, Spanish Catalonia to the south and the principality of Andorra to 
the west.
Mountains of potential
No-frills airline Ryanair operates a daily service to Perpignan Rivesaltes airport from London Stansted in Essex 
(flight time just over an hour). The airport is 5km north of Perpignan, by to the route nationale and just 20 minutes 
from the Mediterranean.
Other options include Carcassonne Airport in the Aude and also Gerona/ Barcelona Airports over the border (two-
and-a-half hours from Perpignan). Air France operates up to four flights a day to Perpignan.
French Catalans are quick to point out the improvements to road infrastructure in the past few years. Routes into 
the mountains are not as isolated as they used to be and it has opened more possibilities for tourist businesses. 
The service sector is another area expected to grow.
Social and economic integration between north and south Catalonia has moved on since the introduction of the 
euro but there is still an enormous imbalance in industry between the Spanish and French sides of the border.
On the Spanish side, the Catalan Investment Agency has been very successful.
The business climate that has been created is a big factor for companies choosing to locate but French Catalans 
are becoming more pro-active in offering business incentives.
The technology sector, particularly in the field of solar power, wind energy and renewable resources, has taken off. 
The Espace Enterprise Mediteranee Rivesaltes, a 250-acre enterprise park 2km from the Perpignan north highway 
exit, has strong potential for attracting businesses that contribute to the environment.
Thanks to its 2,700 hours of sunshine and 130 days of wind per year, Pyrenees- Orientales has the potential to 
develop solar, hydraulic, geothermal and wind energies. Apart from creating hundreds of jobs, the region hopes to 
be a source of eco-industrial elements for the region.
It is worth noting that a solar furnace was built in in Odeillo 36 years ago and is thought to be the world's largest. It 
consists of an enormous satellite that captures the sun's rays at its centre using 10,000 mirrors and reaching 
temperatures of 3,000Degrees C.
The region is encouraging development of this kind of technology. It is exploring the potential and actual uses of 
solar energy for domestic purposes, as well as energy crisis solutions.
Load-Date: October 2, 2007
End of Document
British Airways reports 6.6% rise in premium traffic in September
British Airways reports 6.6% rise in premium traffic in September
Citywire
October 3, 2007 Wednesday 3:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 239 words
Body
The number of British Airways passengers travelling on premium-priced tickets rose by 6.6% in September 
compared with the same month last year while economy-class passengers declined by 2%.
The result was a 0.7% overall decline in passenger traffic as measured in revenue passenger kilometres, the 
airline(BAY) said.
Analysts said the figures were good since the premium-priced tickets are key, and at 3:30pm the shares were up 
3.8% to 424.625p each.
Capacity grew by 0.3% from September 2006, the London-based airline said, while the load factor, or proportion of 
the seats occupied by passengers, declined by 0.8% to 78.3%.
On a six month basis, the trends were similar, with the number of BA passengers travelling on premium-priced 
tickets climbing 2.5% and non-premium passengers declining by 1.3%.
Cargo traffic, as measured in cargo tonne kilometres, fell by 0.4% in September and 1.5% in the six months ended 
in September, according to BA.
'Market conditions are broadly unchanged,' the airline said in a statement accompanying the figures.
'The outlook for long haul premium travel continues to be encouraging.'
* If BA is wondering where its economy passengers are going to, it might look no further than Ryanair (RYA). The 
Dublin-based budget airline said its passenger traffic rose by 23% in September to 4.35 million.
However, its load factor declined by 1 percentage point to 85%, Ryanair said.
Ryanair's shares rose 1% to 5.2725p.
Load-Date: October 6, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lin asks EU to cut Ryanair stake
Aer Lin asks EU to cut Ryanair stake
Business World (Digest) 
October 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 104 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus has asked the EU Commission to order Ryanair to cut its shareholding in the airline.
Body
Aer Lingus has asked the EU Commission to order Ryanair to cut its shareholding in the airline.
'I can confirm we have received a notice about failure to act and we will reply by October 17,' Commission 
spokesman Jonathan Todd told Reuters.
The Commission blocked Ryanair's takeover bid for Aer Lingus in June, citing a threat to competition at Dublin 
airport, especially on routes to London.
 The Irish no-frills airline has since bought a further 4pc to bring its total holding in its rival to over 29.4 per cent - 
close to the 29.9pc threshold which would trigger an automatic bid for the entire share capital of Aer Lingus. 
Load-Date: October 5, 2007
End of Document
Founder of Ryanair dies aged 72
Founder of Ryanair dies aged 72
Business World (Digest) 
October 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 40 words
Highlight: Dr Tony Ryan, founder of what is now Europe's largest no-frills airline, has died, aged 72.
Body
Dr Tony Ryan, founder of what is now Europe's largest no-frills airline, has died, aged 72.
Dr Ryan has ill for some time and died this afternoon at home in Co Kildare.
A Tipperary native he founded the Ryanair as well as Guinness Peat Aviation.
Load-Date: October 5, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair September traffic grows 23pc
Ryanair September traffic grows 23pc
Business World (Digest) 
October 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 77 words
Highlight: Ryanair said it carried 4.35 million passengers in September.
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair said it carried 4.35 million passengers in September, up 23pc from September last year 
when it carried 3.54 million passengers.
Load factor, which represents the number of passengers as a proportion of the number of seats available, was 
85pc, 1pc down from the 86pc it recorded in September 2006.
The airline carried 46.92 million passengers for the year ending September 30, while its annual load factor over the 
same period came in at 82pc.
Load-Date: October 5, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ up 91pts, boosted by construction
ISEQ up 91pts, boosted by construction
Business World (Digest) 
October 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 161 words
Highlight: Shares on the Dublin market were up significantly in morning trade.
Body
Shares on the Dublin market were up significantly in morning trade lifted by the construction sector and AIB
At 11.30am, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was up 91.29 points at 8336.36
In the financial sector, Bank of Ireland fell 7c to 13.50 and AIB climbed 32c to 18.24. Anglo Irish Bank was up 15c to 
14.10 and Irish Life and Permanent increased 10c to 17.60.
 Building shares were also strong, CRH rose 70c to 29.85 and Kingspan climbed 23c to 16.85. McInerney was up 
5c to 1.46 and Grafton was up 29c to 8.69. Elsewhere, bookmaker Paddy Power climbed 19c to 24.68 and no-frills 
airline Ryanair was up 13c to 5.33 after it said that it carried 4.35 million passengers in September, up 23pc from 
September last year. Other notable movers include DCC, up 31c to 21.96; Elan, up 5c to 15.20; Independent News 
and Media up 9c to 2.87. Shares in Aer Lingus climbed 3c to 2.38, the airline has asked the EU Commission to 
order Ryanair to cut its shareholding in the airline. 
Load-Date: October 5, 2007
End of Document
Telecom companies hold down European ADRs
Telecom companies hold down European ADRs
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 2, 2007 Tuesday 8:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 238 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
An index tracking European stocks trading on U.S. indexes declined on Tuesday, weighed down by shares of 
telecom companies.
The Bank of New York Europe ADR Index lost 1.37 points to 193.37. ADRs, or American Depositary Receipts, are 
securities designed to allow U.S. investors to trade shares of companies based overseas.
The Bank of New York European Telecom ADR Index fell 1.61 points to 98.74, led by Hungary's Magyar Telekom, 
which lost $1.29, or 4.5 percent, to $27.49.
Other telecoms declined, including Greece's Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA, which lost 48 cents, or 
2.5 percent, to $18.45. Russia's Mobile Telesystems OJSC declined $2.08, or 2.8 percent, to $71.99, after a Bear 
Stearns analyst downgraded the stock.
Also, Dutch telecom Royal KPN NV shed 39 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $17.13.
Among the gainers Tuesday, Irish airline operator Ryanair Holdings PLC, which recently held an investor day, rose 
42 cents to $43.11. In a client note, Avondale Partners analyst Bob McAdoo said the company carries more 
passengers to more cities in Europe than any other airline, and he expects the company to deliver "superior" 
earnings growth. Ryanair said it also planned to launch new routes across Europe this month.
And another Irish company, Allied Irish Banks PLC, gained $1.12, or 2.3 percent, to $50.94.
The Bank of New York Composite ADR Index shed 0.51 points to 194.74, while U.S. market indicators were mixed.
Load-Date: October 3, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus airline withholds 7.5 percent pay raises in showdown with unions
Aer Lingus airline withholds 7.5 percent pay raises in showdown with unions
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 2, 2007 Tuesday 1:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 445 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Irish airline Aer Lingus said Tuesday that it will withhold pay raises until union leaders accept a new company plan 
for cutting costs, a move that risks fueling labor unrest. Ireland's largest union called the move tantamount to 
blackmail and threatened to retaliate.
Aer Lingus Chief Executive Dermot Mannion said the airline would refuse to deliver a series of salary increases 
because unions were refusing to accept a plan reforming work practices, including overtime pay, designed to save 
the company 20 million euros ($28.5 million) annually.
"We're doing this because we've reached the end of the line. We're not trying to provoke anyone," said Mannion, 
whose airline is already facing a possible pilots strike over its plan to open a new hub beyond the reach of Irish 
unions in the British territory of Northern Ireland.
Jack O'Connor, president of Ireland's largest union, the Services, Industrial, Professional and Technical Union 
known as SIPTU, accused Aer Lingus of seeking to force unions to accept its cost-cutting plan without proper 
negotiations.
"If we're going to have a situation where a company part-owned by the state can make it up as they go along, and 
seek to blackmail the workers, then what's good for one is good for the other," O'Connor said.
He said Aer Lingus had no right to withhold the pay raises, which are part of a national wage-pact agreement called 
Towards 2016.
Such agreements have been in place in Ireland since 1987 to deter strikes, control salary inflation and make 
Ireland's economy more competitive. But the current deal is fueling discontent because it barely keeps salaries in 
line with Ireland's 5 percent rate of inflation.
The government-mediated deal commits Aer Lingus to raise workers' pay 2.5 percent this month and 2.5 percent 
more in the spring. The airline is also committed to a further 2.5 percent of raises because of internal agreements.
Aer Lingus airline withholds 7.5 percent pay raises in showdown with unions
Mannion said the company would execute these raises as soon as union chiefs accepted its cost-cutting plan. The 
program is designed to lower Aer Lingus' operating costs closer to those of its major competitor, the ruthless no-
frills leader Ryanair Holdings PLC, which doesn't recognize unions.
He said Ireland's wage-pact agreement does allow companies to withhold pay raises if unions do not honor their 
end of the bargain, which includes the acceptance of workplace reforms.
Mannion said he remained optimistic that union negotiators would accept the cost-cutting program by the end of the 
year.
"Our existing staff cost base leaves us at a serious competitive disadvantage" to Ryanair and U.S. trans-Atlantic 
carriers, the airline said in a letter to its 3,600 employees Tuesday.
Load-Date: October 3, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus airline withholds 7.5 percent pay raises in showdown with unions
Aer Lingus airline withholds 7.5 percent pay raises in showdown with unions
Associated Press Financial Wire
October 2, 2007 Tuesday 1:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 445 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Irish airline Aer Lingus announced Tuesday that it will withhold pay raises until union leaders accept a new 
company plan for cutting costs, a move that risks fueling labor unrest. Ireland's largest union called the move 
tantamount to blackmail and threatened to retaliate.
Aer Lingus Chief Executive Dermot Mannion said the airline would refuse to deliver a series of salary increases 
because unions were refusing to accept a plan reforming work practices, including overtime pay, designed to save 
the company €20 million ($28US.5 million) annually.
"We're doing this because we've reached the end of the line. We're not trying to provoke anyone," said Mannion, 
whose airline is already facing a possible pilots strike over its plan to open a new hub beyond the reach of Irish 
unions in the British territory of Northern Ireland.
Jack O'Connor, president of Ireland's largest union, the Services, Industrial, Professional and Technical Union 
known as SIPTU, accused Aer Lingus of seeking to force unions to accept its cost-cutting plan without proper 
negotiations.
"If we're going to have a situation where a company part-owned by the state can make it up as they go along, and 
seek to blackmail the workers, then what's good for one is good for the other," O'Connor said.
He said Aer Lingus had no right to withhold the pay raises, which are part of a national wage-pact agreement called 
Towards 2016.
Such agreements have been in place in Ireland since 1987 to deter strikes, control salary inflation and make 
Ireland's economy more competitive. But the current deal is fueling discontent because it barely keeps salaries in 
line with Ireland's 5 percent rate of inflation.
The government-mediated deal commits Aer Lingus to raise workers' pay 2.5 percent this month and 2.5 percent 
more in the spring. The airline is also committed to a further 2.5 percent of raises because of internal agreements.
Aer Lingus airline withholds 7.5 percent pay raises in showdown with unions
Mannion said the company would execute these raises as soon as union chiefs accepted its cost-cutting plan. The 
program is designed to lower Aer Lingus' operating costs closer to those of its major competitor, the ruthless no-
frills leader Ryanair Holdings PLC, which doesn't recognize unions.
He said Ireland's wage-pact agreement does allow companies to withhold pay raises if unions do not honor their 
end of the bargain, which includes the acceptance of workplace reforms.
Mannion said he remained optimistic that union negotiators would accept the cost-cutting program by the end of the 
year.
"Our existing staff cost base leaves us at a serious competitive disadvantage" to Ryanair and U.S. trans-Atlantic 
carriers, the airline said in a letter to its 3,600 employees Tuesday.
Load-Date: October 3, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ closes day 3.2pc higher on banks
ISEQ closes day 3.2pc higher on banks
Business World (Digest) 
October 2, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 299 words
Highlight: The Dublin market closed 3.2pc higher today
Body
The Dublin market closed 3.2pc higher today as banking shares continued to shrug off the worst of the credit crisis. 
The ISEQ index of Irish shares closed up 261.28 points at 8245.07.
Irish shares were boosted by the financial sector, in particular, as they clocked up significant gains on rising investor 
confidence. Niamh Hore, analyst at Davy Stockbrokers said," the market's reaction is good news and suggests that 
perhaps a bottom has been reached. The market performance of both European and US banks yesterday suggests 
that a lot of bad news had already been priced in. Investors' confidence should be welcomed, and suggests the 
worst may be behind us." The ISEQ continued to underperform in September, losing 6.2pc, according to Jim 
O'Neill, analyst at Davy Research. This brings its Q3 and year-to-date performance to -15.3pc and -16.2pc 
respectively. Financials bore the brunt of the losses, with the ISE financial index down 7.1pc, he said. However, 
Davy noted that Irish companies continue to make money and the interim reporting season confirmed the strength 
of Irish corporate earnings as upgrades continued to outnumber downgrades. Financial shares made significant 
gains. Bank of Ireland rose 43 to 13.53 and AIB climbed 66c to 17.95. Anglo Irish Bank was up 74c to 13.75 and 
Irish Life and Permanent increased 79c to 16.99. In the construction sector, CRH rose 88c to 29.23 and Kingspan 
climbed 76c to 16.50. McInerney increased 4c to 1.40 and Grafton was up 25c to 8.45. Elsewhere, bookmaker 
Paddy Power remained flat at 30c to 24.90 and no-frills airline Ryanair was up 30c to 5.38 after it announced that it 
is to launch 70 new routes across Europe during October. Other notable movers include DCC, up 25c to 21.50; 
Elan Corporation, up 50c to 15.21; Iaws, down 16c to 16.62. 
Load-Date: October 5, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair announces 70 new routes in October
Ryanair announces 70 new routes in October
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
October 2, 2007 Tuesday 10:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 41 words
Body
Low fares airline Ryanair Holdings PLC has said it will launch 70 new routes across Europe during October.
The airline said the new routes, all of which have been previously announced, will take Ryanair's total number of 
European routes up to 556.
Load-Date: October 2, 2007
End of Document
Doing the Stansted shuffle at midnight
Doing the Stansted shuffle at midnight
Financial Times (London, England)
October 2, 2007 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 12
Length: 457 words
Body
From Mr Charles Cook.
Sir, What is wrong with the Border & Immigration Agency? Quite a lot, judging from our experience - and that of 
several thousand fellow Stansted airport travellers - the weekend before last.
Having landed on UK Tarmac just after midnight, it took 80 minutes for us to clear Immigration. First, our planeful of 
tired people was held on board by Ryanair's crew for 20 minutes, on the instructions of BAA, in turn acting as 
instructed by the BIA. Next, we joined a tunnel full of equally tired people from other aircraft trying to reach 
Stansted's immigration hall. That took a further 30 minutes - with no information other than "please be patient". 
Finally, we all shuffled to and fro around the hall's portable security barriers for another half-hour before reaching 
the immigration desks.
That final 30 minutes gave us all several opportunities to read the BIA's mission statement on the walls of the hall - 
"we aim to see everybody within 45 minutes at the maximum". Clearly, any organisation that misses its own targets 
by nearly 100 per cent cannot be described as operating properly. As if air travellers to and from the UK haven't 
already got enough to endure thanks to the problems within BAA, now it appears that the government is 
exacerbating the issue.
Treating your citizens in such a cavalier fashion is surely unacceptable to a government that professes to care 
about our wellbeing. Our unhappy band of shufflers had a significant proportion of very young and elderly people, 
for whom queuing on your feet in the wee small hours was an obvious physical strain. Who is going to take 
responsibility when - as must be almost inevitable on statistical grounds alone - somebody is taken seriously ill in 
one of these queues?
Tightening security at our borders is all very well - but if scenes like these are going to become part of everyday life, 
then indeed the terrorists will have won, because the BIA's shoddy implementation of the tighter border policies will 
have so negatively affected our lifestyles.
At the very least, the BIA and BAA should arrange as a matter of urgency for the installation of the Iris biomedical 
immigration scanning devices that are already in situ at Heathrow and Gatwick. This would reduce the pressure on 
BIA's immigration officers - yet we were told on Sunday by the BIA officer who eventually processed us that plans to 
Doing the Stansted shuffle at midnight
introduce Iris at Stansted have been postponed until the advent of the planned airport expansion there - ie at some 
undetermined date in the future.
It is this lack of joined-up thinking between the responsible organisations that is making UK air travel a nightmare.
Charles Cook,
Deputy Chairman,
Bell Pottinger Corporate & Financial,
Bell Pottinger Group,
London WC1V 7QD
Load-Date: October 1, 2007
End of Document
Banks rally over belief the worst is over
Banks rally over belief the worst is over
Financial Times (London, England)
October 2, 2007 Tuesday
Europe Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: MARKETS; Pg. 30
Length: 585 words
Byline: By NEIL DENNIS and RACHEL MORARJEE
Body
European stocks ended higher, buoyed by carmakers and banking stocks after UBS rallied on speculation the worst 
of its subprime related losses might be behind it.
The FTSE Eurofirst 300 rose 0.8 per cent, or 12.31 points, to 1,563.20.
Banking stocks fell in early trade yesterday after two of the world's largest investment banks issued profit warnings 
but rebounded as the market digested the news.
Switzerland's UBS rose 3 per cent to Euros 64.50 after sliding 2 per cent on opening when it warned of third-quarter 
losses due to credit market-related write-downs.
The world's largest wealth manager said deficits in its fixed-income portfolio would result in a loss of between 
SFr600m and SFr800 - its first quarterly loss in nine years.
Dresdner Kleinwort said its worst fears had not been realised and that the immediate implementation of cost-cutting 
helped - announcing the departure Huw Jenkins, investment bank chief, and Clive Standish, CFO, as well as the 
loss of 1,500 other jobs in the division.
With shares down nearly 17 per cent on the year, Dresdner said now was the moment to focus on the fundamental 
value of the stock.
US giant Citigroup said its third-quarter earnings would fall 60 per cent after Dollars 3bn in write-downs for 
securities backed by underperforming mortgages, but traders said the fact that the bad news was now out in the 
open meant it was possible to guess at the size of exposure, which allayed fears.
Other investment banks also rose. Credit Suisse, the main domestic rival of UBS, increased 1.8 per cent to SFr78.7 
on the announcement that it was profitable during the third quarter.
Banks rally over belief the worst is over
Deutsche Bank, which fell last week amid concerns it would take big write-downs, rebounded 0.9 per cent to Euros 
91.18. Merrill Lynch cut its third-quarter earnings estimate by 31 per cent, citing write-downs on leveraged loans 
and losses on fixed- income trading.
Italy's Banco Popolare rebounded 3.8 per cent to Euros 16.27, recovering from last week's losses, while Germany's 
Commerzbank rose 1.9 per cent to Euros 28.94.
Air France-KLM
was the day's biggest gainer, jumping 6.5 per cent to Euros 27.44 after Goldman Sachs added the stock to its 
conviction buy list with a Euros 30 price target, citing prospects of consolidation in the sector. Ryanair
, the Irish budget airline, climbed 1.1 per cent to Euros 5.05, while Lufthansa
added 2.2 per cent to Euros 20.62.
Passenger traffic on international airlines grew in August at its fastest clip since April 2006, according to the 
International Air Transport Association, up 8.6 per cent in August compared with the same month last year.
Porsche led the auto sector up, rising by 6 per cent to Euros 1580 with French auto giant Renault gaining 4.4 per 
cent to Euros 106.08 while Peugeot rose 1.24 per cent to Euros 56.60.
Credit Suisse initiated coverage on Renault with an "outperform" rating and a price target of Euros 120, saying the 
company could buck negative trends for the industry as a whole and outperform rival Peugeot, which was given an 
"underperform" rating and a price target of Euros 51.
Analyst Stuart Pearson said the impact of upcoming European Commission legislation that will require average CO 
2 emissions from cars to come in at 120 grams per kilometer by 2012 was "one of the greatest threats to the 
European industry".
Celesio
, the German pharmaceuticals wholesaler, was the day's biggest loser, slumping 12.9 per cent to Euros 38.56 after 
saying on Friday it no longer expected double-digit pre-tax profit growth until 2010.
Load-Date: October 1, 2007
End of Document
UBS shares spurred on by optimism
UBS shares spurred on by optimism
Financial Times (London, England)
October 2, 2007 Tuesday
USA Edition 2
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: MARKETS; Pg. 26
Length: 586 words
Byline: By NEIL DENNIS and RACHEL MORAJEE
Body
European stocks ended higher, buoyed by carmakers and banking stocks after UBS rallied on speculation that the 
worst of its subprime related losses might be behind it.
The FTSE Eurofirst 300 rose 0.8 per cent, or 12.31 points, to 1,563.20.
Banking stocks fell in early trade yesterday after two of the world's largest investment banks issued profit warnings 
but rebounded as the market digested the news.
Switzerland's UBS rose 3 per cent to Euros 64.50 after sliding 2 per cent on opening when it warned of third-quarter 
losses due to credit market-related write-downs.
The world's largest wealth manager said deficits in its fixed-income portfolio would result in a loss of between 
SFr600m and SFr800 - its first quarterly loss in nine years.
Dresdner Kleinwort said its worst fears had not been realised and that the immediate implementation of cost-cutting 
helped - announcing the departure Huw Jenkins, investment bank chief, and Clive Standish, CFO, as well as the 
loss of 1,500 other jobs in the division.
With shares down nearly 17 per cent on the year, Dresdner said now was the moment to focus on the fundamental 
value of the stock.
US giant Citigroup said its third-quarter earnings would fall 60 per cent after Dollars 3bn in write-downs for 
securities backed by underperforming mortgages, but traders said the fact that the bad news was now out in the 
open meant it was possible to guess at the size of exposure, which allayed fears.
Other investment banks also rose. Credit Suisse
, the main domestic rival of UBS, increased 1.8 per cent to SFr78.7 on the announcement that it was profitable 
during the third quarter.
UBS shares spurred on by optimism
Deutsche Bank, which fell last week amid concerns it would take big write-downs, rebounded 0.9 per cent to Euros 
91.18. Merrill Lynch cut its third-quarter earnings estimate by 31 per cent, citing write-downs on leveraged loans 
and losses on fixed- income trading.
Italy's Banco Popolare rebounded 3.8 per cent to Euros 16.27, recovering from last week's losses, while Germany's 
Commerzbank rose 1.9 per cent to Euros 28.94.
Air France-KLM
was the day's biggest gainer, jumping 6.5 per cent to Euros 27.44 after Goldman Sachs added the stock to its 
conviction buy list with a Euros 30 price target, citing prospects of consolidation in the sector. Ryanair
, the Irish budget airline, climbed 1.1 per cent to Euros 5.05, while Lufthansa
added 2.2 per cent to Euros 20.62.
Passenger traffic on international airlines grew in August at its fastest clip since April 2006, according to the 
International Air Transport Association, up 8.6 per cent in August compared with the same month last year.
Porsche led the auto sector up, rising by 6 per cent to Euros 1580 with French auto giant Renault gaining 4.4 per 
cent to Euros 106.08 while Peugeot rose 1.24 per cent to Euros 56.60.
Credit Suisse initiated coverage on Renault with an "outperform" rating and a price target of Euros 120, saying the 
company could buck negative trends for the industry as a whole and outperform rival Peugeot, which was given an 
"underperform" rating and a price target of Euros 51.
Analyst Stuart Pearson said the impact of upcoming European Commission legislation that will require average CO 
2 emissions from cars to come in at 120 grams per kilometer by 2012 was "one of the greatest threats to the 
European industry".
Celesio
, the German pharmaceuticals wholesaler, was the day's biggest loser, slumping 12.9 per cent to Euros 38.56 after 
saying on Friday it no longer expected double-digit pre-tax profit growth until 2010.
Load-Date: October 1, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to launch 70 new routes
Ryanair to launch 70 new routes
Business World (Digest) 
October 2, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 45 words
Highlight: Ryanair said that it will launch 70 new routes across Europe in October.
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair today said that it will launch 70 new routes across Europe during October. 
They include new routes from Barcelona, Dublin, Dusseldorf, East Midlands, Liverpool, Madrid, Pisa and Stockholm 
and the opening of two new bases in Belfast and Valencia.
Load-Date: October 4, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ up 3.6pc, above 8,000 level
ISEQ up 3.6pc, above 8,000 level
Business World (Digest) 
October 2, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 132 words
Highlight: Shares on the Dublin market were above the 8,000 level at midday.
Body
Shares on the Dublin market were above the 8,000 level as the ISEQ surged 3.6pc on banking shares. 
At 11.55 am, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was up 278.97 at 8262.70.
Financial shares made significant gains. Bank of Ireland rose 50c to 13.60 and AIB climbed 42c to 17.71. Anglo 
Irish Bank was up 59c to 13.60 and Irish Life and Permanent increased 81c to 17.01. In the construction sector, 
CRH rose 50c to 28.85 and Kingspan climbed 45c to 16.19. McInerney remained flat at 1.36 and Grafton was up 
20c to 8.40. Elsewhere, bookmaker Paddy Power climbed 30c to 25.20 and no-frills airline Ryanair was up 11c to 
5.19 after it announced that it is to launch 70 new routes across Europe during October. Other notable movers 
include DCC, up 63c to 21.88; Elan, up 24c to 14.95; Iaws, up 32c to 16.10. 
Load-Date: October 4, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ closes up on banks, Kerry Group
ISEQ closes up on banks, Kerry Group
Business World (Digest) 
October 1, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 294 words
Highlight: Shares on the Dublin market closed marginally up today lifted by Kerry.
Body
Shares on the Dublin market closed marginally up today lifted by the banking sector and Kerry Group. 
The ISEQ index of Irish shares closed up 100.12 points at 7983.79
A survey published by Standard Life shows that 46pc of people in the Republic think it is a bad time to invest in 
shares. 
 It said that confidence in shares is down substantially from the previous survey conducted three months earlier. 
More than three quarters of adults (77pc) believe it is a good time to invest in pensions. More than two out of three 
adults (67pc) also believe it's a good time to invest in pension top-ups or additional voluntary contributions. 
Meanwhile, shares in the financial sector were mixed, Bank of Ireland was up 3c to 13.03 and AIB rose 20c to 
17.20. Anglo Irish Bank slipped 26c to 13.00 and Irish Life and Permanent rose 38c to 15.93. In the construction 
sector, CRH climbed 32c to 28.17 and McInerney was up 2c to 1.32. Grafton rose 23c to 8.09 and Kingspan 
increased 24c to 15.64. Elsewhere, no-frills airline Ryanair climbed 6c to 5.06 and bookmaker Paddy Power rose 
35c to 24.95, after it was lifted on the news that online betting exchange Betfair said full-year like-for-like revenue 
grew 30pc despite the challenges presented by the regulatory environment. Other notable movers include Kerry 
Group, up 47c to 21.27; Smurfit Kappa, down 11c to 16.10; Norkom, down 12c to 1.65 Meanwhile, shares at Irish 
drug developer Elan Corporation were up 5c to 14.79 after its flagship drug for the treatment of multiple sclerosis 
won approval from authorities in New Zealand. The approval was based on favourable results of a two-year late-
stage trial of the medicine, the companies said in a release, noting that an estimated 4,000 people in New Zealand 
are affected by MS. 
Load-Date: October 4, 2007
ISEQ closes up on banks, Kerry Group
End of Document
Legal News In Brief
Legal News In Brief
AirFinance Journal
October 2007 
Copyright 2007 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LEGAL NEWS
Length: 229 words
Body
Â· Irish carrier Aer Lingus has applied to the European Commission to order Ryanair to reduce its holding in the 
former state-owned carrier, claiming that the current holding is in breach of EU competition law. 
Ryanair is Aer Lingus' primary shareholder - a fact that is part and parcel of its pursuit of an eventual takeover of 
the company, which was privatized in September 2006. 
The EC has indicated that it will take a decision on or by October 17 2007. 
In a June 2007 decision, the EC rejected Ryanair's takeover proposals as likely to produce a monopoly in Irish 
short-haul travel. Since then, however, Ryanair has continued to build its stake toward a takeover offer threshold. 
UK Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling has proposed to tax flights rather than individual passengers. The 
airline passenger duty (APD) tax will be replaced by a flight tax from November 2009 and should raise £2.5 billion 
($5 billion) annually from 2010. The decision has been welcomed by those with green credentials but has been 
taken badly by some airlines. 
Â· The SAS Group is seeking $77 million in compensation from Bombardier over the problems the airline had with 
the Q400 turboprops. SAS grounded all 27 of their Q400 to inspect them, SAS feel as the problem was in 
components not included in any maintenance manuals, so Bombardier is responsible for any costs incurred. n 
Load-Date: October 22, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair 's Founding Father
Ryanair's Founding Father
AirFinance Journal
October 2007 
Copyright 2007 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: PEOPLE NEWS
Length: 798 words
Highlight: Airfinance Journal pays tribute to one of aviation's great innovators, Tony Ryan, who died in October.
Body
Summing up the life and times of one of the most influential figures in aviation is no easy task, but a number of 
people in the industry had many fond memories to share of Tony Ryan, who died on October 3 after a long illness. 
He was 71. 
Ryan helped to introduce the leasing market and the most successful low-cost airline in Europe, Ryanair. 
Ryan began his involvement in the aviation industry when he joined Irish national carrier Aer Lingus in 1956. In 
1975 the carrier found it had three spare new 747s that it could not fill, so Ryan was given the job of putting them to 
use. After visiting a few airlines, he eventually placed the aircraft with Air Siam. The deal led Ryan to discover more 
demand for operating leases and with this he set up Guinness Peat Aviation (GPA), with Aer Lingus taking a 50% 
stake. 
The portfolio grew rapidly and, in 1981, GPA leased nine aircraft with equity interests in not more than three. Just 
10 years later the lessor had 450 aircraft on lease to more than 100 airlines across the world. The company was run 
from Shannon, Ireland, and controlled by Ryan's unusually open, but very demanding management style. 
After a planned share offering failed in 1992, GE - a shareholder in GPA during the late-1980s - stepped in. Ryan 
stayed on to chair GE Capital Aviation Services, the newly established subsidiary of General Electric, until 1995. In 
1985, Ryan and his family founded low-cost carrier Ryanair, and he was responsible for the appointment of Michael 
O'Leary to chief executive officer in 1994. Ryan remained a non-executive director of the airline after O'Leary's 
appointment. In addition, he played an active role in the airfinance industry, and held investments in a number of 
aircraft. 
Ryanair praised Ryan for his perseverance in founding the airline. "When all others lost faith, his vision, leadership 
and ambition inspired Ryanair's growth to become the world's biggest international passenger airline," the carrier 
said in a statement. "He was, and will remain, an inspiration to all of us." 
Ryanair also described Ryan as a man who transformed the lives of millions, by pioneering competition and low-
fare air travel in Europe.â€‚"Ryanair is proud to bear his name and his legacy.â€‚We will miss him greatly," it added. 
Ryanair 's Founding Father
O'Leary described Ryan as one of the greatest Irishmen of the 20th century.â€‚"His many achievements in 
business, education, sport, the arts and heritage preservation leave an astonishing legacy to an extraordinary 
man.â€‚He was immensely supportive of, and took great pride in, his family and their many successes.â€‚It was a 
privilege to work for him and to learn from him.â€‚I will miss his guidance, encouragement and friendship.â€‚We are 
all determined that Ryanair will continue to carry his name with pride and distinction." 
Other former GPA members, including Robert Murphy, a partner at Freshfields law firm, remembered Ryan. "Tony 
Ryan gave me my first chance to work in the aviation industry and he has had a significant influence in my career. I 
spent five years working at GPA; it was an exciting and challenging environment. GPA was simply the company to 
work for in pre-Celtic Tiger Ireland. Tony Ryan brought together a diverse group of talented executives and 
challenged them to do some really innovative transactions. There were lots of firsts - speculative forward orders, 
joint ventures with manufacturers, portfolio securitizations, breakthroughs in major markets, particularly China and 
Latin America, highly effective repossessions from defaulting lessees. It's a long list." 
Murphy added: "He was a hard task master, expected high-quality work and did not take any bullshit. The annual 
GPA barn dance at his farm in Tipperary was always a great event and high point of the year. He was charismatic - 
a real leader." 
Murphy recalls a GPA reunion a few years ago in Adare. "It was great to see him there and to hear him speak with 
real emotion about the GPA era," he said. "Looking back, it was a honour to have been part of all that and to have 
had the chance to work with Tony Ryan." 
John McMahon, chief executive officer of Genesis Leasing, and formerly of GPA, said: "He inspired a generation of 
people who have an entrepreneurial spirit in aviation. When we were trying to IPO GPA, I remember travelling with 
Ryan to Tokyo in order to talk the company up. He always knew the value of the company and he had an ability to 
see three, four, five years ahead. Some people did not have the same vision. Ryan had a huge level of confidence, 
but no matter how ambitious his vision sounded, it was always achievable. I also remember Ryanair when it was a 
small company and today it is one of the most successful airlines in Europe." 
Ryan's vision and tenacity will be remembered for years to come. 
Load-Date: October 22, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair could fly to Long Island
Ryanair could fly to Long Island
Business World (Digest) 
October 1, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 113 words
Highlight: No-frills airline, Ryanair, could choose Long Island's MacArthur Airport in New York as its first US hub.
Body
No-frills airline, Ryanair, could choose Long Island's MacArthur Airport in New York as its first US hub, according to 
media reports from the US.
Ryanair's chief executive, Michael O'Leary, announced in April that it might launch a separate airline to fly between 
Europe and five or six U.S. cities.
Talks have been slow, however, and the airline said it didn't anticipate starting the service for a few years.
 Ryanair began exploring the possibility of U.S. flights after the EU approved a deal to open up restricted trans-
Atlantic routes to new rivals. McArthur Airport does not currently take international traffic but has accepted a grant 
of more than USD1m to upgrade facilities. 
Load-Date: October 3, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ slightly down, buoyed by Kerry
ISEQ slightly down, buoyed by Kerry
Business World (Digest) 
October 1, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 121 words
Highlight: Shares on the Dublin market were marginally down in midday trade.
Body
Shares on the Dublin market were marginally down in midday trade buoyed by Kerry Group and Kingspan. 
At 11.35am, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 27.03 points at 7856.64. 
Shares in the financial sector were mixed, Bank of Ireland fell 7c to 12.93 and AIB dropped 19c to 16.81. Anglo Irish 
Bank slipped 30c to 12.96 and Irish Life and Permanent rose 1c to 15.56.
 In the construction sector, CRH fell 11c to 27.74 and McInerney dropped 2c to 1.28. Grafton climbed 12c to 7.97 
and Kingspan was up 23c to 15.57. Elsewhere, bookmaker Paddy Power rose 25c to 24.85 and no-frills airline 
Ryanair climbed 4c to 5.04. Other notable movers include Kerry, up 28c to 21.08; Smurfit Kappa, down 12c to 
16.09; Norkom, down 12c to 1.65 
Load-Date: October 3, 2007
End of Document
NORTHERN IRELAND AIMS TO STRENGTHEN TOURISM
NORTHERN IRELAND AIMS TO STRENGTHEN TOURISM
WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS
October 1, 2007 Monday
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved
Information Bank Abstracts
Section: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 19
Length: 57 words
Byline: Quentin Fottrell
Body
Northern Ireland is selling itself as major growth story as it tries to catch up to Republic of Ireland economically; 
sees tourism as largely untapped source of income; Tourism Board has been heavily marketing key destinations; 
developers are building hotels; budget airline Ryanair Holdings and Aer Lingus have both put new bases in Belfast 
(M)
Load-Date: October 2, 2007
End of Document
Negotiations intensify between BMI and Shannon
Negotiations intensify between BMI and Shannon
Sunday Business Post
September 30, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 391 words
Body
Talks intensified last week between British airline, BMI and Shannon Airport Authority on a new Heathrow service, 
although a breakthrough is not imminent , according to senior sources close to the negotiations.
A government motion on the Shannon controversy came close to an embarrassing defeat in the Dail on Thursday 
when 20 TDs failed to show for the crucial vote.
The motion recognised the importance of international connectivity for Shannon and expressed disappointment at 
Aer Lingus's decision to end its Shannon-Heathrow route. However, the government declined to intervene to 
reverse the airline's decision to transfer its Heathrow slots to Belfast.
Meanwhile, it is understood that BMI has conducted a study on the feasibility of the route, and recently sought the 
support of local business community to ensure it is viable.
Industry sources estimated the airline could make &euro;12 million yearly by contracting out the work of 120 ground 
handling staff and when revenues from an estimated 100,000 Shannon passengers on BMI international flights from 
Heathrow are factored in.
The estimates are also based on BMI availing of incentives for new routes offered by the Shannon Airport Authority.
It is believed BMI has concerns that Ryanair, which operates services to Gatwick, Stansted and Luton, would also 
target point-to-point passengers on the Shannon-Heathrow route.
Last week's Dail motion put Clare and Limerick Fianna Fail TDs under pressure as their votes defeated a Fine Gael 
motion calling for the government to intervene with Aer Lingus management to reverse its decision.
A Fianna Fail TD who campaigned against the Aer Lingus decision, Timmy Dooley, accused Fine Gael of ''peddling 
a line aimed at misinforming the public, as its motion could not have forced the government to act against legal 
advice''.
Negotiations intensify between BMI and Shannon
Fianna Fail deputy Tony Killeen said that the Aer Lingus chief executive Dermot Mannion's briefings on industrial 
relations in the company ''set the background for the decision and raise serious issues that cannot be avoided and 
must be grappled with in the future. They claim they can achieve better load factors and fares in Belfast. The 
evidence of booking to date suggests strongly that will not be the case and, if this transpires to be so, Aer Lingus 
management has a case to answer on commercial grounds'' said Killeen.
Load-Date: September 30, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus plans to build 'Tesco-like' image
Aer Lingus plans to build 'Tesco-like' image
Sunday Business Post
September 30, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MEDIA AND MARKETING
Length: 1089 words
Body
Catherine O'Mahony reports on the airline's push to remind customers about its good service and low prices.
Aer Lingus would like its image in the airline industry to emulate that of Tesco in the supermarket business - very 
good service at a smart price - according to the airline's marketing chief Fintan Lonergan.
''We're not Aldi or Lidl," said Lonergan, teasing out the possible comparisons with the Aer Lingus brand. ''And we're 
definitely not Harrods, or even Marks & Spencer. Tesco is about right. It strikes a balance between low prices and 
the value to be had from how things are delivered."
Aer Lingus is set to unveil a fresh version of itself this week. It is launching its first television brand commercial 
since the September 11 crisis that six years ago prompted airlines the world over to rethink their entire business 
model, and very nearly pushed Aer Lingus into bankruptcy.
The new commercial reintroduces a human face to the Aer Lingus brand, which has taken a deliberately functional 
approach to its marketing in recent years.
Filmed at different locations on the coast and in the mountains of northern Italy, the ad features several members of 
the airline's cabin crew delivering the kind of standard of friendly care that Aer Lingus still sees as its primary point 
of differentiation from more unambiguously no-frills rivals such as Ryanair.
The commercial begins with a direct reference to these rivals, a s the voice-over points out that AerLingus flies to 
regular airports, not those miles away from the destination.
It goes on to highlight other points of differentiation: the fact that Aer Lingus still offers allocated seating, its self-
service check-in and its focus on customer service. It ends with the new global tagline: Enjoy Your Flight.
The emotional appeal of the new ad, with its emphasis on warmth and friendliness, is a distinct novelty. It got a 
thumbs-up from the Aer Lingus cabin crew who viewed it last week, according to Lonergan.
Aer Lingus plans to build 'Tesco-like' image
''I think it's very believable in terms of today's Aer Lingus," he said.
''Our business is flying people from place to place. We've never forgotten that. In our view, low-fares air travel 
doesn't have to be a bad experience, and can be quite the opposite. I believe with this brand message, we are 
putting a clear space in our customers' minds between AerLingus and its rivals."
Lonergan, who joined Aer Lingus as head of marketing in 2002,h as presided over a deliberately no-frills marketing 
strategy to match Aer Lingus's recent focus on low-cost flight provision, under the theme ''low fares, way better''.
He wanted, he says, to challenge perceptions of the Aer Lingus brand, and move to what the industry would call a 
''valueled proposition''.
Avoiding the bigger advertising agencies, he picked a boutique agency, Rothco, to come up with a series of no 
nonsense ads that have driven home a low-cost message.
A bright red dot replaced the shamrock in the Aer Lingus logo, an unambiguous reference to the dotcom identity 
that Aer Lingus was trying to establish.
The advertising emphasis went from making people feel good about the Aer Lingus brand to reminding them how 
cheap the flights were and - as a priority - encouraging them to buy tickets online.
Ten-second TV spots, heavy press advertising and assiduous online marketing became the norm.
The advertising industry was largely under whelmed by what seemed to many to be an uninteresting approach, 
creatively speaking, but the strategy paid off handsomely in ticket sales. Global online bookings rocketed up from 
22 per cent of ticket sales to around 80 per cent.
That, according to Lonergan, has led to a 75 per cent reduction in distribution costs at the airline which, in turn, has 
helped it to challenge no-frills carriers on price.
Now a profitable airline, Aer Lingus operates double the short-haul routes that it did in 2002 (including the nine 
routes that arose from its controversial shift from Shannon to Belfast). And the starting cost of flights is &euro;1, 
before taxes and charges.
Results like this meant that Lonergan was this year voted Marketing Professional of the Year by his peers in the 
Marketing Institute, against a field that included Maurice Breen from Bulmers and Greg McAweeney from Rabo 
Direct.
Separately, Rothco's Aer Lingus commercials may not have won any creative accolades, but they did win a gold in 
the Advertising Effectiveness Awards this year, because of their ads' impact on customer behaviour. After five years 
of this approach, however, a change has been creeping into the way Aer Lingus presents itself.
T he shamrock, which had always remained visible on Aer Lingus aircraft, has returned in the past few months to 
the online and offline logo, and the red dot is gone.
The colour green, always associated with Aer Lingus and still the main colour for uniforms, ha s made a comeback 
to what is now a more stylised logo. And there is a hint of the old Aer Lingus in the new TV commercials too, 
although Lonergan is quick to emphasise that this will not be driven too far, since Aer Lingus does not want to be 
perceived by anyone as a premium brand.
''This is a 70-year old brand," he said. ''Plenty of companies would kill for that kind of brand heritage. But at the 
same time, we have to make our brand relevant to the way people travel now and that's very different to the way 
they travelled ten years ago. But our confidence is up now. We know we're established in people's minds as a low-
cost operator."
Aer Lingus plans to build 'Tesco-like' image
Lonergan also stressed that the commercial was not particularly high-cost as TV advertisements go, since the 
location was so restricted.
''This was a practical approach," he said.
The media spend, while ''sufficient to get us noticed'', would not run to blanket coverage across all the main TV 
stations, he added.
There will, instead, be several bursts of brand advertising on TV this year and next, with a small outdoor element, 
supported by the usual offer-based ads that Aer Lingus runs all the time. Aer Lingus is also running a launch 
communications campaign in the North across TV, radio, print and outdoor, with Belfast routes due to begin in 
December.
Bookings were up, Lonergan said, and 95 per cent of them were online.
''The advertising industry isn't always seen as being very cost-effective, but there's a clear expectation [in Aer 
Lingus] that marketing works efficiently," he said.
The return to brand advertising is part of a long-term strategy, however. ''The fact that we focus on customers never 
went away. But now we're going to be talking about it again."
Load-Date: September 30, 2007
End of Document
Logitech, Foster Wheeler, Joy Global shares rise, boosting Nasdaq 100
Logitech, Foster Wheeler, Joy Global shares rise, boosting Nasdaq 100
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 28, 2007 Friday 4:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 210 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Nasdaq 100 rose Friday, boosted by gains in shares of Logitech International SA and Foster Wheeler Ltd.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, fell 6.31 points to 
2,090.08. The broader Nasdaq composite shed 5.76 points to 2,703.83.
Shares of Logitech, which makes peripherals for computers such as mice, speakers and keyboards, rose 89 cents, 
or 3.1 percent, to $29.51.
Shares of construction services provider Foster Wheeler jumped $4.15, or 3.2 percent, to $133.21, after a report 
said construction activity rose above expectations in August. Analysts were expecting a decline.
Shares of mining equipment maker Joy Global Inc. shares added $1.20, or 2.4 percent, to $51.26.
On the declining side, Wynn Resorts Ltd. shares sank $7.51, or 4.5 percent, to $159.47 after the casino and resort 
operator said it priced a public offering of approximately 3.8 million shares of its common stock at $158 per share.
Ryanair Holdings plc gave up $1.23, or 3 percent, to $40.30, reversing day-ago gains. The stock previously rose on 
news the Irish airline operator agreed to a four-year pay deal with Dublin pilots.
Shares of network storage system company Network Appliance Inc. lost 63 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $26.99.
Load-Date: September 29, 2007
End of Document
Midday Leaders & Laggards : Nasdaq 100
Midday Leaders & Laggards: Nasdaq 100
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 28, 2007 Friday 4:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 210 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Nasdaq 100 rose Friday, boosted by gains in shares of Logitech International SA and Foster Wheeler Ltd.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, fell 6.31 points to 
2,090.08. The broader Nasdaq composite shed 5.76 points to 2,703.83.
Shares of Logitech, which makes peripherals for computers such as mice, speakers and keyboards, rose 89 cents, 
or 3.1 percent, to $29.51.
Shares of construction services provider Foster Wheeler jumped $4.15, or 3.2 percent, to $133.21, after a report 
said construction activity rose above expectations in August. Analysts were expecting a decline.
Shares of mining equipment maker Joy Global Inc. shares added $1.20, or 2.4 percent, to $51.26.
On the declining side, Wynn Resorts Ltd. shares sank $7.51, or 4.5 percent, to $159.47 after the casino and resort 
operator said it priced a public offering of approximately 3.8 million shares of its common stock at $158 per share.
Ryanair Holdings plc gave up $1.23, or 3 percent, to $40.30, reversing day-ago gains. The stock previously rose on 
news the Irish airline operator agreed to a four-year pay deal with Dublin pilots.
Shares of network storage system company Network Appliance Inc. lost 63 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $26.99.
Load-Date: September 29, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ slightly down on Paddy Power, Elan
ISEQ slightly down on Paddy Power, Elan
Business World (Digest) 
September 28, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 120 words
Highlight: Irish shares rebounded slightly from yesterday's gains on falls from Elan.
Body
Irish shares rebounded slightly from yesterday's gains on falls from Paddy Power and Elan.
At 11.30pm, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 8.56 points at 7,784.42.
Financial shares were mixed. Bank of Ireland rose 5c to 12.65 and AIB climbed 7c to 16.70. Anglo Irish Bank was 
up 11c to 12.81 and Irish Life and Permanent dropped 19c to 15.16. In the construction sector, CRH was up 2c to 
27.54 and Grafton remained flat at 7.95. Kingspan climbed 2c to 15.30 and McInerney fell 3c to 1.37. Elsewhere, 
Irish pharmaceutical company Elan, dropped 30c to 14.63 and bookmaker Paddy Power slipped 46c to 25.04. 
Other notable movers include Ryanair, down 4c to 5.06; Smurfit Kappa, up 12c to 15.97; Kerry Group, up 22c to 
20.60. 
Load-Date: October 2, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair agrees four year pay deal with its Dublin-based pilots
Ryanair agrees four year pay deal with its Dublin-based pilots
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 27, 2007 Thursday 1:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 219 words
Body
Low-fares airline Ryanair Holdings PLC has reached agreement with its Dublin based pilots on a new four-year pay 
and rostering deal.
Ryanair said the deal would significantly improve pay, rosters and terms and conditions for the carrier's Dublin-
based pilots. The move brings the airline's pilots into line with the pay and conditions previously negotiated by 
Ryanair pilots at its other Irish bases.
The agreement was concluded following proposals which were put to the airline by the Dublin pilots, which were the 
subject of recent negotiations, and have now been voted on and approved by a majority of Ryanair's Dublin-based 
pilots. Ryanair has accepted these proposals and will implement the improved rosters, increased pay and 
allowances with effect from 14 October.
'We are pleased that this new four year Dublin pilot pay deal will see our Dublin pilots enjoy substantial pay 
increases of over 25,000 eur per annum for Captains and over 15,000 eur for First Officers,' Ryanair's director of 
personnel, Eddie Wilson said in a statement.
'The new rosters will guarantee Ryanair's pilots a further 25 days off each year. This new agreement brings 
Ryanair's Dublin pilots back into line with the pay and conditions previously negotiated by Ryanair pilots at our other 
Irish bases such as Cork and Shannon,' he added.
Load-Date: September 27, 2007
End of Document
Wynn Resorts , EchoStar Communications , and Ryanair Holdings lift Nasdaq 100
Wynn Resorts, EchoStar Communications, and Ryanair Holdings lift Nasdaq 
100
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 27, 2007 Thursday 8:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 269 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Nasdaq 100 ended higher on Thursday, boosted by gains in shares of Wynn Resorts Ltd., EchoStar 
Communications Corp. and Ryanair Holdings PLC.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, added 8.01 points 
to 2,096.39. The broader Nasdaq composite rose 10.56 points to 2,709.59.
In a client note, Citigroup analyst Joshua Attie said casinos outperformed the market in August, especially shares of 
companies with a presence in Macau, which includes Wynn. Wynn shares gained $9.71, or 6.2 percent, to $166.98.
EchoStar Communications rose $2.51, or 5.8 percent, to $45.98, after receiving an analyst upgrade from an 
Oppenheimer analyst, who said he expects AT&T Inc. to buy the digital cable company at a high price.
And Irish airline operator Ryanair rose $1.77, or 4.5 percent, to $41.53 on news that the company agreed to a four-
year pay deal with Dublin pilots.
On the losing side, Paychex Inc. shares sank $1.58, or 3.6 percent, to $42, after the provider of payroll and human 
resources services cut its fiscal 2008 earnings outlook, saying it expects lower investment income.
And XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. shed 38 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $14, reversing gains from Wednesday when 
the testimony of a U.S. Justice Department official strengthened the perception that the company would be allowed 
to combine with Sirius Satellite Radio Inc.
Starbucks Corp. shares lost 72 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $26.97, after a Banc of America Securities analyst cut his 
rating on the coffee chain operator to "Sell" from "Neutral," discouraged by slowing growth in the U.S.
Load-Date: September 28, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair agrees 4-yr pay deal with pilots
Ryanair agrees 4-yr pay deal with pilots
Business World (Digest) 
September 27, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 210 words
Highlight: Ryanair has reached agreement with its Dublin-based pilots
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair has reached agreement with its Dublin-based pilots on a new four-year pay and rostering 
deal. 
Ryanair said the deal would significantly improve pay, rosters and terms and conditions for its pilots. 
The move brings the airline's pilots into line with the pay and conditions previously negotiated by Ryanair pilots at 
its other Irish bases. 
 The agreement was concluded following proposals, which were put to the airline by the pilots, which were the 
subject of recent negotiations, and have now been voted on and approved by a majority of Ryanair's pilots. Ryanair 
has accepted these proposals and will implement the improved rosters, increased pay and allowances with effect 
from 14 October. "We are pleased that this new four year Dublin pilot pay deal will see our Dublin pilots enjoy 
substantial pay increases of over E25,000 per annum for Captains and over E15,000 for First Officers," Ryanair's 
director of personnel, Eddie Wilson said in a statement. "The new rosters will guarantee Ryanair's pilots a further 25 
days off each year. This new agreement brings Ryanair's Dublin pilots back into line with the pay and conditions 
previously negotiated by Ryanair pilots at our other Irish bases such as Cork and Shannon," he added. 
Load-Date: October 1, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair challenges permission on T2, regulator's decision on airport charges
Ryanair challenges permission on T2, regulator's decision on airport 
charges
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 27, 2007 Thursday 5:42 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 66 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC said it has applied for a judicial review of An Bord Pleanala's decision upholding planning 
permission for the DAA's 800 mln eur second terminal (T2), and also the Commission for Aviation Regulation's 
(CAR's) decision to allow the majority of DAA's costs for T2 to be recovered through higher passenger charges.
Both applications were filed with the High Court this afternoon.
Load-Date: September 27, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair challenges T2 plan in High Court
Ryanair challenges T2 plan in High Court
Business World (Digest) 
September 27, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 166 words
Highlight: Ryanair has applied for a judicial review of An Bord Pleanala's decision upholding planning permission 
for the DAA's E800m second terminal at Dublin Airport.
Body
Ryanair has applied for a judicial review of An Bord Pleanala's decision upholding planning permission for the 
DAA's E800m second terminal at Dublin Airport.
It is also challenging the Commission for Aviation Regulation's (CAR's) decision to allow the majority of DAA's costs 
for the terminal to be recovered through higher passenger charges.
An Bord Pleanala granted permission last month for the first phase of a second main terminal at the airport and 
approved the construction of a new runway subject to stringent conditions.
 At the time Ryanair said the DAA's "gold-plated" terminal would lead to "a doubling of the already high passenger 
charges" and vowed to challenge it. In a statement today, the carrier said: "These two applications for the High 
Court to judicially review the decision of An Bord Pleanala approving T2 and the CAR's decision allowing the DAA 
to recover the inflated costs of T2 are aimed at preventing further passenger charge increases and inefficiency at 
Dublin airport.
Load-Date: October 1, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair says referred Aer Lingus ' 'unlawful' behaviour to its legal team
Ryanair says referred Aer Lingus' 'unlawful' behaviour to its legal team
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 26, 2007 Wednesday 3:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 227 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC said it has consulted its legal team over Aer Lingus Group PLC's rejection of Ryanair's 
second request for the airline to hold an extraordinary shareholders meeting about the Irish flag carrier's Shannon-
Heathrow services.
Aer Lingus plans to end Shannon-Heathrow services in January, saying they are its least profitable route. But 
Ryanair, which owns a 29.4 pct stake in Aer Lingus, claims the second rejection of an EGM to discuss the matter is 
'unlawful'.
'We have referred this unlawful behaviour to our legal advisors and will consider with them whether we should 
pursue our shareholder rights under the Companies Act 1963 or through the Courts. In the interim we will continue 
to closely monitor the actions of the board and management of Aer Lingus Group PLC,' Ryanair company secretary 
Jim Callaghan said in a letter to Aer Lingus released today.
Earlier this month, Aer Lingus threw out a second request from Ryanair to convene an EGM to force the Irish flag 
carrier to retain its Shannon-Heathrow services, which are due to be replaced by Belfast-Heathrow services on Jan 
14 2008.
At the time, Aer Lingus said in a statement it had written to Ryanair rejecting the request, saying it believes the no-
frills carrier wanted to 'interfere with and frustrate the commercial and operational performance of Ryanair's most 
resilient competitor'.
Load-Date: September 26, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair calls Aer Lingus `absurd,' `ridiculous' for blocking shareholders meeting
Ryanair calls Aer Lingus `absurd,' `ridiculous' for blocking shareholders 
meeting
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 26, 2007 Wednesday 2:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: INTERNATIONAL NEWS
Length: 589 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Budget airline Ryanair has accused its major Irish rival, Aer Lingus, of behaving illegally and ridiculously by refusing 
to convene a shareholders meeting.
Ryanair, which has built a 29.4 percent stake to become the No. 1 shareholder of Aer Lingus, said in a letter 
published Wednesday that the Dublin-based carrier was required by Ireland's corporate laws to accept Ryanair's 
demand for a meeting.
Ryanair threatened to take legal action, but gave no details, in its letter to Aer Lingus chairman John Sharman, who 
has twice rebuffed Ryanair demands for an extraordinary general meeting.
"Your claim that the holding of an EGM would infringe competition law is of course absurd," Ryanair company 
secretary Jim Callaghan wrote to Sharman.
"Indeed, to follow your ridiculous line of argument, you and your fellow directors of Aer Lingus would have already 
breached competition law by having permitted Ryanair to participate and vote at this year's AGM (annual general 
meeting). Aer Lingus appears to invoke competition concerns only when it suits your purposes, regardless of how 
absurd or legally untenable these claims are," he wrote.
The letter represented the latest salvo in a year-long war between the rivals over whether Ryanair, already Europe's 
biggest no-frills carrier, can eventually seize Aer Lingus.
The immediate issue is whether Ryanair and other shareholders, most crucially the government and Aer Lingus 
employee-controlled trusts, will be permitted to vote to overturn Aer Lingus' next strategic gamble to transfer links 
with London's Heathrow Airport from western Ireland to the British territory of Northern Ireland.
Ryanair says it wants Aer Lingus to reverse the decision because the existing routes are profitable and, as the top 
shareholder, Ryanair wants to defend that profit.
Ryanair calls Aer Lingus `absurd,' `ridiculous' for blocking shareholders meeting
Aer Lingus has accused Ryanair of a cynical stunt designed to undermine Aer Lingus directors and embarrass the 
government, which retained a 25 percent stake when it privatized the airline a year ago.
The real game, analysts say, could be over whether Ryanair can keep building its holding to the 50 percent 
threshold required to gain control of Aer Lingus. Aer Lingus employees, by and large hostile to Ryanair, hold the 
lion's share of remaining shares.
Labor unions active in Aer Lingus oppose both Ryanair's takeover push and Aer Lingus' move to ax unionized jobs 
at Shannon Airport, western Ireland, in favor of a new lower-cost base in Northern Ireland. Ryanair appears to be 
trying, in part, to curry favor with Aer Lingus workers who might be tempted to join Ryanair in a revolt against Aer 
Lingus management.
Aer Lingus already faces obstacles to open its new Northern Ireland hub in early December. Pilots are threatening 
to strike unless the airline gives its new Northern Ireland-based pilots the same employment contract and pension 
rights. Aer Lingus has rejected this demand, noting that Northern Ireland is in a different country, the United 
Kingdom.
A consortium of business leaders in western Ireland, meanwhile, has pleaded with Aer Lingus not to withdraw the 
region's direct connections with Heathrow. They claim tens of thousands of jobs, chiefly in high-tech corporations, 
are underpinned by their easy access to Heathrow's myriad international connections.
The government of Prime Minister Bertie Ahern stressed, when it opposed Ryanair's takeover bid, that it wanted to 
protect economically sensitive services such as the Shannon-Heathrow link. It has declined to take any action since 
Aer Lingus decided to kill the route.
Load-Date: September 27, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair calls Aer Lingus `absurd,' `ridiculous' for blocking shareholders meeting
Ryanair calls Aer Lingus `absurd,' `ridiculous' for blocking shareholders 
meeting
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 26, 2007 Wednesday 4:25 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 589 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Budget airline Ryanair has accused its major Irish rival, Aer Lingus, of behaving illegally and ridiculously by refusing 
to convene a shareholders meeting.
Ryanair, which has built a 29.4 percent stake to become the No. 1 shareholder of Aer Lingus, said in a letter 
published Wednesday that the Dublin-based carrier was required by Ireland's corporate laws to accept Ryanair's 
demand for a meeting.
Ryanair threatened to take legal action, but gave no details, in its letter to Aer Lingus chairman John Sharman, who 
has twice rebuffed Ryanair demands for an extraordinary general meeting.
"Your claim that the holding of an EGM would infringe competition law is of course absurd," Ryanair company 
secretary Jim Callaghan wrote to Sharman.
"Indeed, to follow your ridiculous line of argument, you and your fellow directors of Aer Lingus would have already 
breached competition law by having permitted Ryanair to participate and vote at this year's AGM (annual general 
meeting). Aer Lingus appears to invoke competition concerns only when it suits your purposes, regardless of how 
absurd or legally untenable these claims are," he wrote.
The letter represented the latest salvo in a year-long war between the rivals over whether Ryanair, already Europe's 
biggest no-frills carrier, can eventually seize Aer Lingus.
The immediate issue is whether Ryanair and other shareholders, most crucially the government and Aer Lingus 
employee-controlled trusts, will be permitted to vote to overturn Aer Lingus' next strategic gamble to transfer links 
with London's Heathrow Airport from western Ireland to the British territory of Northern Ireland.
Ryanair says it wants Aer Lingus to reverse the decision because the existing routes are profitable and, as the top 
shareholder, Ryanair wants to defend that profit.
Ryanair calls Aer Lingus `absurd,' `ridiculous' for blocking shareholders meeting
Aer Lingus has accused Ryanair of a cynical stunt designed to undermine Aer Lingus directors and embarrass the 
government, which retained a 25 percent stake when it privatized the airline a year ago.
The real game, analysts say, could be over whether Ryanair can keep building its holding to the 50 percent 
threshold required to gain control of Aer Lingus. Aer Lingus employees, by and large hostile to Ryanair, hold the 
lion's share of remaining shares.
Labor unions active in Aer Lingus oppose both Ryanair's takeover push and Aer Lingus' move to ax unionized jobs 
at Shannon Airport, western Ireland, in favor of a new lower-cost base in Northern Ireland. Ryanair appears to be 
trying, in part, to curry favor with Aer Lingus workers who might be tempted to join Ryanair in a revolt against Aer 
Lingus management.
Aer Lingus already faces obstacles to open its new Northern Ireland hub in early December. Pilots are threatening 
to strike unless the airline gives its new Northern Ireland-based pilots the same employment contract and pension 
rights. Aer Lingus has rejected this demand, noting that Northern Ireland is in a different country, the United 
Kingdom.
A consortium of business leaders in western Ireland, meanwhile, has pleaded with Aer Lingus not to withdraw the 
region's direct connections with Heathrow. They claim tens of thousands of jobs, chiefly in high-tech corporations, 
are underpinned by their easy access to Heathrow's myriad international connections.
The government of Prime Minister Bertie Ahern stressed, when it opposed Ryanair's takeover bid, that it wanted to 
protect economically sensitive services such as the Shannon-Heathrow link. It has declined to take any action since 
Aer Lingus decided to kill the route.
Load-Date: September 27, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair consults legal team on Aer EGM
Ryanair consults legal team on Aer EGM
Business World (Digest) 
September 26, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 224 words
Highlight: Ryanair said it has consulted its legal team over Aer Lingus' rejection.
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair said it has consulted its legal team over Aer Lingus' rejection of Ryanair's second request for 
the airline to hold an extraordinary shareholders meeting about the carrier's Shannon-Heathrow services. 
Aer Lingus plans to end Shannon-Heathrow services in January, saying they are its least profitable route. But 
Ryanair, which owns a 29.4 pct stake in Aer Lingus, claims the second rejection of an EGM to discuss the matter is 
"unlawful". 
"We have referred this unlawful behaviour to our legal advisors and will consider with them whether we should 
pursue our shareholder rights under the Companies Act 1963 or through the Courts. In the interim we will continue 
to closely monitor the actions of the board and management of Aer Lingus," Ryanair company secretary Jim 
Callaghan said in a letter to Aer Lingus released today. 
 Earlier this month, Aer Lingus threw out a second request from Ryanair to convene an EGM to force the Irish flag 
carrier to retain its Shannon-Heathrow services, which are due to be replaced by Belfast-Heathrow services on Jan 
14 2008. At the time, Aer Lingus said in a statement it had written to Ryanair rejecting the request, saying it 
believes the no-frills carrier wanted to "interfere with and frustrate the commercial and operational performance of 
Ryanair's most resilient competitor". 
Load-Date: September 28, 2007
End of Document
Estate agents predict property websites will replace high street premises
Estate agents predict property websites will replace high street premises
Citywire
September 26, 2007 Wednesday 8:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 381 words
Body
The high street shop window of estate agents could soon be a thing of the past as more and more customers 
choose to access property information via websites.
A survey by HotProperty.co.uk, reveals that although 71% of agents agreed that high street premises are still in 
demand now, only 38% thought they would be necessary in ten years and only 28% thought they would be 
necessary in 20 years. Asked where agents should be operating now, if not in high street stores, there was an 
equal split between online and in serviced offices.
The most common reason cited for needing a high street office in today's property market was the attraction of 
face-to-face interaction and the benefit of being able to secure 'walk-in' business. One respondent commented, 
'customers still like to come in and discuss their property or discuss their requirements face to face, in addition to 
the information provided on the websites.'
'The property market has been steadily becoming more and more reliant on the internet, but there is obviously still a 
strong demand for high street offices,' said HotProperty managing director Shawn Luetchens. 'When it comes down 
to it, people today still like to be able to browse estate agent windows for houses, but for how long it's hard to say. 
Without a doubt the future for estate agents is going to be online, it's a just a matter of how fast it happens.'
Both property searches and travel arrangements have largely migrated to the internet with airlines like Ryanair and 
Easyjet selling over 95% of their tickets on line. In 2006 only 42% of overseas holidays were sold through travel 
agents, representing 19.7 million trips
Competition from direct Internet booking (both for self-packaging independent travel and tour operator packages) 
eroded travel agency sales by 7% between 2001 and 2006
Since 2001, the greatest decline in high street presence has come from MyTravel's Going Places outlets (139 
closures) and Worldchoice (277 closures). Thomas Cook and Thomson closures have been less severe, and the 
latter remains Britain's largest high street agent with 776 stores
The implications for high street retail property units held by investors and property funds if estate agencies and 
travel agencies abandon the high street in large numbers could be significant.
Load-Date: September 29, 2007
Estate agents predict property websites will replace high street premises
End of Document
Dollar weakness to impact Irish firms
Dollar weakness to impact Irish firms
Business World (Digest) 
September 25, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 210 words
Highlight: The surging euro and falling dollar will have significant impacts on the country's top listed firms with the 
likes of on the CRH losing side, a major study by NCB shows.
Body
The surging euro and falling dollar will have significant impacts on the country's top listed firms with the likes of on 
the CRH losing side, a major study by NCB shows.
The dollar has lost some 6.5pc in value against the euro in the year so far, NCB said.
It said Irish firms with what it calls a translation exposure to the currency will see lower earnings but unaffected 
cash-flow. These firms include CRH, with a 4pc to 5pc earnings risk, Glanbia with a 4pc risk and IAWS with a 3pc to 
4pc risk to profits.
 Companies exposed to what it calls a transaction exposure - those dependent on buying in dollar but who report in 
euros - comprises Ryanair and Aer Lingus both of which buy oil in dollars. "Elan, Iona Technologies and Icon all 
report in dollars and derive most of their revenues from the US, where they also incur most of their costs. Reported 
profits would rise as a result of the translation of non-dollar revenues but for a euro-based investor a 10pc decline in 
dollar hits the value of their holding," NCB said. Ryanair, Aer Lingus, Fyffes and Waterford Wedgwood maintain 
significant dollar hedges. This would delay the gain/loss as a result of a weaker dollar for a period of time but 
ultimately it will be reflected in financial results, NCB said.
Load-Date: September 27, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ closes down on McInerney slump
ISEQ closes down on McInerney slump
Business World (Digest) 
September 25, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 256 words
Highlight: Shares on the Dublin market closed marginally down today.
Body
Shares on the Dublin market closed significantly down today as shares at home builder McInerney
slumped by almost 20pc after it said housing completions in Ireland dropped by 100 in the first half of this year 
compared with the first six months of 2006.
The ISEQ index of Irish shares closed 176.77 points down at 7608.54
A major study by NCB, published today, shows that the surging euro and falling dollar will have significant impacts 
on the country's top listed firms with the likes of on the CRH losing side. It said Irish firms with what it calls a 
translation exposure to the currency will see lower earnings but unaffected cash-flow. These firms include CRH, 
with a 4pc to 5pc earnings risk, Glanbia with a 4pc risk and IAWS with a 3pc to 4pc risk to profits. Meanwhile, in the 
financial sector, Bank of Ireland was down 22c to 11.64 and AIB slipped 40c to 16.20. Anglo Irish Bank fell 56c to 
12.09 and Irish Life and Permanent was down 71c to 14.37. Shares in the construction sector were mainly in the 
red. CRH fell 86c to 27.09 and Grafton slipped 42c to 8.05. Kingspan slumped 56c to 1592 with McInerney dropping 
35c to 1.47 after pre-tax profits at home builder declined by E2 million in the first half of this year compared to the 
same period last year as its Irish house completions dropped. Elsewhere, shares at Irish pharmaceutical firm Elan 
rose 3c to 14.32 while no-frills airline Ryanair slipped 13c to 4.87. Other notable movers include Kerry Group, down 
60c to 20.20, C and C down 59c to 6.03; Glanbia, down 7c to 4.20. 
Load-Date: September 27, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ marginally down on construction
ISEQ marginally down on construction
Business World (Digest) 
September 25, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 188 words
Highlight: Shares on the Dublin market were marginally down this morning.
Body
Shares on the Dublin market were marginally down this morning as construction shares took a beating. 
The ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 117.55 points at 7667.76. 
Financial shares varied in trading. Bank of Ireland remained flat at 11.9 and AIB slipped 5c to 16.13. Anglo Irish 
Bank fell 27c to 12.35 and Irish Life and Permanent was down 10c to 14.98. Shares in the construction sector were 
mainly in the red. CRH fell 71c to 27.4 and Grafton slipped 17c to 8.30. Kingspan slumped 50c to 1598 with 
McInerney decreasing 28c to 1.54 after pre-tax profits at Irish-listed home builder declined by E2m in the first half of 
this year compared to the same period last year as its Irish house completions dropped. Elsewhere, shares at no-
frills airline Ryanair slipped 1c to 4.90 while Irish pharmaceutical firm Elan rose 12c to 14.40. Other notable movers 
include Kerry Group, down 19c to 20.70, C and C down 27c to 6.35; Glanbia, down 2c to 4.25. Meanwhile, shares 
at Independent News and Media fell 7c to 2.95 as telecoms tycoon, Denis O'Brien, bought more shares in 
newspaper publisher, raising his stake to 10.3pc from 9.1pc. 
Load-Date: September 27, 2007
End of Document
Low cost airlines capture 40.2 pct Spanish market share in August
Low cost airlines capture 40.2 pct Spanish market share in August
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 24, 2007 Monday 2:11 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 110 words
Body
Low-cost airlines transported a total of 2.7 mln passengers to Spain in August, up 42.9 pct from a year earlier, and 
representing 40.2 pct of the total passenger arrivals by air, the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism said.
In a statement, the ministry said the no-frills airlines' load factor for the month was 86.2 pct versus the 82.9 pct 
registered by traditional airlines.
Ryanair Holdings, Easyjet PLC and Air Berlin captured more than half of the traffic volume with 52.1 pct, while 
Vueling Airlines SA registered a 75.2 pct year-on-year increase.
Iberia, Lineas Aereas de Espana SA's low cost arm Clickair occupied sixth place with 179,000 passengers.
Load-Date: September 24, 2007
End of Document
Slow sales for Aer Lingus Belfast to London route
Slow sales for Aer Lingus Belfast to London route
Sunday Business Post
September 23, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 254 words
Body
Aer Lingus has sold just 176 seats on its Belfast Aldergrove to London Heathrow route for the first month of 
operation of the new route in January.
A total of 32,364 seats are available on the return route, with three 174-seat aircraft flying three return trips daily.
Ryanair, on the other hand, has managed to sell almost 1,100 seats for its recently-announced service from Belfast 
City airport to Stansted for the same period.
Aer Lingus spokesman Niall Bradley said the reason for the low seat sales was the lack of advertising to date, and 
that passengers travelling to Heathrow ''usually only book two to three weeks in advance''.
' 'We are launching a stg£500,000 billboard, TV and radio campaign in Northern Ireland tomorrow, and we expect 
this to drive up seat sales," Bradley said.
He said 10,000 people had booked seats on the other seven European routes from Belfast. Aer Lingus has had 
more than 1,000 applications for the 100 cabin and flight crew jobs to be created at the new base next year.
The company is currently in talks with the Irish Air Line Pilots Association (IALPA) about the transfer of pilots from 
bases in the Republic.
Pilots no longer have to resign to take up a job at Aldergrove, but have to accept inferior terms and conditions.
The Atlantic Connectivity Alliance of Shannon-based businesses - which was set up to try and persuade Aer Lingus 
to reverse its decision to move the Heathrow service to Belfast - said that the sale of seats from Aldergrove showed 
what a poor commercial decision it was.
Load-Date: September 23, 2007
Slow sales for Aer Lingus Belfast to London route
End of Document
ISEQ closes up after roller coaster week
ISEQ closes up after roller coaster week
Business World (Digest) 
September 21, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 360 words
Highlight: Shares on the Dublin market closed marginally up today
Body
Shares on the Dublin market closed marginally up today after a turbulent week on the Irish stock exchange, buoyed 
by Irish pharmaceutical company Elan, which jumped 5pc to E14.32.
The ISEQ index of Irish shares closed 70.26 points higher at 7864.96. 
Shares at Elan jumped dramatically today after investors sought out a bargain following the market's dramatic 
decline over the past week. 
 The biotech firm recently filed a lawsuit against a unit of Israel's Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, claiming it has 
infringed two US patents. Meanwhile, in the financial sector, Bank of Ireland rose 6c to 12.06 while AIB dropped 25c 
to 17.05. Anglo Irish Bank climbed 44c to 12.91 and Irish Life and Permanent increased 3c to 15.01. Shares in the 
construction sector put in mixed performance. CRH climbed 10c to 28.35 and Grafton rose 13c to 8.30. McInerney 
dropped 4c to 1.75 and Kingspan slipped 13c to 16.77. . Irish Continental Group rose 20c to 25.20 after the 
One51/Doyle consortium upped its offer price for ICG to 25 euro per share, ahead of next week's extraordinary 
general meeting of the ferry company. The consortium, which goes under the name Moonduster, said in a 
statement to the stock exchange today that it had bought another 1.6pc of the company on Thursday at that price, 
bringing its holding to 22pc. Elsewhere, shares at no-frills airline Ryanair dropped 8c to 4.99 while bookmaker 
Paddy Power remained flat at 24.95. The Association of British Bookmakers said today that they are to demand a 
reduction on the amount of money they pay the horse racing industry. Other notable movers include, C and C, up 
49c to 6.57; DCC, up 9c to 20.09; Kerry Group, down 17c to 21.05. Donegal Creameries remained flat at 6.65 after 
the firm announced a 14.4pc rise in interim EPS this morning, on sales growth of 6.6pc. Dairy turnover increased by 
16pc to E27.5 million, while agribusiness was up 15pc to E32.2 million. The company's share of profits from 
associate increased from break-even to E1 million this year. Meanwhile, Belfast-based imaging company Andor 
Technology remained flat at 1.15 after its director and co-founder Hugh Cormican resigned on Thursday. 
ISEQ closes up after roller coaster week
Load-Date: September 25, 2007
End of Document
Iberia mulls handing short-haul routes out of Madrid to Clickair - report
Iberia mulls handing short-haul routes out of Madrid to Clickair - report
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 21, 2007 Friday 8:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 136 words
Body
Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA is looking to hand over its less-profitable, short-haul routes out of Madrid to its 
20-pct owned no frills unit Clickair, El Economista reported, citing unnamed sources close to the matter.
Clickair currently operates out of Barcelona airport.
Iberia's move is an offensive against low cost carriers such as EasyJet and Ryanair which are eating away at the 
flag carrier's market share.
The Spanish flagship is focusing now on more profitable, long-haul routes out of Madrid's Barajas airport.
Industry sources have said that in its 2006-2008 strategic plan, Iberia has already factored in a loss in passenger 
traffic of up to 14 pct in the domestic market.
El Economista carried denials from both Iberia and Clickair that the low-cost carrier could start operating out of 
Barajas airport.
Load-Date: September 21, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair considering legal remedies in row with Aer Lingus , trading in line
Ryanair considering legal remedies in row with Aer Lingus, trading in line
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 20, 2007 Thursday 10:47 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 243 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC said it is considering legal options in its row with Aer Lingus Group PLC about the Irish flag 
carrier's Shannon-Heathrow services as it reported trading in line with expectations.
Ryanair said it is exploring the legal remedies available to it after Aer Lingus refused to grant its request for an 
extraordinary meeting to discuss its plans to axe the services and replace them with Belfast-Heathrow flights.
Describing the refusal as 'unlawful' in a statement accompanying its annual meeting, the no-frills airline said: 'Since 
the directors of Aer Lingus are willing to repeatedly breach their statutory obligations towards their largest 
shareholder, there clearly isn't any influence Ryanair can bring to bear on this profitable route closure.
'Accordingly, we are considering what legal remedies are available to us.'
Ryanair said current trading continues to perform as expected, and advance bookings for the autumn are in line 
with its targets. It said it continues to believe winter yields will be down by between 5-10 pct.
'Accordingly our full year guidance is unchanged,' it said. It added that it expects passenger volumes to grow by 18 
pct to 50 mln passengers and to deliver profit growth of 10 pct, due to the softness in winter yields, rising fuel costs 
and the doubling of passenger charges at London Stansted airport.
Ryanair also said it was talking to Amsterdam Schiphol airport about launching a new Shannon-Amsterdam route.
Load-Date: September 20, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair forecasts 2007 profits up 10 pct, may quit tussle with rival Aer Lingus
Ryanair forecasts 2007 profits up 10 pct, may quit tussle with rival Aer 
Lingus
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 20, 2007 Thursday 6:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 395 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC expects fiscal 2007 profits to rise 10 percent, the airline said Thursday. Europe's no-frills 
leader also signaled it was likely to abandon its latest confrontation with Irish rival Aer Lingus.
Ryanir CEO Michael O'Leary said he expected the airline's passenger load to grow 18 percent to 50 million during 
the April 2007-March 2008 period. But profits would rise just 10 percent, he said, "due to the softness in winter 
yields, rising fuel costs, and the doubling of passenger charges at London Stansted, Ryanair's largest base."
O'Leary, speaking following Ryanair's annual general meeting, said Aer Lingus was behaving illegally by refusing to 
call an emergency meeting of shareholders. Ryanair the biggest holder of Aer Lingus stock with 29.4 percent has 
twice demanded this move since August.
The Ryanair chief said his legal advisers were still mulling further action but would probably give up.
He said Ryanair could call its own rebel meeting of Aer Lingus shareholders. "But even if a motion is passed, it 
seems to us that the (Aer Lingus) directors would ignore it anyway," he said. "We may be better off letting it drop."
Ryanair had sought the meeting to force a vote on Aer Lingus' plans to transfer strategic links with Heathrow, one of 
Europe's busiest airports, from the western Irish airport of Shannon to the British territory of Northern Ireland.
Ryanair argues that the Shannon-Heathrow routes are profitable and, as Aer Lingus' No. 1 investor, wants to 
preserve that profit.
Aer Lingus, which says the Belfast routes will be more profitable, has accused Ryanair of trying to manipulate and 
undermine its strategic decisions. It says Ryanair's attempts at interference violate European Union competition 
law.
Ryanair forecasts 2007 profits up 10 pct, may quit tussle with rival Aer Lingus
Analysts say Ryanair's main motivation in seeking a shareholders' vote on Shannon was to embarrass the Irish 
government, which retained a 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus and opposes Ryanair's simmering campaign to 
acquire Aer Lingus.
The government is facing public anger, particularly in western Ireland, over the surprise Aer Lingus plans to dump 
Shannon in favor of Belfast. But Prime Minister Bertie Ahern says he won't intervene to try to keep Shannon links to 
Heathrow, which business leaders say they need to woo and retain foreign investment.
Ryanair shares fell €0.05 (US$0.07) to €5.07 (US$7.10) on the Irish Stock Exchange.
Load-Date: September 21, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair forecasts 2007 profits up 10 pct, may sue rival Irish airline Aer Lingus
Ryanair forecasts 2007 profits up 10 pct, may sue rival Irish airline Aer 
Lingus
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 20, 2007 Thursday 11:15 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 531 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC, Europe's biggest no-frills airline, said Thursday it expects fiscal 2007 profits to rise 10 
percent and is considering a lawsuit against its Irish rival Aer Lingus.
Ryanair stuck by its previous forecasts for the April 2007-March 2008 period during its annual general meeting at a 
hotel near Dublin Airport.
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said he expected Ryanair's passenger load to grow 18 percent to 50 million over 
the 12-month period, but profits would rise just 10 percent "due to the softness in winter yields, rising fuel costs, and 
the doubling of passenger charges at London Stansted, Ryanair's largest base."
O'Leary said Ryanair was not going to let Aer Lingus get away with refusing to call an emergency shareholders' 
meeting. Aer Lingus has rejected two demands from Ryanair, which is Aer Lingus' largest shareholder with 29.4 
percent.
Ryanair has been demanding the meeting to force a vote on Aer Lingus' plans to transfer strategic links with 
Heathrow, one of Europe's busiest airports, from the western Irish airport of Shannon to the British territory of 
Northern Ireland.
O'Leary says Ryanair wants Aer Lingus to stick with its Shannon-Heathrow services because they are profitable.
Aer Lingus counters that Ryanair is seeking to use its shareholding to manipulate and undermine its main Irish 
competitor. It cites European Union competition law as its reason to refuse Ryanair's request for an extraordinary 
general meeting, which normally would be accepted if the requesting shareholder owns more than 10 percent of a 
company.
O'Leary said Aer Lingus was behaving illegally and a lawsuit was possible.
Ryanair forecasts 2007 profits up 10 pct, may sue rival Irish airline Aer Lingus
"Since the directors of Aer Lingus are willing to repeatedly breach their statutory obligations towards their largest 
shareholder, there clearly isn't any influence that Ryanair can bring to bear on this profitable route closure," he said. 
"Accordingly, we are considering what legal remedies are available to us."
O'Leary said Ryanair also was considering building services to Amsterdam Schiphol Airport, which like Heathrow is 
one of the major European hubs for international connections. Ryanair does not use Heathrow.
Analysts say Ryanair's main motivation in seeking an Aer Lingus shareholders' vote on Shannon is to embarrass 
the Irish government, which has retained a 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus. Ryanair regularly derides the 
government and European Union for allegedly standing in the way of Ryanair's cutthroat brand of competition.
The government is facing public anger, particularly in western Ireland, over the surprise Aer Lingus plans to dump 
Shannon in favor of Belfast. But Prime Minister Bertie Ahern says he won't intervene to try to keep Shannon links to 
Heathrow, which business leaders say they need to woo and retain foreign investment.
Ryanair is already planning to sue EU competition authorities over their June verdict blocking an attempted Ryanair 
takeover of Aer Lingus. Unusually for an airline, Ryanair appears to have money to burn in the courts with more 
than €2 billion (US$2.8 billion) in cash reserves.
Ryanair shares were trading at €5.03 (US$7.04), down €0.09 (US$0.13), in midday trade on the Irish Stock 
Exchange.
Load-Date: September 21, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair forecasts 2007 profits up 10 pct, may sue rival Irish airline Aer Lingus
Ryanair forecasts 2007 profits up 10 pct, may sue rival Irish airline Aer 
Lingus
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 20, 2007 Thursday 2:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 513 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC, Europe's biggest no-frills airline, said Thursday it expects fiscal 2007 profits to rise 10 
percent and is considering a lawsuit against its Irish rival Aer Lingus.
Ryanair stuck by its previous forecasts for the April 2007-March 2008 period during its annual general meeting at a 
hotel near Dublin Airport.
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said he expected Ryanair's passenger load to grow 18 percent to 50 million over 
the 12-month period, but profits would rise just 10 percent "due to the softness in winter yields, rising fuel costs, and 
the doubling of passenger charges at London Stansted, Ryanair's largest base."
O'Leary said Ryanair was not going to let Aer Lingus get away with refusing to call an emergency shareholders' 
meeting. Aer Lingus has rejected two demands from Ryanair, which is Aer Lingus' largest shareholder with 29.4 
percent.
Ryanair has been demanding the meeting to force a vote on Aer Lingus' plans to transfer strategic links with 
Heathrow, one of Europe's busiest airports, from the western Irish airport of Shannon to the British territory of 
Northern Ireland.
O'Leary says Ryanair wants Aer Lingus to stick with its Shannon-Heathrow services because they are profitable.
Aer Lingus counters that Ryanair is seeking to use its shareholding to manipulate and undermine its main Irish 
competitor. It cites European Union competition law as its reason to refuse Ryanair's request for an extraordinary 
general meeting, which normally would be accepted if the requesting shareholder owns more than 10 percent of a 
company.
O'Leary said Aer Lingus was behaving illegally and a lawsuit was possible.
Ryanair forecasts 2007 profits up 10 pct, may sue rival Irish airline Aer Lingus
"Since the directors of Aer Lingus are willing to repeatedly breach their statutory obligations towards their largest 
shareholder, there clearly isn't any influence that Ryanair can bring to bear on this profitable route closure," he said. 
"Accordingly, we are considering what legal remedies are available to us."
O'Leary said Ryanair also was considering building services to Amsterdam Schiphol Airport, which like Heathrow is 
one of the major European hubs for international connections. Ryanair does not use Heathrow.
Analysts say Ryanair's main motivation in seeking an Aer Lingus shareholders' vote on Shannon is to embarrass 
the Irish government, which has retained a 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus. Ryanair regularly derides the 
government and European Union for allegedly standing in the way of Ryanair's cutthroat brand of competition.
The government is facing public anger, particularly in western Ireland, over the surprise Aer Lingus plans to dump 
Shannon in favor of Belfast. But Prime Minister Bertie Ahern says he won't intervene to try to keep Shannon links to 
Heathrow, which business leaders say they need to woo and retain foreign investment.
Ryanair is already planning to sue EU competition authorities over their June verdict blocking an attempted Ryanair 
takeover of Aer Lingus. Unusually for an airline, Ryanair appears to have money to burn in the courts with more 
than 2 billion duros ($2.8 billion) in cash reserves.
Load-Date: September 21, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ closes down as banks slide again
ISEQ closes down as banks slide again
Business World (Digest) 
September 20, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 357 words
Highlight: Irish banks continued their roller coaster week today
Body
Irish banks continued their roller coaster week today, this time plunging rapidly downhill as the great credit crisis 
careered onward.
The ISEQ index closed 170.83 points lower at 7,794.70
The problem this time was big drops on the London market by British banks on the latest developments in the 
Northern Rock story.
 The Newcastle based bank shed another 28pc todau as it emerged that the British government's guarantee to 
depositors is less than complete. Its fall dragged other banking shares with it and, not surprisingly in the current 
jittery mood, the contagion spread across the Irish Sea. Also, rumours about HBOS approaching the Bank of 
England about the availability of funds for its mortgages added to the situation. The result was Irish banks losing 
most of the gains they made on Wednesday after the US Federal Reserve cut its key regulatory rate by 0.5pc. 
Financial shares were all down today. Bank of Ireland dropped 8c to 12.00 while AIB slipped 56c to 17.20. Anglo 
Irish Bank was down 77c to 12.31 and Irish Life and Permanent decreased 38c to 14.80. Shares in the construction 
fared little better. CRH slipped 65c to 28.30 while Grafton dropped 30c to 8.17. McInerney was down 13c to 1.79 
and Kingspan decreased 69c to 16.86. Elsewhere, Kerry Group slipped 61c to 21.22 as it felt the repercussions of 
the row over alleged price fixing in the UK cheese market. The Office of Fair Trading has alleged that a price fixing 
agreement was in place during 2002-3 between the six biggest supermarkets in Britain and a number of butter and 
cheese makers. Other notable movers include DCC, up 27c to 19.87; C and C, down 17c to 6.09; Paddy Power, 
jumped 30c to 24.95. Ryanair was down 8c to 5.04 after shareholders at the no-frills airline's AGM were told 
yesterday that trading in the year so far is in line with expectations but warned that yields in the second half will fall 
significantly. It added that it expects passenger volumes to grow by 18pc to 50 million passengers and to deliver 
profit growth of 10pc, due to the softness in winter yields, rising fuel costs and the doubling of passenger charges at 
London Stansted airport. 
ISEQ closes down as banks slide again
Load-Date: September 24, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair mulling legal options in Aer row
Ryanair mulling legal options in Aer row
Business World (Digest) 
September 20, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 400 words
Highlight: Ryanair said it is considering legal options in its row with Aer Lingus.
Body
Ryanair today said it is considering legal options in its row with Aer Lingus about the airline's Shannon-Heathrow 
services as it reported trading in line with expectations. 
Ryanair said it regretted Aer Lingus' refusal to grant its second request for an extraordinary meeting to discuss its 
plans to axe the services and replace them with Belfast-Heathrow flights. 
Describing the refusal as "unlawful" in a statement accompanying its annual meeting, the no-frills airline 
said: "Since the directors of Aer Lingus are willing to repeatedly breach their statutory obligations towards their 
largest shareholder, there clearly isn't any influence Ryanair can bring to bear on this profitable route closure. 
"Accordingly, we are considering what legal remedies are available to us." Aer Lingus plans to end flights from 
Shannon to Heathrow in January, saying they are its least profitable route. It claims granting the request for a 
meeting would result in a breach of Irish and European Union competition law. Ryanair said it would further expand 
its Shannon base due to current strong forward bookings, with plans to almost double services from the west 
Ireland airport to London Gatwick, Luton and Stansted from 4 to 7 flights daily. The airline said it was planning to 
double its Shannon-Paris services to twice daily next summer and is talking to Amsterdam Schiphol airport to see if 
a viable cost base can be agreed to allow the launch of a low fare Shannon-Amsterdam route. "This winter, Ryanair 
will operate more than 40 daily flights to/from Shannon, connecting Shannon to 30 European destinations," Ryanair 
said. "If Aer Lingus is determined to abandon Shannon and the west of Ireland, then Ryanair will add more flights 
and more low fares." Ryanair holds a 29.4 pct stake in Aer Lingus and recently had its attempt to take over the flag 
carrier blocked by the EU on competition grounds. It said current trading continues to perform as expected, and 
advance bookings for the autumn are in line with its targets. It said it continues to believe winter yields will be down 
by between 5-10 pct. "Accordingly our full year guidance is unchanged," it said. It added that it expects passenger 
volumes to grow by 18 pct to 50 mln passengers and to deliver profit growth of 10 pct, due to the softness in winter 
yields, rising fuel costs and the doubling of passenger charges at London Stansted airport 
Ryanair mulling legal options in Aer row
Load-Date: September 24, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down, as banks take a beating
ISEQ down, as banks take a beating
Business World (Digest) 
September 20, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 167 words
Highlight: Shares on the Dublin market slipped back this morning
Body
Shares on the Dublin market slipped back this morning following the Bank of England's decision to inject £10 billion 
into the money markets in the wake of the Northern Rock banking crisis.
At 12.30pm, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 266.79 points at 7698.74
British members of parliament are likely to question the governor over the bank's handling of the Northern Rock 
crisis and the problems affecting the credit markets.
 Financial shares were all down this morning. Bank of Ireland dropped 36c to 11.72 while AIB slipped 51c to 17.24. 
Anglo Irish Bank was down 78c to 12.30 and Irish Life and Permanent decreased 65c to 14.53. Shares in the 
construction fared little better. CRH slipped 6c to 28.35 while Grafton dropped 32c to 8.15. McInerney was down 5c 
to 1.87 and Kingspan decreased 45c to 17.10. Elsewhere, Kerry Group fell 64c to 21.2 while bookmaker Paddy 
Power was up 5c to 24.70. Other notable movers include Ryanair, down 7c to 5.03, DCC, down 15c to 19.45, C and 
C, down 17c to 6.09. 
Load-Date: September 24, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair AGM told winter yields will fall
Ryanair AGM told winter yields will fall
Business World (Digest) 
September 20, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 114 words
Highlight: Shareholders at Ryanair's AGM were told today that yields in the second half will fall significantly.
Body
Shareholders at Ryanair's AGM were told today that trading in the year so far is in line with expectations but warned 
that yields in the second half will fall significantly.
It said current trading continues to perform as expected, and advance bookings for the autumn are in line with its 
targets but added that it continues to believe winter yields will be down by between 5-10 pct. 
"Accordingly our full year guidance is unchanged," it said.
 It added that it expects passenger volumes to grow by 18pc to 50 million passengers and to deliver profit growth of 
10pc, due to the softness in winter yields, rising fuel costs and the doubling of passenger charges at London 
Stansted airport.
Load-Date: September 24, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ surges 281pts after US Fed cut
ISEQ surges 281pts after US Fed cut
Business World (Digest) 
September 19, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 253 words
Highlight: Shares on the Dublin market shot up this morning.
Body
Shares on the Dublin market, like all European stock markets, shot up this morning after the US Federal Reserve 
gave it a much needed jolt after a week of drastic falls.
The ISEQ index of Irish shares was up 281.15 points, or 3pc to 7934.20 
The US Federal Reserve last night slashed US interest rates by half a percentage point.
 Deirdre Ryan, analyst at Goodbody Stockbrokers said, "with the first downward movement in interest rates in over 
four years, the Fed last night gave the markets exactly what they were looking for with a unanimous 50bps cut in 
the fed funds rate to 4.75pc. The discount rate was also cut by the same margin to 5.25pc. While the Fed had 
alluded to the fact that downside risks to growth had "increased appreciably" at their last gathering, this latest policy 
move highlights the fact that the Fed's concerns now firmly lie with the outlook for growth." Financial shares reaped 
the benefits from the US cut. Bank of Ireland rose 51c to 11.81 and AIB climbed E1.20 to 17.48. Anglo Irish Bank 
was up E1.07 to 13.05 while Irish Life and Permanent shot up 31c to 15.28. Shares in the construction sector also 
put in a solid performance. CRH climbed E1.13 to 28.85 and Kingspan rose E1.03 to 17.34. McInerney was up 11c 
to E1.92 and Grafton soared 27c to 8.61. Elsewhere, shares at bookmaker Paddy Power increased 55c to 24.35 
while no-frill airline Ryanair climbed 13c to 5.07. Other notable movers include Smurfit Kappa, up 34c to 16.29; 
DCC, up 88c to 20.07 and Elan Corporation, up 12c to 13.40. 
Load-Date: September 21, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ closes 4.6pc higher thanks to Fed
ISEQ closes 4.6pc higher thanks to Fed
Business World (Digest) 
September 19, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 460 words
Highlight: European stock markets, including the Dublin market, surged this evening.
Body
European stock markets, including the Dublin market, surged this evening after the US Federal Reserve gave it a 
much-needed jolt after a week of drastic falls.
The ISEQ index of Irish shares closed up 353.85 points or 4.6pc, at 7,965.53. 
The Dublin market climbed dramatically as E3 billion was added to the value of Irish shares thanks to a bigger- 
than- expected rate cut decision by the US Federal Reserve. Deirdre Ryan at Goodbody Stockbrokers said, "with 
the first downward movement in interest rates in over four years, the Fed last night gave the markets exactly what 
they were looking for with a unanimous 50bps cut in the fed funds rate to 4.75pc." Irish economists hailed the cut by 
a half of one percent as an attempt to avoid the risk of a recession in the US. Robbie Kelleher, analyst at Davy 
Research said, "in the six weeks since early August, the Fed has clearly moved from a bias towards inflation risks 
to one where it appears determined to avoid risks of outright recession. It now remains to be seen whether the other 
major Central Banks follow suit." Financial shares reaped the benefits of the Fed cut and recovered radically from 
the Northern Rock debacle. Bank of Ireland rose 79c to 12.09 and AIB climbed E1.47 to 17.75. Anglo Irish Bank 
was up E1.12 to 13.10 while Irish Life and Permanent shot up 23c to 15.20. Shares in the construction sector also 
put in a solid performance. CRH climbed E1.23 to 28.95 and Kingspan rose E1.30 to 17.55. Grafton increased 13c 
to 8.47. McInerney was up 11c to E1.92 even though first half results are to show that a big second-half 
performance is needed. Flor O' Donoghue, analyst at Davy Research said, "we are forecasting that McInerney will 
report H1 diluted adjusted EPS of 4.5c. This will be down on the 5.4c reported for H1 2006. Given that our full-year 
forecast is 29.2c, McInerney will have to deliver a big H2 result in order to meet current expectations. "We expect 
H1 completions in Ireland to fall 21pc. Due to planning delays last year, McInerney had fewer sites open in Ireland 
in H1 this year. In contrast, we expect a strong advance in the UK across every metric, and the H1 results should 
confirm that the group is on track for significant UK expansion this year. With earnings skewed towards H2, 
continued weakness in Irish housing and housing stocks out of favour, McInerney is likely to struggle in the near 
term." Elsewhere, shares at bookmaker Paddy Power increased 85c to 24.65 while no-frill airline Ryanair climbed 
ISEQ closes 4.6pc higher thanks to Fed
18c to 5.12. Other notable movers include Smurfit Kappa, up 24c to 16.19; DCC, up 41c to 19.60 and Elan 
Corporation, up 22c to 13.50. Meanwhile, shares at C and C climbed 32c to 6.26 despite reports that some UK 
pubs have dropped their flagship brand Magners. 
Load-Date: September 21, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to launch 2 new routes from Cork to East Midlands, Glasgow from Dec 13
Ryanair to launch 2 new routes from Cork to East Midlands, Glasgow from 
Dec 13
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 19, 2007 Wednesday 11:06 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 42 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC today announced two new routes from its Cork base to East Midlands and Glasgow airports.
The airline said the new routes would start on Dec 13 and will operate daily, bringing the number of Ryanair 
destinations offered from Cork to six.
Load-Date: September 19, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair launches new route between Malta and Venice Treviso
Ryanair launches new route between Malta and Venice Treviso
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 19, 2007 Wednesday 11:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 47 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC today announced a new route from Malta to Venice Treviso, its 8th new route since starting 
services from Malta in October last year.
With the addition of today's route, Ryanair said it expects to deliver some 300,000 passengers to and from Malta 
over the next year.
Load-Date: September 19, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair unveils two new routes from Cork
Ryanair unveils two new routes from Cork
Business World (Digest) 
September 19, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 125 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced two new routes from its Cork base.
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair today announced two new routes from its Cork base to East Midlands and Glasgow. 
The new routes will start on 13th December and will operate daily, bringing the number of Ryanair destinations 
offered from Cork to 6.
"This expansion will see Ryanair carry over 1 million passengers on its six routes from Cork in 2008, supporting 
1,000 local jobs and generating a visitor spend of E150m," Ryanair's head of communications Peter Sherrard said.
 Meanwhile, the airline also announced a new route from Malta to Venice Treviso, its 8th new route since starting 
services from Malta in October last year. With the addition of today's route, Ryanair said it expects to deliver some 
300,000 passengers to and from Malta over the next year. 
Load-Date: September 21, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair urges Malta for more flights
Ryanair urges Malta for more flights
Business World (Digest) 
September 19, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 135 words
Highlight: Ryanair has urged Malta to open its doors to more no-frills flights.
Body
Ryanair has urged Malta to open its doors to more no-frills flights as it announced a new route from the 
Mediterranean island to Venice. 
The budget carrier said the growth it had achieved in Malta since it began flights from the island's airport last 
October was "just touching the surface of what could be achieved". 
A Ryanair spokeswoman said it needs permission from the Maltese government for every new service. She added 
its ability to operate from the airport is definitely improving but could be better. 
 Ryanair has not put a limit on the number of potential services it may want to run from Malta, the spokeswoman 
said. "The sky's the limit," she said. With the addition of the new route to Venice Treviso, Ryanair said it expects to 
deliver some 300,000 passengers to and from Malta in the next year 
Load-Date: September 21, 2007
End of Document
Irish Ryanair To Launch Treviso-La Valletta Flight
Irish Ryanair To Launch Treviso-La Valletta Flight
ANSA English Corporate Service
September 19, 2007 Wednesday 4:58 PM CET
©Copyright 2007 ANSA All Rights Reserved
Length: 113 words
Dateline: Treviso September 19
Body
(ANSA) - Treviso, September 19 - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair will launch a flight between Treviso, northern Italy, 
and La Valletta, Malta.
The flight will be operated on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. The flights will depart from the Antonio Canova 
airport in Treviso at 1705 and 1900 local time, while the return from La Valletta will depart at 1925 and 2125 local 
time.
Ryanair is the first low-cost company in Europe and operates 553 fights in 26 countries. Until the end of 2008, 
Ryanair will have 163 new Boeing 737-800 aircraft and another 99 will be introduced in the next five years. The 
company has 4,500 employees and expects to service 50 million passengers in 2008.
Notes
Ryanair presented in Lamezia Terme, southern Italy, two new flights connecting Lamezia Terme with Pisa and 
Bergamo, both in the northern part of the country, ANSA reported on August 1, 2007. The flights from Lamezia 
Terme to Pisa and Bergamo will be launched in October 2007. Ryanair currently operates a flight from Lamezia 
Terme to London.
Load-Date: September 19, 2007
End of Document
Budget airline bosses criticize increasingly heavy regulation
Budget airline bosses criticize increasingly heavy regulation
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 18, 2007 Tuesday 4:28 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 649 words
Byline: By JANE WARDELL, AP Business Writer
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Low-cost airlines are unfairly carrying the burden of concerns about the environmental impact of flying, executives 
from budget carriers claimed Tuesday as they criticized increasingly heavy regulation and taxes.
Taxes should be based on the efficiency of planes and the distance traveled rather than being a per-passenger 
duty, said easyJet Chief Executive Andy Harrison, who has led calls for a change to the regulatory system for 
Britain.
Harrison said that most budget carriers were more efficient than the traditional airlines because their fleets were 
newer and more fuel efficient, countering frequent claims that the industry was contributing to climate change by 
encouraging more people to fly.
"Low-cost aviation is being almost demonized," Harrison said at the annual World Low Cost Airlines Congress. "We 
are being charged with destroying the planet."
Tim Jeans, managing director of Monarch's scheduled services, said the industry needed to "separate the science 
from the spin," noting that some critics had called for people to avoid flying altogether.
John Hanlon, secretary general of the European Low Fares Airline Association, said the growth of the low-cost 
industry had opened up air travel "from the prerogative of the wealthy few to something that everybody can 
contemplate."
Low-cost carriers were also broadening the financial community by allowing staff from smaller businesses to travel, 
Hanlon said.
Statistics from the Official Airline Guide show that low-cost flights account for 16 percent of flights and 20 percent of 
all seats worldwide, up from 14 percent and 17 percent a year ago. Budget airlines plan to offer more than 58 
million seats on more than 392,000 flights worldwide this month, compared with 47 million seats on more than 
326,000 flights in September 2006.
Budget airline bosses criticize increasingly heavy regulation
The industry's growth in Europe had been facilitated by deregulation a decade ago, Hanlon said, but tightening 
rules were threatening further growth.
"We need to be vigilant we don't become progressively re-regulated almost by stealth," he said.
However, low-cost airlines have yet to form a consensus on how to tackle green issues.
Harrison acknowledges that global warming is a "clear and present danger" that requires "intelligent debate."
But Ryanair Holdings Group PLC Chief Executive Michael O'Leary has been outspoken in rejecting the notion that 
aircraft are a significant generator of greenhouse gases. He has said power plants are responsible for a quarter of 
the world's carbon emissions while aviation accounts for less than 2 percent.
Harrison said the tax that the British government introduced in February to help compensate for damage to the 
climate from carbon emissions, which imposes a duty on individual passengers, should be scrapped.
The duty, or APD, is not imposed on cargo flights or private jets and ignores the load factor and the aircraft type.
"You pay the same APD whether flying on new easyJet planes or older Alitalia aircraft," Harrison said. "You pay the 
same whether the aircraft is 80 percent full or empty."
However, Virgin Atlantic Airways has said it wants to retain the APD for short-haul flights, and British Airways PLC 
wants to use the duty to offset carbon emissions.
Harrison also supports an EU plan for airlines to join an emissions trading system.
The United States has alleged that such a plan is incompatible with international aviation rules if applied to all air 
flights in and out of Europe. U.S. officials warned that they could approve the plan only if it was limited to airlines 
flying within Europe.
Harrison has said that easyJet would support it only if the plan included all flights in and out of Europe.
Hanlon said that around 12 percent of emissions in the European Union could be cut further with consolidation of 
traffic control.
More than 130 airlines are meeting in London over two days to discuss a range of issues from regulation to fuel 
prices.
Load-Date: September 19, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair predicts that low-cost fares will fall further in coming years
Ryanair predicts that low-cost fares will fall further in coming years
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 18, 2007 Tuesday 4:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 455 words
Byline: By JANE WARDELL, AP Business Writer
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Low-cost airfares will only get cheaper in the coming years, budget carrier Ryanair Holdings PLC forecast Tuesday, 
predicting a 5 percent to 10 percent drop in its own average fare price this year.
But Ryanair Chief Operating Officer Michael Cawley, responding to comments from his own chief executive, 
Michael O'Leary, that the airline was considering a long-haul service, said that would happen "not now and maybe 
not ever."
Cawley said fares had to come down further for the budget airline to continue to grow.
"Our average fares are set to drop between 5 to 10 percent this year," he said in a speech at the annual World Low 
Cost Airlines Congress. Fares could drop by another 5 percent next year, he added.
Irish Ryanair, which has its major hub at Stansted Airport in London, is Europe's largest budget airline by 
passengers carried and has the lowest cost base among its rivals.
Cawley said the airline had wanted to emulate the success of Southwest Airlines Co. in the United States, saying 
that both the regulatory climate and the travel opportunities were more beneficial for growth in Europe.
"Who wants to go to Boise, Idaho, when you can go to Krakow, to Prague," he said. "The midweek break market, or 
even the weekend break market, doesn't exist in the United States."
Ryanair already flies to 150 airports around Europe and Cawley said the carrier was in talks with 150 more, pointing 
out that it still does not fly to six EU countries.
Cawley also said that Ryanair retained some hope that it could eventually succeed in buying Aer Lingus Group 
PLC, the Irish rival in which it has built a 29.4 percent stake, after failing to close a hostile takeover bid.
Ryanair is now Aer Lingus' biggest shareholder, ahead of the Irish government with just over 25.3 percent, and has 
begun to try to enforce change at the carrier.
Ryanair predicts that low-cost fares will fall further in coming years
Aer Lingus on Monday rejected Ryanair's calls for an extraordinary general meeting for shareholders to vote on 
plans to retain its route from Shannon in western Ireland to London Heathrow.
"Aer Lingus have wonderful opportunities if we could get our hands on it," said Cawley.
However, he rejected suggestions by O'Leary that Ryanair is considering launching a separate airline that would fly 
long-haul between Europe and the United States around the turn of the decade.
O'Leary told trade magazine Flight International in April shortly after the European Union approved an aviation deal 
with the United States to open up the restricted routes to new rivals that the new airline could fly to five or six U.S. 
cities from European bases and offer one-way fares as low as $12.
Cawley put those comments down to the maverick nature of the Ryanair CEO, saying that high aircraft prices ruled 
out long-haul services.
Load-Date: September 19, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair predicts that low-cost fares will fall further in coming years
Ryanair predicts that low-cost fares will fall further in coming years
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 18, 2007 Tuesday 3:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 457 words
Byline: By JANE WARDELL, AP Business Writer
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Low-cost airfares will only get cheaper in the coming years, budget carrier Ryanair Holdings PLC forecast Tuesday, 
predicting a 5 percent to 10 percent drop in its own average fare price this year.
Ryanair Chief Operating Officer Michael Cawley also dismissed comments from his own Chief Executive Michael 
O'Leary that the airline was considering a long-haul service, saying that would happen "not now and maybe not 
ever."
Cawley said that fares had to come down further for the budget airline to continue to grow.
"Our average fares are set to drop between 5 to 10 percent this year," he said in a speech at the annual World Low 
Cost Airlines Congress. Fares could drop by another 5 percent next year, he added.
Irish Ryanair, which has its major hub at Stansted Airport in London, is Europe's largest budget airline by 
passengers carried and has the lowest cost base among its rivals.
Cawley said the airline had wanted to emulate the success of Southwest Airlines Co. in the United States, saying 
that both the regulatory climate and the travel opportunities were more beneficial for growth in Europe.
"Who wants to go to Boise, Idaho, when you can go to Krakow, to Prague," he said. "The midweek break market, or 
even the weekend break market, doesn't exist in the United States."
Ryanair already flies to 150 airports around Europe and Cawley said the carrier was in talks with 150 more, pointing 
out that it still does not fly to six EU countries.
Cawley also said that Ryanair retained some hope that it could eventually succeed in buying Aer Lingus Group 
PLC, the Irish rival in which it has built a 29.4 percent stake after failing to close a hostile takeover bid.
Ryanair is now Aer Lingus' biggest shareholder, ahead of the Irish government with just over 25.3 percent, and has 
begun to try to enforce change at the carrier.
Ryanair predicts that low-cost fares will fall further in coming years
Aer Lingus on Monday rejected Ryanair's calls for an extraordinary general meeting for shareholders to vote on 
plans to retain its route from Shannon in western Ireland to London Heathrow.
"Aer Lingus have wonderful opportunities if we could get our hands on it," said Cawley.
However, he rejected suggestions by O'Leary that Ryanair is considering launching a separate airline that would fly 
long-haul between Europe and the United States around the turn of the decade.
O'Leary told trade magazine Flight International in April shortly after the European Union approved an aviation deal 
with the United States to open up the restricted routes to new rivals that the new airline could fly to five or six U.S. 
cities from European bases and offer one-way fares as low as US$12 (€8.94).
Cawley put those comments down to the maverick nature of the Ryanair CEO, saying that high aircraft prices ruled 
out long-haul services.
Load-Date: September 19, 2007
End of Document
Budget airline bosses criticize increasingly heavy regulation
Budget airline bosses criticize increasingly heavy regulation
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 18, 2007 Tuesday 5:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 450 words
Byline: By JANE WARDELL, AP Business Writer
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Low-cost airlines are unfairly carrying the burden of concerns about the environmental impact of flying, executives 
from budget carriers claimed Tuesday as they criticized increasingly heavy regulation and taxes.
Taxes should be based on the efficiency of planes and the distance traveled rather than being a per-passenger 
duty, said easyJet Chief Executive Andy Harrison, who has led calls for a change to the regulatory system for 
Britain.
Harrison said that most budget carriers were more efficient than the traditional airlines because their fleets were 
newer and more fuel efficient, countering frequent claims that the industry was contributing to climate change by 
encouraging more people to fly.
"Low-cost aviation is being almost demonized," Harrison said at the annual World Low Cost Airlines Congress. "We 
are being charged with destroying the planet."
Budget airlines plan to offer more than 58 million seats on more than 392,000 flights worldwide this month, 
compared with 47 million seats on more than 326,000 flights in September 2006, statistics from the Official Airline 
Guide show.
The industry's growth in Europe had been facilitated by deregulation a decade ago, said John Hanlon, secretary 
general of the European Low Fares Airline Association, but tightening rules were threatening further growth.
However, low-cost airlines have yet to form a consensus on how to tackle green issues.
Ryanair Holdings Group PLC Chief Executive Michael O'Leary has been outspoken in rejecting the notion that 
aircraft are a significant generator of greenhouse gases. He has said power plants are responsible for a quarter of 
the world's carbon emissions while aviation accounts for less than 2 percent.
Harrison said the tax that the British government introduced in February to help compensate for damage to the 
climate from carbon emissions, which imposes a duty on individual passengers, should be scrapped.
Budget airline bosses criticize increasingly heavy regulation
The duty, or APD, is not imposed on cargo flights or private jets and ignores the load factor and the aircraft type.
"You pay the same APD whether flying on new easyJet planes or older Alitalia aircraft," Harrison said. "You pay the 
same whether the aircraft is 80 percent full or empty."
However, Virgin Atlantic Airways has said it wants to retain the APD for short-haul flights, and British Airways PLC 
wants to use the duty to offset carbon emissions.
Harrison also supports an EU plan for airlines to join an emissions trading system.
The United States has alleged that such a plan is incompatible with international aviation rules if applied to all air 
flights in and out of Europe. U.S. officials warned that they could approve the plan only if it was limited to airlines 
flying within Europe.
Load-Date: September 19, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus refuses to dance to Ryanair 's tune on EGM
Aer Lingus refuses to dance to Ryanair's tune on EGM
Financial Times (London, England)
September 18, 2007 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES UK; Pg. 24
Length: 318 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE
Body
Aer Lingus has rejected the latest attempt by Ryanair to requisition an extraordinary meeting of Aer Lingus 
shareholders.
The defiant stance in effect leaves Ryanair, Europe's leading low-cost carrier and the biggest Aer Lingus 
shareholder, withlittle option but to drop its campaign against its rival or escalate the action by starting legal 
proceedings.
The latest row between the two carriers started last month, when Ryanair stepped into the political controversy over 
its rival's decision to withdraw from the route between Shannon in the west of Ireland and London Heathrow. It 
called for the EGM in an attempt to overturn the decision and influence other route changes.
Aer Lingus said Ryanair was seeking to "interfere with and frustrate the commercial and operational performance" 
of the group. It had received "strong legal advice" that Ryanair's proposed EGM resolution would result in an 
infringement of European and Irish competition law.
John Sharman, Aer Lingus chairman, said the airline would "act in accordance with the law and will not dance to the 
tune of our competitor".
He said Aer Lingus would not be "deflected by the self-serving agenda of a competitor with whom we fight tooth and 
nail for business every single day."
Ryanair said last night it had received the Aer Lingus statement and was "considering its contents".
Aer Lingus last year defeated a hostile takeover bid by Ryanair, which in recent weeks has built up its stake in Aer 
Lingus to 29.4 per cent, overtaking the Irish government.
It has previously rejected Aer Lingus's claim that its EGM proposal would breach competition law as "absurd."
Aer Lingus refuses to dance to Ryanair 's tune on EGM
Jim Callaghan, Ryanair company secretary, said two weeks ago that the Aer Lingus board had "no legal right" to 
reject Ryanair's request for an EGM given that it held a stake of more than 10 per cent. Ryanair said then that it 
would prefer to resolve the issue without recourse to the courts.
Load-Date: September 17, 2007
End of Document
Vertex Pharma, Ryanair and IAC/InterActiveCorp. fall, drag down Nasdaq 100
Vertex Pharma, Ryanair and IAC/InterActiveCorp. fall, drag down Nasdaq 100
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 17, 2007 Monday 8:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 220 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Nasdaq 100 fell Monday, dragged down by broader market concerns, with Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. among 
the decliners as investors grew concerned the company is facing increasing competition.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, fell 
17.74 points to 1,983.08. The broader Nasdaq composite sank 20.52 points to finish at 2,581.66.
The broader market was skittish Monday, as investors await a Tuesday decision from the Federal Reserve on the 
key funds rate. The market expects the central bank to cut rates.
Vertex Pharmaceuticals shares lost $2.01, or 5 percent, to $38.39 after a Morgan Stanley analyst said competition 
may be increasing.
Shares of Irish airline operator Ryanair Holdings plc fell $1.97, or 4.9 percent, to $38.68 on an analyst downgrade.
IAC/InterActiveCorp. shares declined 80 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $27.12.
On the rising side, Lam Research Corp. shares added $1.12, or 2.2 percent, to end at $51.50. A Banc of America 
Securities analyst, in a client note, said the chipmaker reiterated its full-year outlook on sales, shipment volumes 
and market share gains at a Banc of America industry conference.
Casino and resort operator Wynn Resorts Ltd. shares rose $2.37 to end at $142.23.
Sprint Nextel Corp. shares added 27 cents to $17.65.
Load-Date: September 18, 2007
End of Document
Ireland 's Aer Lingus airline rejects 2nd demand from rival Ryanair for shareholders meeting
Ireland's Aer Lingus airline rejects 2nd demand from rival Ryanair for 
shareholders meeting
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 17, 2007 Monday 2:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 537 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Aer Lingus Group PLC, facing pressure from its major shareholder and competitor Ryanair for an extraordinary 
general meeting, rejected those demands Monday and declared it would not dance to Ryanair's tune.
Aer Lingus said Ryanair was seeking to break Irish and European Union competition laws by using its shareholding 
to damage its major Irish competitor.
Ryanair says it wants Aer Lingus not to switch key air links with Heathrow, Europe's busiest airport, from the 
western Irish airport of Shannon to the British territory of Northern Ireland.
Irish business leaders also oppose the move, planned for mid-January, arguing it will undermine western Ireland's 
ability to attract and keep foreign companies. Aer Lingus says Northern Ireland traffic to Heathrow will be more 
profitable.
"The board of Aer Lingus will act in accordance with the law and will not dance to the tune of our competitor," said 
the airline's chairman, John Sharman. "We will continue to progress our stated business strategy in the interests of 
our shareholders and will not be deflected by the self-serving agenda of a competitor with whom we fight tooth and 
nail for business every single day."
Ryanair demanded an emergency shareholders' meeting and threatened to call its own meeting of shareholders 
and bill Aer Lingus directors for the cost, if refused. Ryanair declined immediate comment Monday.
Aer Lingus last month rejected an initial Ryanair call for a shareholders' meeting to defend the Shannon-Heathrow 
services. It told Ryanair in a letter Monday that nothing in its legal position, citing competition laws, had changed.
Analysts say Ryanair's push for a shareholder vote on the Shannon issue is designed in part to embarrass the Irish 
government, which has faced widespread criticism for its decision to privatize a profitable national airline and 
expose it to a possible Ryanair takeover.
Ireland 's Aer Lingus airline rejects 2nd demand from rival Ryanair for shareholders meeting
Ryanair launched a surprise bid for Aer Lingus less than a week after the government sold shares in the state-
owned airline on the British and Irish stock exchanges in September 2006.
The government kept a 25 percent stake, it said, to protect Aer Lingus from a takeover and to defend routes 
deemed of national economic interest, such as Shannon-Heathrow links. However, since Aer Lingus announced its 
plan to dump those routes, the government has declined to intervene. A shareholders' meeting with the government 
abstaining would highlight that inaction.
Ryanair says it holds 29.4 percent of Aer Lingus shares. But the government and employee-controlled trusts 
represent about 45 percent of shareholders, making it difficult for Ryanair to reach the 50 percent ownership 
threshold needed for a successful takeover.
In June, meanwhile, EU competition authorities rejected Ryanair's business plans for a takeover as likely to create 
an Irish monopoly, a verdict that Ryanair has vowed to appeal.
Irish law allows any shareholder with at least a 10 percent stake in a publicly listed company to convene an 
emergnecy shareholders' meeting even without support from the company's board. But even if a majority of 
shareholders were to vote against the Aer Lingus plans to switch Heathrow routes to Northern Ireland, the directors 
could choose to ignore it.
Load-Date: September 18, 2007
End of Document
Ireland 's Aer Lingus airline rejects 2nd demand from rival Ryanair for shareholders meeting
Ireland's Aer Lingus airline rejects 2nd demand from rival Ryanair for 
shareholders meeting
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 17, 2007 Monday 10:38 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 589 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Aer Lingus Group PLC, facing pressure from its major shareholder and competitor Ryanair for an extraordinary 
general meeting, rejected those demands Monday and declared it would not dance to Ryanair's tune.
Aer Lingus said Ryanair was seeking to break Irish and European Union competition laws by using its shareholding 
to damage its major Irish competitor.
Ryanair says it wants Aer Lingus not to switch key air links with Heathrow, Europe's busiest airport, from the 
western Irish airport of Shannon to the British territory of Northern Ireland.
Irish business leaders also oppose the move, planned for mid-January, arguing it will undermine western Ireland's 
ability to attract and keep foreign companies. Aer Lingus says Northern Ireland traffic to Heathrow will be more 
profitable.
"The board of Aer Lingus will act in accordance with the law and will not dance to the tune of our competitor," said 
the airline's chairman, John Sharman. "We will continue to progress our stated business strategy in the interests of 
our shareholders and will not be deflected by the self-serving agenda of a competitor with whom we fight tooth and 
nail for business every single day."
Ryanair demanded an EGM last week and threatened to call its own rebel meeting of shareholders, and bill Aer 
Lingus directors for the cost, if refused. The no-frills airline declined immediate comment Monday.
Aer Lingus last month rejected an initial Ryanair call for an EGM to defend the Shannon-Heathrow services. It told 
Ryanair in a letter Monday that nothing in its legal position, citing competition laws, had changed.
"Aer Lingus will not be a party to the concertation of activity or to the unlawful disclosure of competitively sensitive 
information," the letter said. "Aer Lingus will not engage in such illegal conduct, which would expose Aer Lingus and 
Ryanair and their directors to the risk of both civil and criminal liability."
Ireland 's Aer Lingus airline rejects 2nd demand from rival Ryanair for shareholders meeting
Analysts say Ryanair's push for a shareholder vote on the Shannon issue is designed in part to embarrass the Irish 
government, which has faced widespread criticism for its decision to privatize a profitable national airline and 
expose it to a possible Ryanair takeover.
Ryanair launched a surprise bid for Aer Lingus less than a week after the government floated the previously state-
owned airline on the British and Irish stock exchanges in September 2006.
The government kept a 25 percent share, it said, to protect Aer Lingus from a takeover and to defend routes 
deemed of national economic interest, such as Shannon-Heathrow links. However, since Aer Lingus announced its 
plan to dump those routes, the government has declined to intervene and an EGM, with the government abstaining, 
would highlight that inaction.
Ryanair today says it holds 29.4 percent of Aer Lingus shares. But the government and employee-controlled trusts, 
both opposed to Ryanair's aggression, represent about 45 percent of shareholders, making it difficult for Ryanair to 
reach the 50 percent ownership threshold needed for a successful takeover.
In June, meanwhile, EU competition authorities rejected Ryanair's business plans for a takeover as likely to create 
an Irish monopoly, a verdict that Ryanair has vowed to appeal.
Irish law allows any shareholder with at least a 10 percent stake in a publicly listed company to convene an EGM, 
even without support from the company's board. But even if a majority of shareholders were to vote against the Aer 
Lingus plans to switch Heathrow routes to Northern Ireland, the directors could choose to ignore it.
Load-Date: September 18, 2007
End of Document
Nasdaq 100 Leaders & Laggards: VRTX
Nasdaq 100 Leaders & Laggards: VRTX
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 17, 2007 Monday 8:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 220 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Nasdaq 100 fell Monday, dragged down by broader market concerns, with Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. among 
the decliners as investors grew concerned the company is facing increasing competition.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, fell 
17.74 points to 1,983.08. The broader Nasdaq composite sank 20.52 points to finish at 2,581.66.
The broader market was skittish Monday, as investors await a Tuesday decision from the Federal Reserve on the 
key funds rate. The market expects the central bank to cut rates.
Vertex Pharmaceuticals shares lost $2.01, or 5 percent, to $38.39 after a Morgan Stanley analyst said competition 
may be increasing.
Shares of Irish airline operator Ryanair Holdings plc fell $1.97, or 4.9 percent, to $38.68 on an analyst downgrade.
IAC/InterActiveCorp. shares declined 80 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $27.12.
On the rising side, Lam Research Corp. shares added $1.12, or 2.2 percent, to end at $51.50. A Banc of America 
Securities analyst, in a client note, said the chipmaker reiterated its full-year outlook on sales, shipment volumes 
and market share gains at a Banc of America industry conference.
Casino and resort operator Wynn Resorts Ltd. shares rose $2.37 to end at $142.23.
Sprint Nextel Corp. shares added 27 cents to $17.65.
Load-Date: September 18, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down 4pc as banks fail to recover
ISEQ down 4pc as banks fail to recover
Business World (Digest) 
September 17, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 246 words
Highlight: Shares on the Dublin market slumped by over 4pc this morning.
Body
Shares on the Dublin market slumped by over 4pc in midday trade as the banks continue to suffer following the bail-
out of Northern Rock last week.
At 12.00pm, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 355.44 at 7465.88. 
Financial shares were the worst hit as Bank of Ireland slumped 81c to 11.19 while Anglo Irish Bank dropped E1.23 
to 11.55. AIB fell E1.20 to 16.20 and Irish Life and Permanent slipped to 73c to 14.80.
 Almost three billion euro was wiped off the value of Irish shares on Friday as financial shares went into meltdown 
on fears over financing for banks. The falls in Dublin were much steeper than elsewhere in Europe due to it being 
top heavy with banks. The Irish banks ranked amongst the biggest losers in the E300 Banks Index on Friday as 
news of NRK's emergency line of funding from the Bank of England weighed heavily on the sector. In the 
construction sector, McInerney fell 1c to 2.00 while Kingspan dropped E1.20 to 15.88. CRH slipped 1.28 to 26.36 
and Grafton slumped 57c to 8.42. Other notable movers included Icon, which dropped 75c to 35.00 and no-frills 
airline Ryanair falling 18c to 4.87. Elsewhere, Paddy Power, down 28c to 23.90; Smurfit Kappa, down 17c to 15.33 
and Iaws Group, down 13c to 14.55. Shares at Independent News and Media were down 18c to 3.15. The company 
is due to release its interim results tomorrow. In its pre-close statement on June 29th, the company said that it 
expected revenues to be ahead by approximately 3pc year-on-year. 
Load-Date: September 19, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus rejects Ryanair 2nd EGM call
Aer Lingus rejects Ryanair 2nd EGM call
Business World (Digest) 
September 17, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 287 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus has rejected a second EGM call from Ryanair.
Body
Aer Lingus has thrown out a second request from no-frills airline Ryanair to convene an extraordinary shareholders 
meeting to force the carrier to retain its Shannon-Heathrow services. 
Aer Lingus said in a statement that it had written to Ryanair rejecting the request, saying it believes the no-frills 
carrier wanted to "interfere with and frustrate the commercial and operational performance of Ryanair's most 
resilient competitor." 
Aer Lingus is planning to end flights from Shannon to Heathrow in January, saying they are its least profitable route. 
 However, Ryanair, which holds a 29.4pc stake in Aer Lingus, said in a notice of requisition of a meeting on Sept 4 
that it believes the carrier should keep the profitable services "in view of the recently announced 58 pct decline in 
the company's interim profits." Aer Lingus said in today's statement that its board had received strong legal advice 
that Ryanair's latest resolution was no different to its previous request for a meeting, in that it would result in an 
infringement of Irish and European Union competition law. The carrier's chairman, John Sharman, said: "The board 
of Aer Lingus will act in accordance with the law and will not dance to the tune of our competitor." Aer Lingus plans 
to switch the Heathrow services to its new base at Belfast, which begins operations in December. The services from 
Belfast to Heathrow are due to start on Jan 14. The Aer Lingus decision has sparked controversy in the Irish 
republic, with opponents of the move saying it could damage the economy in the Shannon region. Ryanair holds a 
29.4pc stake in Aer Lingus and recently had its attempt to take over the airline blocked by the European Union on 
competition grounds 
Load-Date: September 19, 2007
Aer Lingus rejects Ryanair 2nd EGM call
End of Document
Nasdaq 100 weighed down by Ryanair Holdings , IAC/InterActiveCorp, Vertex Pharmaceuticals
Nasdaq 100 weighed down by Ryanair Holdings, IAC/InterActiveCorp, Vertex 
Pharmaceuticals
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 17, 2007 Monday 4:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 145 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Shares of the Nasdaq 100 declined in midday trading on Monday, with Ryanair Holdings PLC among the decliners.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, 
declined 23.49 points to 1,977.33. The broader Nasdaq composite lost 24.55 points to 2,577.63.
An analyst downgrade sent shares of airline operator Ryanair Holdings PLC down $1.81, or 4.5 percent, to $38.84.
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. declined $1.56, or 3.9 percent, to $38.84, after an analyst said competition may be 
increasing.
Internet conglomerate IAC/InterActiveCorp declined 97 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $26.95.
On the gaining side, Cephalon Inc. rose $1.11 to $73.35, after the biopharmaceutical company said it made some 
changes to the label for its drug Provigil.
Wynn Resorts Ltd. gained $1.54 to $141.10.
Sprint Nextel Corp. gained 3 cents to $17.41.
Load-Date: September 18, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus rebuffs Ryanair 's request for shareholders meet over Shannon flights
Aer Lingus rebuffs Ryanair's request for shareholders meet over Shannon 
flights
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 17, 2007 Monday 11:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 92 words
Body
Aer Lingus Group PLC said it had rejected a second request from Ryanair Holdings to convene an extraordinary 
shareholders meeting to force the Irish flag carrier to retain its Shannon-Heathrow services.
Aer Lingus said in a statement that it was rejecting the request, saying it believes the no-frills carrier's aim is to 
'interfere with and frustrate the commercial and operational performance of Ryanair's most resilient competitor.'
Aer Lingus is planning to end flights from Shannon to Heathrow in January, saying they are its least profitable route.
Load-Date: September 17, 2007
End of Document
Italy's Di Pietro asks Alitalia to reconsider Malpensa downsizing
Italy's Di Pietro asks Alitalia to reconsider Malpensa downsizing
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 17, 2007 Monday 8:34 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 93 words
Body
Infrastructure minister Antonio Di Pietro asked Alitalia SpA to reconsider plans to reduce activities at the Milan 
airport of Malpensa, where he said 20 bln eur have already been invested.
In a interview with the La Repubblica daily, the minister said he would not oppose putting Alitalia into bankruptcy 
and that the issue of job cuts has to be addressed in order to save the airline.
Di Pietro also welcomed Ryanair Holdings PLC's 1 bln usd proposal to set up operations at Malpensa and the 
possibility that Italian airline Air One might tie up with Alitalia.
Load-Date: September 17, 2007
End of Document
Broker Roundup: Northern Rock under the hammer
Broker Roundup: Northern Rock under the hammer
Citywire
September 17, 2007 Monday 9:08 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 392 words
Body
JP Morgan cuts valuation of Northern Rock to 370p from 500p, Panmure Gordon has a sell for Northern Rock 
cutting target to 300p from 600p and Merrill Lynch downgrades the troubled mortgage lender to neutral from buy.
Among other recommendations:
* Citigroup downgrades Alliance & Leicester and Bradford & Bingley to sell from hold, Holidaybreak to hold from buy 
and upgrades Reed Elsevier to buy from hold The broker initiates coverage of Hikma Pharmaceuticals with a hold 
and 640p target and has a hold on Lonmin cutting target to £37 from £43
* Altium upgrades RM to hold from reduce with a 185p target
* Credit Suisse has an overweight for SABMiller, raising target to £15.50 from £15.20, has a neutral and 215p target 
for Kingfisher and a neutral and 300p target for William Morrison
* Merrill Lynch downgrades Minerva to sell from buy, Hammerson, British Land, Land Securities, Great Portland 
and Derwent London to neutral from buy, Workspace to sell from neutral and Alliance and Leicester to sell from 
neutral.The broker reiterates buys for Big Yellow, Unite and Development Securities
* Lehman Bros downgrades BAT to underweight from equal-weight
* ING upgrades SABMiller to buy from hold
* UBS downgrades Ryanair to neutral from buy with a 6 target and has a buy and 490p target for Paragon
* SG Securities downgrades William Morrison to sell from buy with a 248p target and Debenhams to hold from buy 
113p
* Seymour Pierce has buys for Albemarle & Bond, Burren Energy, Griffin Mining and Inspace and has an 
outperform for Laura Ashley
* Landsbanki has a buy and 400p target for Detica, a hold for Akers Biosciences, a reduce for Carnival, a buy for 
City of London, a buy for Gyrus, a reduce for Mitchells & Butlers, a buy for SciSys and a buy for Unite
* KBC Peel Hunt has holds for Gyrus Group, Mitchells & Butlers and Unite
Broker Roundup: Northern Rock under the hammer
* Blue Oar Securities has a buy and 180p target for Colt Telecom
* Panmure Gordon has a buy and 232p target for Dolphin Capital, a buy and 79p target for Humberts, a buy and 
400p target for Interior Services, a buy and 925p target for Luminar, a buy and 276p target for Macro 4, a hold for 
Mitchells and Butlers, cutting target to 650p from 675p, a buy for Northern Foods, raising target to 140p from 125p, 
a buy and 69p target for Oxford Biomedica and in a note on software and IT services the broker has buys for Coda 
Dicom and Aveva
Load-Date: September 20, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus and ICG to lose out on Iseq
Aer Lingus and ICG to lose out on Iseq
Sunday Business Post
September 16, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: THE MARKET
Length: 321 words
Body
The Iseq weightings of Aer Lingus and Irish Continental Group are likely to fall this week, when the Irish Stock 
Exchange publishes revised figures governing the make-up of the index.
The exchange has undertaken to review the constituents of the index on a quarterly basis, following the introduction 
of a new calculation to determine the importance of individual companies within the Iseq. The calculation is based 
on companies' free floats.
Aer Lingus is expected to see a slight reduction in its Iseq weighting. Its free float - the percentage of its shares that 
are considered to be available for active trading- has recently fallen, as a result of Ryanair's move to increase its 
stake in the former state airline from 25.1 per cent to 29.4 per cent since the index components were last assessed.
ICG, meanwhile, is expected to see its free float substantially reduced, following a move by property developer 
Liam Carroll to build a stake of around 20 per cent during the summer.
Carroll's intervention means that around 60 per cent of the company is no longer considered as available for 
trading, because a further 40 per cent is in the hands of Aella, the management consortium headed by ICG chief 
executive Eamonn Rothwell, and Moonduster, the group comprising One 51 and the Doyle shipping group, which 
have launched rival takeover bids for the company.
Packaging group Smurfit Kappa could see its Iseq weighting increase, as the exchange may decide to allocate a 
higher free float to the company.
Smurfit Kappa had been allocated a relatively low free float earlier this year, thanks to the presence of three major 
shareholders - private equity groups Madison Dearborn, CVC and Cinven - which had committed to hold their 
shares for six months after the group's flotation in March.
That lock-in period came to an end this weekend, however, which could result in their shareholdings being 
reclassified as available for trading.
Aer Lingus and ICG to lose out on Iseq
Load-Date: September 16, 2007
End of Document
Holiday Clinic: French lessons for Christmas
Holiday Clinic: French lessons for Christmas
Sunday Business Post
September 16, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 719 words
Body
THE CANDIDATES: Philip and Chris (in their 50s) and their son Paul (18)
THE CHALLENGE: a Christmas holiday in a French-speaking area for a Leaving Certificate student trying to 
practise the language.
THE REQUIREMENTS: Philip and Chris want to take their son away for a Christmas holiday but, to make it 
educational, they want it to be in a French-speaking area. Philip writes: ''We'd like somewhere on a beach but not 
too touristy. Self-catering is probably the best arrangement."
OPTION ONE - LA ROCHELLE, FRANCE
La Rochelle is one of the most attractive and unspoiled seaside towns in France. In the 1970s, its historic 17th 
century centre and waterfront were taken from developers and its streets were freed of traffic.
The main part of the town is the Vieux Port, where pleasure boats are moored in front of two impressive towers 
guarding the entrance to the port.
Leading north from the Porte de la Grosse Horloge, the Rue du Palais runs towards the cathedral, and several of 
the museums are located on Rue Thiers.
Between the harbour and the Port des Minimes (a new marina development two kilometres south of the town 
centre), there are several museums and a large frigate (permanently moored) providing some insight into the town's 
seagoing past.
Des Minimes itself was an important shipping base for the area and it is now the largest yachting centre on 
Europe's Atlantic coast. There is a nearby beach which is popular with locals.
Holiday Clinic: French lessons for Christmas
Self-catering accommodation is available in the area, with two or three-bedroom cottages a convenient and 
comfortable option for the family.
Cost: flights from Dublin to La Rochelle cost from&euro;60 with Ryanair. Dates around Christmas may cost more, 
but the precise fares have not yet been released. Self-catering accommodation in the area costs from &euro;225 
per week.
Contact: www.ryanair.com for flights,            www.travel-library.com for accommodation.
OPTION TWO - AGADIR, MOROCCO
Agadir has become Morocco's most popular resort, mainly due to its location on ten kilometres of sandy beach on 
the Atlantic coast.
The family can relax on the long stretch of warm sandy beach and then explore the old fishing port and souks 
steeped in local flavour, giving Paul a chance to practise his haggling skills in French.
While it is unquestionably North African, Morocco also exudes a distinctly European air, mixing Arabic charm with 
French colonialism and cosmopolitan culture.
This mix is also seen in its landscape, where sandy beaches meet rocky coasts, and the Sahara desert dunes 
stand in the shadow of the snow-peaked Atlas mountains.
Active visitors can enjoy water sports or a round of golf on one of the area's superb courses. The evenings are 
taken up at countless pavement cafes, fine restaurants or, for a more lively night, the local casinos.
The Golden Beach Aparthotel is situated in Founty, the extended tourist area of Agadir. It is a short walk from the 
beach, restaurants and shops.
Cost: flights and one week's accommodation in the Golden Beach Aparthotel cost from &euro;689 per person from 
December 22.
Contact: www.sunway.ie
OPTION THREE - MONTREAL, CANADA
If the family can forgo the beach aspect of their holiday, Montreal is a great destination for those wishing to practise 
French in an entertaining environment.
It should be noted there are some differences between the French spoken here and that spoken in France. Situated 
on an island, the capital of Quebec is sandwiched between the Riviere des Prairies and the St Lawrence River.
Old Montreal, which was the heart of the city until the end of the 19th century, is filled with boutiques, bars, hotels 
and restaurants.
Locals and visitors alike walk along the nearby Old Port. Montreal has a well-deserved reputation as one of the 
liveliest cities in North America.
As they will be travelling in winter, the family can partake of the multitude of sports available, including cross-
country skiing and ice skating.
Self-catering accommodation is an option in the area, with many log cabins and villas close to the ski slopes, or 
apartments and condos close to the city.
Cost: flights from Dublin to Montreal cost from &euro;639 per person in December with US Airways.Holiday-
rentals.co.uk offers condos in downtown Montreal from &euro;450 per week.
Holiday Clinic: French lessons for Christmas
Contact: www.ebookers.ie for flights and            www.holidayrentals.co.uk for accommodation.
Load-Date: September 16, 2007
End of Document
Hurling stars to launch new Algarve development
Hurling stars to launch new Algarve development
Sunday Business Post
September 16, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: PROPERTY
Length: 350 words
Body
Hurling legends Joe Connolly, Michael Duignan and Michael Lynskey will begin marketing the latest phase of their 
Palmyra development in the Algarve next week.
Palmyra is located within the Vila Sol golf and spa complex, within a short drive of Vilamoura.
The four-bedroom houses on offer at the Palmyra scheme are all priced at &euro;749,000, and are within a short 
distance of the golf course. Decorated in bright , neutral colours throughout, they feature oak floorboards and 
wardrobes in the bedrooms, kitchens with granite worktops, and solid oak doors and architraves.
The reception areas will be floored in porcelain tiling, while there will be underfloor heating in the bathrooms and 
stone fireplaces pre-installed for gas fires in the living rooms.
Vila Sol, which has been voted one of Europe's top ten golf resorts, includes a contemporary five-star hotel as well 
as an upmarket spa. Its 27-hole golf course has twice hosted the Portuguese Open, and the complex also includes 
a golf academy, members' club with bar and restaurant, pro shop and tennis centre.
There are a total of 36 houses in the Palmyra development, which is being developed by Connolly, Duignan and 
Lynskey in conjunction with &EURO;3 Property, which has developed schemes in Britain and continental Europe.
The scheme has its own swimming pool, children's pool and gym, but owners can also use the facilities at the Vila 
Sol.
There are a number of shops and supermarkets within a short drive of Palmyra, while a new commercial centre with 
30 shops, bars and restaurants is due to open opposite the entrance to Vila Sol next year.
The scheme is within a short drive of Faro airport, from where there are regular direct flights to Dublin and Cork with 
Aer Lingus and Ryanair.
Hurling stars to launch new Algarve development
The scheme is being sold in Ireland through Joe Connolly Proper t i e s and Michael Duignan Properties, while 85 
per cent mortgages are available through Lynskey Holland, which is run by Michael Lynskey.
Phase three will go on sale in the Morrison Hotel on Ormond Quay in Dublin next Tuesday from 6pm.Details are 
available from 091-767222 and www.palmyra.ie.
Load-Date: September 16, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair targets Aer Lingus
Ryanair targets Aer Lingus
Sunday Business Post
September 16, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: LETTERS
Length: 91 words
Body
Look at all the changes Aer Lingus has made to mimic the Ryanair low-cost structure and efficiencies.
Ryanair competes fiercely on every route and Ryanair is now expanding to Belfast as well, forcing Aer Lingus to be 
leaner and meaner at every turn.
I suspect Ryanair is driving Aer Lingus to become a carbon copy of itself. When the takeover is finally approved, all 
Ryanair has to do is sell the valuable landing slots and bolt on Aer Lingus, with its new crop of cost-effective foreign 
workers. It should fit nicely.
Tim Moriarty
Killarney, Co Kerry
Load-Date: September 16, 2007
End of Document
MY 'STUPID BUSINESS'
MY 'STUPID BUSINESS'
WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS
September 15, 2007 Saturday
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved
Information Bank Abstracts
Section: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 9
Length: 35 words
Byline: Kyle Wingfield
Body
Kyle Wingfield The Weekend Interview column with Michael O'Leary, chief executive officer of Irish discount airline 
Ryanair, who offers his opinions on competition, politicians, environmentalists and others; drawing
Graphic
 
Diagram
Load-Date: September 19, 2007
End of Document
Thomson Financial UK at a glance share guide
Thomson Financial UK at a glance share guide
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 14, 2007 Friday 7:26 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 469 words
Body
Leading shares look set to open lower this morning, with the financial sector expected to be under pressure after 
Northern Rock confirmed it is to get emergency financial support from the Bank of England.
Spread bettors IG Index expect the FTSE 100 index to open about 39 points lower at 6,324.
MARKETS
FTSE 100 6,363.9, up 57.7
FTSE 250 11,172.4, down 47.3
DJIA 13,424.88 up 133.23
Nasdaq Comp 2,601.06 up 8.99
S&P 500 1,483.95 up 12.39
Tokyo: Nikkei 16,000.45, up 179.26
Hang Seng 24,894.4 up 357.38
Gold 709.00 usd (708.60 usd)
Oil Brent Oct 77.40 usd (77.45 usd)
TODAY'S PRESS
* Bank of England throws Northern Rock funding lifeline - FT
* UK pension funds vie to lead court action over claims GlaxoSmithKline
mislead the market about its diabetes drug Avandia - Times
* Cadbury Schweppes rejects private equity drinks arm bid - FT
* HSBC takes a 10 pct stake in Vietnam insurer, Bao Viet - Mail
Thomson Financial UK at a glance share guide
* Segro set to sell 500 mln stg property portfolio - Telegraph
* Ryanair plans to shut hub to Milan as it shuns Stansted - Telegraph
* Gem Diamonds finds 494-carat stone - FT
* Credit crisis forces HBOS's Halifax to raise tracker mortgage rates -
Independent
* Fortis offers concessions to aid ABN Amro bid - FT
* Private equity groups foresee slowdown as credit sources dry up - Times
* Investors pull 1.5 bln usd out of Goldman Sachs hedge fund - Times
PRESS COMMENT
FT
THE LEX COLUMN comments on UK house prices (illiquid markets only delay rather
than avert falling prices); Record oil prices (as traders know, prices can
change direction quicker than a hurricane); Smiths Group (a break-up could be
a parting gift to shareholders); Class action lawsuits (things can only get
better); Microsoft (The European Commission is still fighting yesterday's
battle) - Small Talk: David Blackwell comments on Zirax, Craneware, and
Davenham Group
Express
SHARE WHISPER: Global Energy Development (bidding war looming)
Mail
ANALYSIS: SIG (hold); CeNes (Speculative Buy) -- MARKET REPORT: PLUS Markets
(Project Turqoise should buy PLUS and let guru Simon Brickles run it!)
Telegraph
QUESTOR: SIG (Buy); Dignity (Hold)
Independent
THE INVESTMENT COLUMN: Aggreko (Buy); Dignity (Hold); Coda (Buy)
Times
TEMPUS: Kier Group (only hold); Jessops (Avoid); Aggreko (Hold) - Rumour of
the day: KCOM Group (coming under pressure to break-up) - Deal of the day:
International Greetings (CEO buys 80,000 shares)
Thomson Financial UK at a glance share guide
Investors Chronicle
LARGE CAPS TIPS: Lloyds TSB (Sell); Talvivaara (Buy); Raven Russia (Buy) --
SMALLER COMPANIES TIPS: Sport Media Group (Buy); Brulines (Buy); Dwyka (Buy)
-- Tough Shares: Telecom Plus, Heritage Underwriting, Hyder Consulting,
Albemarle & Bond, Premier Foods
FORTHCOMING EVENTS
FRIDAY SEP 14
INTERIMS
Costain Group
FINALS
Coffeeheaven International
Netstore
Voller Energy Group
AGMs
Helius Energy
Intelek
William Ransom
EGMS
Red Rock Resources
ECONOMICS
No UK data scheduled
Load-Date: September 14, 2007
End of Document
Black Friday sees E3bn wiped off ISEQ
Black Friday sees E3bn wiped off ISEQ
Business World (Digest) 
September 14, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 506 words
Highlight: Almost E3bn was wiped off the value of Irish shares as banks went into meltdown.
Body
Almost three billion euro was wiped off the value of Irish shares today as financial shares went into meltdown on 
fears over financing for banks.
Shares around Europe plummeted, with financial shares taking a severe beating, after the Bank of England was 
forced to intervene to prop up British lender Northern Rock's liquidity.
Northern Rock, the UK's fifth-largest mortgage lender with a 7pc market share, was given an emergency loan to 
after it became the biggest UK casualty so far of the credit squeeze following the fallout in US subprime mortgages.
 The news increased fears that other banks might also have been hit by inflated interbank lending rates. The ISEQ 
index slumped by more than 3pc, or 282.96 points, to 7,821.320, having slumped as low as 7,780.24 earlier in the 
session - its lowest trading level in over 12 months. The falls in Dublin were much steeper than elsewhere in Europe 
due to it being top heavy with banks. The ripples created by Northern Rock's financial woes hit Irish Life and 
Permanent hardest with shares in the institution slumping 69c to 15.67. Meanwhile, shares in AIB fell 40c to 17.39, 
while Bank of Ireland dropped 30c to 11.98 and Anglo Irish Bank slipped 4pc, or 67c to 12.71, having been down by 
more than 7pc earlier in the day. Construction shares also suffered, with building materials giant CRH the biggest 
faller, down 156c to 27.64. Elsewhere in the sector, Kingspan was down 3pc, or 56c, to 16.80, while Grafton fell 15c 
to 8.95 and McInerney slumped 4pc, or 8c, to 2.01. Housebuilder Abbey also fell into the black, down 6pc, or 50c, 
to 8.60. Investors will be hoping for a boost next week from the string of companies due to release results. First up 
is Dragon Oil on Monday. Davy Stockbrokers is forecasting that the exploration company will post growth in 
earnings per share of 63pc year on year for the first six months of 2007, on the back of a 64pc increase in revenues 
to USD235m. Shares in Dragon closed 1c higher at 3.58 in Dublin last night. Other firms due to release interim 
results next week include Independent News and Media on Tuesday, Newcourt on Wednesday and Donegal 
Creameries on Friday. Elsewhere today, drug maker Elan plummeted by a disappointing 7pc, or 101c, to 13.13, 
while United Drug fell 10c to 3.53 and C and C, down 19c to 6.13. Meanwhile, Ryanair dropped 13c to 5.05 after the 
Black Friday sees E3bn wiped off ISEQ
airline said it had held 'a positive meeting' with SEA, the Milan Malpensa airport operating company, on Ryanair's 
USD1bn proposal to set up operations at the airport. Earlier this week, Ryanair said its proposal can contribute to 
growth at Malpensa after the decision by Alitalia SpA to reduce activities there, reportedly cutting half of its 340 
daily flights. 'Over the coming weeks, Ryanair and SEA will study the proposals which were exchanged during the 
meeting,' Ryanair said, without further details. Ryanair said that it wants SEA to offer the tariffs and conditions so 
the airline can provide its low-cost activities, including facilities for quick turnaround of planes. 
Load-Date: September 18, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair travellers to Spain need p/port
Ryanair travellers to Spain need p/port
Business World (Digest) 
September 14, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 106 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that travellers to Spain will need a passport in future.
Body
Ryanair today said that the Spanish Government has introduced new measures requiring all passengers travelling 
to Spain (including the Canaries and Balearic Islands) from Ireland and the UK to provide passport or National ID 
data prior to flight departure.
This is known as 'advance passenger information' ('API' or 'APIS' data) and all passengers travelling from 
September 19th will be required to submit their full names, date of birth, nationality, passport or ID, type of 
document description and name of issuing state.
Any passenger who refuses to provide this information to authorities will be denied travel at check-in, Ryanair said.
Load-Date: September 18, 2007
End of Document
Friday Papers: Cadbury reportedly turns down second offer for drinks division
Friday Papers: Cadbury reportedly turns down second offer for drinks 
division
Citywire
September 14, 2007 Friday 6:54 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 213 words
Body
Cadbury reportedly turns down second offer for drinks division and Segro set to sell £500 million property portfolio.
* Cadbury is understood to have turned down a second offer worth around £1.35 billion from a private equity 
consortium for its drinks arm, making it likely the confectionery group will demerge its beverages business * Segro 
set to sell £500 million property portfolio * HSBC Holdings buys 10% of Vietnamese insurer BAO Viet for $255 
million; active investor Knight Vincke pours scorn on deal * State Street Global raises stake in Sainsbury to 2.30% * 
Rolls-Royce wins five-year $100 million maintenance contract from IcelandAir * T-Mobile considering pooling its 
networks structure with 3 * Fortis offers concessions to aid ABN Amro bid * Banks delay sales of $16 billion First 
Data loan to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts * Vivendi in talks to take stake in Oger Telecom * Global Radio overhauls 
Chrysalis team amid speculation over ideas for Emap * Grant Bovey pulls Imagine Homes flotation * Nigel Wray 
declares a 15% stake in Southern Bear * Ryanair ready to invest $1 billion in Milan's Malpensa, subject to operating 
conditions * Baring Asset Management cuts stake in Premier Asset Management * Servoca in talks with a number 
of parties about possible acquisition
Load-Date: September 18, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ below 8,000 as banks take a beating
ISEQ below 8,000 as banks take a beating
Business World (Digest) 
September 14, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 197 words
Highlight: The ISEQ index slumped back below the 8,000 level in the opening hours this morning.
Body
The ISEQ index slumped back below the 8,000 level in the opening hours this morning on the back of sharp falls in 
the financial sector after the Bank of England was forced to intervene to prop up British lender Northern Rock's 
liquidity.
Just after 1000, the ISEQ index was down 187.74 points to 7916.54. The market also slumped below the 8,000 
level yesterday morning, however, a late rally saw it claw back those sharp falls to close unchanged.
The bad news emanating from Northern Rock in the UK knocked Irish banks in the early stages, with AIB and Bank 
of Ireland, which both trade in London, falling by 65c to 17.17 and 33c to 11.95 respectively.
 Anglo Irish Bank and Irish Life and Permanent also slipped into the red, down 63c to 12.70 and 56c to 15.80 
respectively. Construction shares also fell, but less sharply, with CRH down 45c to 28.73, Kingspan down 14c to 
17.22 and Grafton down 7c to 9.03. McInerney was unchanged at 2.09. C and C was another notable faller, down 
22c to 6.10, on profit taking after takeover speculation sent shares in the company sharply higher over the last few 
days. Elsewhere, Ryanair was down 4c at 5.14, while Smurfit Kappa jumped 25c to 15.66.
Load-Date: September 18, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair ready to invest 1 bln usd in Milan's Malpensa, subject to opg conditions
Ryanair ready to invest 1 bln usd in Milan's Malpensa, subject to opg 
conditions
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 13, 2007 Thursday 3:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 244 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC said it is ready to invest 1 bln usd over 2008-2012 at Milan's Malpensa airport, if the SEA 
airport operating company offers suitable fees and operating conditions.
Ryanair is making its offer because Alitalia SpA is planning to move flights away from Malpensa, cutting about half 
of its 340 daily flights.
'Malpensa needs to attract companies that are able to achieve growth, and no air company can equal Ryanair in 
offering attractive growth, thanks to lower tariffs than those of Alitalia,' said Ryanair.
Ryanair's offer includes investment of 840 mln usd in 12 aircraft based at Malpensa and the launch of 50 
international routes from Malpensa, it said.
The offer comes ahead of meeting tomorrow in Dublin between Ryanair and SEA.
Ryanair spokesman Peter Sherrard said SEA has to offer tariffs competitive with other airports where Ryanair 
operates, as well simple operating facilities enabling quick turnaround of aircraft.
Ryanair's brand of short-haul can boost growth at Malpensa, drawing on the Milan catchment, which is an 
undeveloped market in the air sector compared to similar size metropolitan areas like London, he said.
In addition to the 840 mln usd of aircraft, delivered in 2008-2010, Ryanair would hire pilots and crew, he said, 
adding that expansion at nearby Bergamo airport will continue whatever happens on Malpensa.
'If we don't go to Malpensa fine. We continue to grow at Bergamo and the aircraft will go elsewhere,' he said.
Load-Date: September 13, 2007
End of Document
Alitalia H1 net loss narrows slightly, still enough cash to operate
Alitalia H1 net loss narrows slightly, still enough cash to operate
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 13, 2007 Thursday 6:47 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 335 words
Body
Italy's struggling national carrier Alitalia said late last night its net loss narrowed marginally in the first half of the 
year but it still has enough cash reserves to keep flying for another year while new management seeks a buyer.
In a statement, the 49.9-pct-state-owned airline said its first-half net loss was 211.1 mln eur, a slight narrowing from 
the 220.2 mln loss reported in the same period a year earlier. Alitalia didn't disclose details for the second quarter.
The company said first-half revenue edged up 3.1 pct in the first half to 2.31 bln eur from 2.24 bln a year earlier, but 
operating costs grew 3 pct to 2.44 bln eur from 2.37 bln.
While fuel costs dropped 1.5 pct in the half, personnel costs grew 14 percent as the airline hired more staff in line 
with previously struck labor agreements.
The Rome-based company did not comment on progress in new Chairman Maurizio Prato's search for a buyer in 
the wake of the government's failed attempt to auction its stake earlier this year.
Earlier Wednesday, Alitalia denied Italian press reports that it was in high-level talks with Air France-KLM, which 
has often been put forward by analysts as a likely buyer for the company.
Prato said earlier this month that, in association with the airline's financial adviser, Citigroup Inc., he intends to 
sound out all potential suitors by the end of September. These include private equity house TPG Inc., privately 
owned Italian airline Air One, and Russian flag carrier Aeroflot, all of which have previously expressed interest in 
the airline.
Alitalia's plight has been exacerbated by the rapid growth of low-cost carriers like Ryanair and easyJet, and by 
persistent labor unrest, as powerful unions seek guarantees over future staffing despite management's attempts to 
broach the issue of restructuring.
Alitalia reported last month that the company's net debt was 1.05 bln eur at the end of July, while its market 
capitalization has slipped about 20 pct since the start of the year to just under 1.2 bln eur.
Load-Date: September 13, 2007
Alitalia H1 net loss narrows slightly, still enough cash to operate
End of Document
ISEQ closes flat after falling below 8k
ISEQ closes flat after falling below 8k
Business World (Digest) 
September 13, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 504 words
Highlight: A late rally saw the Dublin market close unchanged after the ISEQ index had slumped below the 8,000 
level.
Body
A late rally saw the Dublin market close unchanged this evening after the ISEQ index had slumped below the 8,000 
level earlier in the session to its point in almost 12 months.
The ISEQ closed 3.21 points lower at 8104.28 - off session lows of 7953.02.
The late-afternoon surge came on the back of a positive opening on Wall Street after new figures showed that fewer 
Americans than expected sought unemployment benefits last week.
 The Labour Department reported claims for unemployment benefits in the US rose by 4,000 last week to 319,000 - 
the sixth increase in seven weeks - but the number was less than the 325,000 claims analysts expected. Low 
unemployment, at 4.6pc, has been one of the US economy's strengths. In Dublin, financials put in a mixed 
performance with AIB jumping 9c to 17.80 and Bank of Ireland falling 18c to 12.29. Anglo Irish Bank ended the 
session 16c lower at 13.33, while shares in Irish Life and Permanent made a modest recovery from a 4.2pc drop in 
the previous session, jumping 11c to16.36. The sharp falls on Wednesday had left the shares at their lowest level in 
more than 12-months. "Investors continue to fret about the impact of money market paralysis on the group's funding 
costs," Davy analyst, Emer Lang, said. In the construction sector, CRH slipped 35c to 29.13 after the building 
materials giant announced four acquisitions in the US, while Kingspan fell 29c to 17.59. Grafton was down 11c to 
9.13 and McInerney was down 3c to 2.09. Those falls outweighed positive performances by Kerry Group, up 5pc, or 
1.01, to 21.15, and paper packaging company Smurfit Kappa, up 1.5pc, or 21c, to 15.45. Other notable movers 
included Ryanair, down 5c to 5.18, amid reports it could be about to pump USD1bn to expand its operations in Italy, 
CandC, up 9c to 6.32, on rumours that some of Europe's biggest brewing companies are lining up takeover bids for 
the drinks group, and drug maker Elan, up 7c to 14.15. Meanwhile, DCC closed 26c higher at 19.92, while 
Greencore added on 11c to 4.79 and United Drug dipped 7c to 3.63. Elsewhere, shares in Newcourt closed 
unchanged at 1.50 ahead of the outsourcing group's first half results, due for release next Wednesday. Goodbody 
ISEQ closes flat after falling below 8k
said it is expecting the group to unveil "an impressive set of numbers" buoyed by the seven acquisitions it made in 
2006 and the continued growth of the services sector in Ireland, in which Newcourt is heavily involved. The broker 
is forecasting a 57pc rise in earnings on the back of a 52pc jump in revenue. "Within these results we will be looking 
for an update on the outlook for margins in the second half and beyond, any further MandA plans, Ely's pipeline of 
student accommodation developments and Newcourt's bid to win the tender to manage Ireland's speed camera 
network," Goodbody's Phillip O'Sullivan said. "Given the recent fall in the firm's valuation, we feel that a strong set 
of interims could help reinvigorate the share price performance and, hence, we reiterate our buy recommendation 
and E2.10 price target."
Load-Date: September 17, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to invest $1.2 billion to expand operations at Milan airports
Ryanair to invest $1.2 billion to expand operations at Milan airports
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 13, 2007 Thursday 12:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 140 words
Dateline: MILAN Italy
Body
Europe's largest low-cost airline Ryanair said Thursday it plans to invest $1.2 billion to expand service to Milan.
Ryanair said it plans to open routes at Milan's main international airport, Malpensa, and expand its presence at the 
low-cost hub Orio al Serio. The company will discuss its offer in a meeting with Malpensa officials on Friday.
Ryanair said it was reacting to reports that Alitalia plans to cut up to 140 flights to Malpensa as part of a plan to 
rescue the struggling carrier.
The Dublin-based carrier's plans calls for a $840 million investment in Malpensa where it will base 12 aircraft by 
2010. At Orio al Serio, Ryan Air would invest $420 million to add six aircraft by 2012 to its current four aircraft 
serving 39 routes.
"Ryanair's offer provides the potential for real growth," spokesman Peter Sherrard said in a statement.
Load-Date: September 14, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair launches five routes from Basel-Mulhouse airport
Ryanair launches five routes from Basel-Mulhouse airport
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 13, 2007 Thursday 11:33 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 134 words
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair Holdings said it is launching five routes from Basel-Mulhouse airport in France next month.
Ryanair said flights to Stockholm-Skavsta, Barcelona-Girona, Alicante in Spain, Valence in France and Dublin will 
begin on Oct 11.
The Dublin-based carrier said it was offering 50,000 free tickets to mark the launch and 20,000 passengers had 
already made reservations on the new services.
Basel-Mulhouse airport is in France, in the tri-national Upper Rhine region near Switzerland and Germany.
Meanwhile, Air France said it was launching a Strasbourg-London service offering three return flights a day on Oct 
28, according to the regional organisation Communaute Urbaine de Strasbourg.
Air France subsidiary City Jet will operate the service between Entzheim airport and London City airport.
Load-Date: September 13, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to invest US$1.2 billion to expand operations at Milan airports
Ryanair to invest US$1.2 billion to expand operations at Milan airports
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 13, 2007 Thursday 11:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 152 words
Dateline: MILAN Italy
Body
Europe's largest low-cost airline Ryanair said Thursday it wants to increase routes to two of Milan's airports.
Ryanair said it plans to invest US$1.2 billion (€860 million) to open routes at Milan's main international airport, 
Malpensa, and expand its presence at the low-cost hub Orio al Serio. The company will discuss its offer in a 
meeting with Malpensa officials on Friday.
Ryanair said it was reacting to reports that Alitalia plans to cut up to 140 flights to Malpensa as part of a plan to 
rescue the struggling carrier.
The Dublin-based carrier's plans calls for a US$840 million (€605 million) investment in Malpensa where it will base 
12 aircraft by 2010. At Orio al Serio, Ryan Air would invest US$420 million (€302 million) to add six aircraft by 2012 
to its current four aircraft serving 39 routes.
"Ryanair's offer provides the potential for real growth," spokesman Peter Sherrard said in a statement.
Load-Date: September 14, 2007
End of Document
Negative effects of too-heavy trains
Negative effects of too-heavy trains
Financial Times (London, England)
September 13, 2007 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 14
Length: 407 words
Byline: By JIM BAMFORD
Body
From Mr Jim Bamford.
Sir, You report that commuters are being delayed because new trains are heavier than those they replace and are 
causing greater wear and tear to track, leading to speed restrictions ("Travellers delayed by weight of new trains", 
August 30). In fact, the negative consequences of the excessively heavy trains are more extensive and more 
serious than that.
The last generation of British Rail trains were deliberately lightweight, as BR shrewdly realised that it could operate 
at higher speeds because they imposed less strain on the track - called "differential speeds" in rail jargon. Now, 
most new trains across the UK network are so heavy that, on most lines, they cannot take advantage of higher 
differential speeds and are restricted to the old 1980s speed limits. At great cost, the new trains have been given 
bigger engines for faster acceleration, but the benefits of this are negated by the need to obey the old, lower speed 
limits. As a result, the rail industry is producing the first ever generation of new trains that give no reduction in 
journey times.
But virtually all transport costs are time-related. Put simply, the slower a service is, the more resources - trains, 
crew, maintenance, etc - one needs for any given level of service. Ryanair realises this, hence its famous 25-minute 
turnrounds. In the 1980s, when BR introduced lightweight trains with higher differential speeds, it radically cut the 
costs of services across the UK - and radically reduced the public subsidy. None of the current train operating 
companies has done this - but they could do, if they wished. All they have to do is keep trains lightweight and 
extend differential speeds across the network. Nottinghamshire County Council has been urging just this.
There are other benefits from lighter trains - reduced track wear and tear, reduced fuel costs, fewer CO2 emissions 
- and of course shorter journey times attract more passengers.
The Department for Transport has at last stipulated lower weight for the next generation of high-speed trains, 
though this is years away. But as your report shows, it matters just as much for all services. As a matter of urgency, 
the DfT should take one of the new commuter trains and see what alterations could be made to reduce weight. It 
would go a long way to countering the recent massive increase in rail industry costs.
Negative effects of too-heavy trains
Jim Bamford,
Public Transport Projects Officer,
Nottinghamshire County Council
Load-Date: September 12, 2007
End of Document
Five new Ryanair routes from France
Five new Ryanair routes from France
Business World (Digest) 
September 13, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 54 words
Highlight: Ryanair has announced five new routes from Basel-Mulhouse airport in France, one of which will be to 
Dublin.
Body
Ryanair has announced five new routes from Basel-Mulhouse airport in France, one of which will be to Dublin.
The no-frills carrier said flights to Stockholm-Skavsta, Barcelona-Girona, Alicante in Spain, Valence in France and 
Dublin will begin on Oct 11.
The airline said it was offering 50,000 free tickets to mark the launch.
Load-Date: September 17, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair may invest USD1bn in N Italy
Ryanair may invest USD1bn in N Italy
Business World (Digest) 
September 13, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 159 words
Highlight: Ryanair is prepared to step in to replace routes vacated by a downsized Alitalia with a USD1bn 
investment.
Body
Ryanair is prepared to step in to replace routes vacated by a downsized Alitalia in northern Italy, the Irish no-frills 
airline said today.
Ryanair is to invest USD840 million in Milan's Malpensa and USD160 million in Bergamo's Orio al Serio airport, 
company spokesman Peter Sherrard told a news conference today.
The expansion would be in reaction to Alitalia's plans to almost halve its 340 daily flights from Malpensa, he said.
 Ryanair would launch 50 European flights and 10 to Italian destinations, he said. Ryanair management is set to 
discuss the plan with executives from Milan airports operator SEA on Friday in Dublin. If agreement can be met 
tomorrow, Ryanair plans to double the size of its existing Bergamo base (currently 4 aircraft and 39 routes) by 
investing USD420m in 6 additional aircraft before 2012. It said it would invest USD840m in Malpensa, basing 12 
aircraft at the airport, starting with 5 in 2008, a further 4 in 2009 and 3 in 2010.
Load-Date: September 17, 2007
End of Document
Alitalia : losses continue, but enough cash to keep flying while buyer sought
Alitalia: losses continue, but enough cash to keep flying while buyer sought
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 12, 2007 Wednesday 8:54 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 360 words
Dateline: ROME 
Body
Italy's struggling national carrier Alitalia said Wednesday its net loss narrowed marginally in the first half of the year 
but it still has enough cash reserves to keep flying for another year while new management seeks a buyer.
In a statement, the 49.9-percent-state-owned airline said its first-half net loss was 211.1 million euros ($293 million), 
a slight narrowing from the 220.2 million euro loss reported in the same period a year earlier. Alitalia didn't disclose 
details for the second quarter.
The company said first-half revenue edged up 3.1 percent in the first half to 2.31 billion euros ($3.21 billion) from 
2.24 billion euros a year earlier, but operating costs grew 3 percent to 2.44 billion euros ($3.39 billion) from 2.37 
billion euros.
While fuel costs dropped 1.5 percent in the half, personnel costs grew 14 percent as the airline hired more staff in 
line with previously struck labor agreements.
The Rome-based company didn't comment on progress in new Chairman Maurizio Prato's search for a buyer in the 
wake of the government's failed attempt to auction its stake earlier this year.
Earlier Wednesday, Alitalia denied Italian press reports that it was in high-level talks with Air France-KLM, which 
has often been put forward by analysts as a likely buyer for the company.
Prato said earlier this month that, in association with the airline's financial adviser, Citigroup Inc., he intends to 
sound out all potential suitors by the end of September. These include private equity house TPG Inc., privately 
owned Italian airline Air One, and Russian flag carrier Aeroflot, all of which have previously expressed interest in 
the airline.
Alitalia's plight has been exacerbated by the rapid growth of low-cost carriers like Ryanair and easyJet, and by 
persistent labor unrest, as powerful unions seek guarantees over future staffing despite management's attempts to 
broach the issue of restructuring.
Alitalia : losses continue, but enough cash to keep flying while buyer sought
Alitalia reported last month that the company's net debt was 1.05 billion euros ($1.46 billion) at the end of July, 
while its market capitalization has slipped about 20 percent since the start of the year to just under 1.2 billion euros 
($1.67 billion).
Load-Date: September 13, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down 0.5pc, despite 8pc jump in AGI
ISEQ down 0.5pc, despite 8pc jump in AGI
Business World (Digest) 
September 12, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 488 words
Highlight: Sharp gains in AGI Therapeutics failed to lift the Dublin market today.
Body
Sharp gains in AGI Therapeutics failed to lift the Dublin market today as the ISEQ index slumped by more than half 
of a percent.
Just after midday the ISEQ was down 42.82 points to 8118.02.
Shares were lower despite a positive close on Wall Street overnight on increased confidence the Federal Reserve 
will cut interest rates next week.
 AGI Therapeutics was up 11c to 1.50 after it was confirmed that the US food and drug administration has given the 
green light for it to advance trials of its promising new IBS treatment. However, those gains were outweighed by 
sluggish trading in the financial sector, where AIB was down 29c to 17.56 and Bank of Ireland was down 20c to 
12.55. Anglo Irish Bank was off by 7c at 13.48, while Irish Life and Permanent slipped 27c to 16.70. Construction 
shares fared little better with Kingspan baring the brunt of the falls, dropping 25c to 17.85. McInerney was down 
1pc, or 4c, to 2.07. Grafton and CRH both managed to make modest headway, adding on 7c to 9.30 and 9c to 
19.52 respectively. Elsewhere, shares in C and C rose sharply in the early stages amid rumours that it remains a 
takeover target. The company's share price rose by more than 2pc, before settling back to 5.94, up 1c. Brewing 
giants SABMiller and Scottish and Newcastle have both been linked with bids for the cider manufacturer in recent 
days, providing shares with a much needed lift. Rumours that C and C is attempting to tie up a distribution deal with 
a UK brewer for its products has also lifted the stock. Other notable movers included Iona Technologies, up 6pc, or 
15c, to 2.58, Ryanair, up 8c to 5.25, and Veris, up 15c to 3.15. Boundary Capital was unchanged at 0.80 after it 
said this week that it is to buy a 40pc stake in Arnotts. Meanwhile, Dragon Oil made steady progress, jumping 5c to 
3.57, ahead of the release of its first half results next week. Goodbody is forecasting that the company will report 
annual growth in gross and net production of 52pc and 56pc respectively. CPL Resources edged up 2c to 6.37 after 
its positive trading update from earlier in the week prompted a leading stockbroker to upgrade its forecasts and 
price targets for the recruitment group. CPL said on Tuesday that earnings rose 81pc during the full year - 5pc 
ISEQ down 0.5pc, despite 8pc jump in AGI
above forecasts. "We are raising our forecasts for both FY08 and FY09," Goodbody analyst Phillip O'Sullivan said. 
"For the current year, we now expect CPL to achieve earnings of 55.0c (10-11pc above our previous estimate), 
while for FY09 we are raising our projected adjusted EPS by 9.3pc to 62.0c. While these represent annual growth of 
22pc and 13pc, respectively, we believe the bias to forecasts is on the upside. This is underpinned by the strong 
momentum within the group, which saw sequential growth in earnings of 38pc in H207 to 26.1c. "We are raising our 
price target on CPL to E8.20 (30pc upside), while reiterating our Buy recommendation," Mr O'Sullivan added.
Load-Date: September 14, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down 0.6pc, though  AGI spurts
ISEQ down 0.6pc, though  AGI spurts
Business World (Digest) 
September 12, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 503 words
Highlight: Sharp gains in AGI Therapeutics failed to lift the Dublin market today as the ISEQ index slumped by 
more than half of a percent.
Body
Sharp gains in AGI Therapeutics failed to lift the Dublin market today as the ISEQ index slumped by more than half 
of a percent.
Shortly after half past four this evening the ISEQ index was 52.84 points lower at 8,108.00.
Shares had risen to a weak early peak before sliding through the rest of the session.
 They were little helped by early flat to negative trading on Wall Street as players waited for the latest figures on the 
oil market. AGI Therapeutics was up 11c to 150 after it was confirmed that the US food and drug administration has 
given the green light for it to advance trials of its promising new IBS treatment. However, those gains were 
outweighed by sluggish trading in the financial sector, where Irish Life and Permanent dived by 76c to 1621 and AIB 
fell by 23c to 1762. Bank of Ireland was down 14c at 1258 and Anglo Irish Bank was off by 10c at 1345. 
Construction shares fared little better with Kingspan baring the brunt of the falls, dropping 25c to 1785. McInerney 
was down 1.5pc, or 3c, to 208. Grafton and CRH both managed to make modest headway, adding on 6c to 929 and 
5c to 2950 respectively. Elsewhere, shares in C and C rose sharply in the early stages amid rumours that it remains 
a takeover target. The company's share price rose by more than 3pc to finish at 619, up 21c. Brewing giants 
SABMiller and Scottish and Newcastle have both been linked with bids for the cider manufacturer in recent days, 
providing shares with a much needed lift. Rumours that C and C is attempting to tie up a distribution deal with a UK 
brewer for its products has also lifted the stock. Other notable movers included Iona Technologies, up 6pc, or 15c, 
to 258, Ryanair, up 7c to 5.24, and Veris, up 11c to 315. Boundary Capital was up 0.5c to 80.5 after it said this 
week that it is to buy a 40pc stake in Arnotts. Meanwhile, Dragon Oil made steady progress, jumping 4c to 356, 
ahead of the release of its first half results next week. Goodbody is forecasting that the company will report annual 
growth in gross and net production of 52pc and 56pc respectively. CPL Resources edged 5c lower to 630 on profit 
taking after its positive trading update earlier in the week prompted a leading stockbroker to upgrade forecasts and 
ISEQ down 0.6pc, though  AGI spurts
price targets for the recruitment group. CPL said on Tuesday that earnings rose 81pc during the full year - 5pc 
above forecasts. "We are raising our forecasts for both FY08 and FY09," Goodbody analyst Phillip O'Sullivan said. 
"For the current year, we now expect CPL to achieve earnings of 55.0c (10-11pc above our previous estimate), 
while for FY09 we are raising our projected adjusted EPS by 9.3pc to 62.0c. While these represent annual growth of 
22pc and 13pc, respectively, we believe the bias to forecasts is on the upside. This is underpinned by the strong 
momentum within the group, which saw sequential growth in earnings of 38pc in H207 to 26.1c. "We are raising our 
price target on CPL to E8.20 (30pc upside), while reiterating our Buy recommendation," Mr O'Sullivan added. 
Load-Date: September 14, 2007
End of Document
EU opens inquiry into aid for Alghero airport, Italy
EU opens inquiry into aid for Alghero airport, Italy
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 12, 2007 Wednesday 11:46 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 160 words
Body
The European Commission said it has opened an inquiry into aid earmarked by regional Italian government for 
Alghero airport, Italy.
The support would have been granted by the Sardinia Region and SOGEAAL SpA, the publicly owned company 
operating Alghero airport, to various air carriers, and by the Sardinia Region to SOGEAAL SpA.
The commission's investigation will focus around three separate aspects. It will investigate agreements between 
SOGEAAL and Irish air carrier Ryanair Holdings concerning marketing support and other contributions.
It will also investigate a number of handling fee rebates that are allegedly granted to low-cost air carriers at Alghero 
airport. The EU executive will also consider whether financial support and compensation granted to SOGEAAL SpA 
for its operating losses and capital increase constitutes state aid in favour of the airport operator.
The commission launched this investigation following a complaint from a competing airline.
Load-Date: September 12, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus says 'in no doubt' Ryanair EC takeover appeal will fail
Aer Lingus says 'in no doubt' Ryanair EC takeover appeal will fail
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 11, 2007 Tuesday 9:23 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 301 words
Body
Irish carrier Aer Lingus Group PLC said it is 'in no doubt' that Ryanair's appeal against the European Commission's 
decision to block its proposed takeover of Aer Lingus would fail.
Ryanair yesterday said it had submitted an appeal to the European Court of First Instance (CFI) in Luxembourg 
against what it described as the commission's 'unlawful and politically motivated decision' to block its merger with 
the Irish flag carrier.
Ryanair made a 2.80 eur per share offer to acquire Aer Lingus following the former national airline's flotation last 
October. However, Aer Lingus backed the EC's decision to block the takeover.
'The Commission's investigation, which took account of the interests of all relevant parties, particularly those of 
consumers, confirmed the position of Aer Lingus that competition and, as a result the Irish travelling public, would 
suffer if a merger of the two largest airlines operating out of Dublin airport was permitted to take place,' said Aer 
Lingus in a statement.
It argued the takeover would have resulted in an immediate reduction in Aer Lingus fares, reduced costs and 
increased efficiency and punctuality. It also pledged to retain Aer Lingus as a separate brand and to keep all its 
profitable routes.
However, the commission said in June, when it confirmed its decision, it believed the combination would harm 
consumers and would reduce competition by creating a monopoly on 22 routes and a dominant position, with a 
market share of more than 60 pct on a further 13.
It said the deal would have reduced choice and probably have led to higher prices for more than 14 mln passengers 
in the EU using those routes to and from Ireland each year.
The EU executive also said the proposed remedies offered by Ryanair during the investigation were 'inadequate' 
and 'insufficient'.
Load-Date: September 11, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus : Ryanair bid doomed to fail
Aer Lingus: Ryanair bid doomed to fail
Business World (Digest) 
September 11, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 276 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus said Ryanair's appeal against the European Commission's decision on Aer Lingus would fail.
Body
Aer Lingus today said it is 'in no doubt' that Ryanair's appeal against the European Commission's decision to block 
its proposed takeover of Aer Lingus would fail.
Ryanair yesterday said it had submitted an appeal to the European Court of First Instance (CFI) in Luxembourg 
against what it described as the commission's 'unlawful and politically motivated decision' to block its merger with 
the Irish flag carrier.
Ryanair made a E2.80 per share offer to acquire Aer Lingus following the former national airline's flotation last 
October. However, Aer Lingus backed the EC's decision to block the takeover.
 'The Commission's investigation, which took account of the interests of all relevant parties, particularly those of 
consumers, confirmed the position of Aer Lingus that competition and, as a result the Irish travelling public, would 
suffer if a merger of the two largest airlines operating out of Dublin airport was permitted to take place,' said Aer 
Lingus in a statement. It argued the takeover would have resulted in an immediate reduction in Aer Lingus fares, 
reduced costs and increased efficiency and punctuality. It also pledged to retain Aer Lingus as a separate brand 
and to keep all its profitable routes. However, the commission said in June, when it confirmed its decision, it 
believed the combination would harm consumers and would reduce competition by creating a monopoly on 22 
routes and a dominant position, with a market share of more than 60 pct on a further 13. It said the deal would have 
reduced choice and probably have led to higher prices for more than 14 mln passengers in the EU using those 
routes to and from Ireland each year.
Load-Date: September 13, 2007
Aer Lingus : Ryanair bid doomed to fail
End of Document
Brussels shares TFN at a glance outlook
Brussels shares TFN at a glance outlook
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 11, 2007 Tuesday 7:41 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 127 words
Body
Shares are expected to open up following a higher close on Wall Street.
Last night, the Bel 20 closed down 36.70 points or 0.87 pct lower at 4,190.77.
FORTHCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
-Belgian 3 months to July industrial orders (2200 GMT)
-Belgian 3 months to July industrial output (2200 GMT)
TOMORROW
-Nothing scheduled
PRESS HEADLINES
-EU objects to Flemish government's 6 mln eur subsidy to Volvo Ghent plant (L'Echo, De Tijd)
-Brussels South Charleroi Airport says it intends to reduce its reliance on Ryanair Holdings flights to 80 pct next 
year from 86 pct (La Libre Belgique)
-KBC Securities buys 60 pct stake in corporate and real estate specialist Serbian Servische Bastion Group (De 
Standaard)
COMPANY NEWS
-Fortis confirms will split ABN Amro HQ between Amsterdam and Brussels
Load-Date: September 11, 2007
End of Document
Tuesday Papers: Joe Lewis takes a punt on Bear Stearns - bid news and gossip
Tuesday Papers: Joe Lewis takes a punt on Bear Stearns - bid news and 
gossip
Citywire
September 11, 2007 Tuesday 6:41 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 219 words
Body
Joe Lewis takes a punt on Bear Stearns, Barclays admits it is facing defeat in ABN battle and Sports Direct faces 
new buyback rumours.
* Joseph Lewis, a Bahama-based British billionaire, has amassed close to a 7% stake in Bear Stearns in a bet that 
the investment bank will bounce back from its 34% fall in its share price this year * Barclays admits it is facing 
defeat in ABN Amro bid battle * Sports Direct acquires 3.87% stake in Umbro and adds to holdings in Adidas; Mike 
Ashley faces new buyback rumours (Express) * Scottish & Newcastle denies 'white knight' talks to fend off a 
Carlsberg bid; BBH partnership strong * Qinetiq bids for £60 billion MOD deal * Kohlberg Kravis Roberts in loan 
terms talks over First Data deal * LogicaCMG provisionally wins Dutch water works authority tax and data base 
contract * Cambrian Mining sells 12.93 million Asia Mineral Resources shares at 1.75 Canadian dollars each * 
Glanbia buys Canadian nutritional company Pizzey's for undisclosed sum * Scottish & Southern Energy signs 
Chinese wind farm development deal * Ryanair appeals against EU block on Aer Lingus merger * Alternative 
Energy sees shares listed on AIM by September 28 * Greatfleet in talks re possible takeover of specialist 
recruitment company * British Land sells Blythe Valley Park for up to £161 million
Load-Date: September 14, 2007
End of Document
Talks for alternative Shannon/Heathrow
Talks for alternative Shannon/Heathrow
Business World (Digest) 
September 11, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 128 words
Highlight: Shannon Airport Authority is talking to airlines in the hope of replacing Aer Lingus's Heathrow link.
Body
Shannon Airport Authority is talking to three or four airlines in the hope of replacing Aer Lingus's Heathrow link as 
well as new links to the continent.
The Authority published a list of incentives available to any airline interested in setting up a base at Shannon.
A spokesman for the authority said they were confident they would find a replacement for the Aer Lingus service to 
Heathrow.
 The new incentives apply from January 1, and the authority will be hoping to a new service in place from then. Aer 
Lingus is hoping to be operational at its new base in Belfast from December 10. Meanwhile, Aer Lingus issued a 
statement last night predicting that Ryanair's appeal against the European Commission decision to block its 
attempted takeover of the airline would fail.
Load-Date: September 13, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ makes modest recovery, banks up
ISEQ makes modest recovery, banks up
Business World (Digest) 
September 11, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 124 words
Highlight: The Dublin market moved sharply higher this morning after falling by more than 1.5pc yesterday.
Body
The Dublin market moved sharply higher this morning after falling by more than 1.5pc yesterday, closing at its 
lowest level in almost 12 months.
Just before midday today, the index had rebounded by 70.58 points to 8120.17.
Banks led the way, with AIB up 19c to 17.87 and Anglo Irish bank up 2c to 13.72 and Bank of Ireland up 10c to 
12.72. Irish Life and Permanent made steady progress, jumping 26c to 16.86.
 In the construction sector, CRH made a modest recovery from heavy falls in the previous session, adding on 22c to 
trade at 29.22. Meanwhile, Grafton was up 9c to 9.09, while Kingspan was up 27c to 17.66 and McInerney was up 
1c to 2.11. Other notable movers included Ryanair, up 5c to 5.15, and Irish Continental Group, down 20c to 24.80.
Load-Date: September 13, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair submits appeal against EU Commission block on Aer Lingus merger
Ryanair submits appeal against EU Commission block on Aer Lingus merger
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 10, 2007 Monday 4:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 60 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC said it lodged an appeal with European Court of First Instance (CFI) against the EU 
Commission's 'unlawful and politically motivated decision' to block its merger with Irish state-run airline Aer Lingus.
Ryanair said it made an offer of 2.80 eur a share to acquire Aer Lingus following the former national airline's 
floatation last October.
Load-Date: September 10, 2007
End of Document
How Ryanair enabled O'Leary to take flight
How Ryanair enabled O'Leary to take flight
Sunday Business Post
September 9, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AGENDA
Length: 899 words
Body
MICHAEL O'LEARY - A LIFE IN FULL FLIGHT, By Alan Ruddock, Penguin, EUR 19.
Decisions, decisions. Is it better to spend EUR 20 to read all about how Michael O'Leary created a stunningly 
successful low-cost airline, or spend the money on a flight to Carcassonne, Tampere or one of the 79 other 
destinations Ryanair serves from Ireland?
For O'Leary, there's no contest - but that's probably because he pockets the proceeds of the latter option. He did 
not contribute to this biography, forcing the author to rely on old interviews gleaned from his career as a journalist 
with the Sunday Times and the Scotsman, and snippets picked up third-hand from a collection of O'Leary's friends 
and foes.
Despite the title, however, the book is more about Ryanair than O'Leary himself.
''But for all the publicity, little is known about Michael O'Leary beyond the carefully constructed image that he 
chooses to present: that of the plucky little Paddy in jeans who is sticking it to the big boys," reads the blurb on the 
back cover.
Unfortunately, the 421 pages that precede it do little to change matters.
The story of Ryanair's transformation, from millionaire businessman Tony Ryan's loss-making plaything to one of 
the biggest success stories in aviation history, is nonetheless gripping and Ruddock does a sound job.
He charts its several narrow escapes from an early grave, but ultimately fails to capture the spirit of O'Leary and the 
dogged, zany, ruthless and occasionally inspired role he played in the low-cost revolution.
The book is well researched and packed with detail. On occasion, however, this works against it.
How Ryanair enabled O'Leary to take flight
It suffers from a dull beginning, dealing with O'Leary's predictably humble origins in Westmeath and tales of his 
father's business failures that supposedly drove him from an early age towards success and great personal wealth.
There is too much history on Ryanair's early troubles, while readers are also treated to the near-bankruptcy of 
Ryan, following his disastrous involvement in the aborted flotation of his GPA aircraft leasing business, as well as 
the string of chief executives that came and went from Ryanair in the days before O'Leary took control.
It's decent background information, but readers who want the lowdown on O'Leary above all else will be 
disappointed.
Ruddock scores best when he concentrates on excerpts of interviews with O'Leary and anecdotes from those who 
worked with him or suffered by him.
He recounts how O'Leary cut his entrepreneurial teeth, leaving the straitjacket of a Dublin tax firm to buy a string of 
newsagents and make his first real money, before being summoned to work as Ryan's personal financial problem 
solver.
It is only when he takes over at Ryanair, however, that the book gets into full swing with O'Leary's ambitions - and 
achievements.
It reminds readers that O'Leary was not without luck - perhaps the most crucial attribute of any successful leader - 
as Ryanair's turnaround came at just the right time, following deregulation of European aviation markets and a key 
decision by British Airways to cease operating routes between Britain and Ireland, which gave him crucial breathing 
space and room to grow.
But O'Leary was as inspired as he was lucky. His education at the hands of a US low-cost carrier gave him the 
roadmap to make Ryanair succeed - by going to war on unnecessary costs and thinking the unthinkable.
The book also recalls that he faced down a bitter union challenge that astoundingly shut down Dublin Airport in 
1998, when 59 Ryanair baggage handlers went on strike and were soon followed by union members working for 
other airlines and even the airport's firemen.
Having dictated the way airline and airport staff should work since the days of the Wright brothers, the unions, it 
appeared, had finally met their match.
Ryanair worked because it deserved to work. But was it all down to O'Leary or could it have happened without him?
This book won't say. It understates his mistakes - he initially wanted to shut Ryanair down to stem losses, then later 
cost it millions after betting the wrong way on oil prices and unnecessarily created enemies at government and 
European level - just as it fails to recognise his ability to be breathtaking.
There's insufficient credit for the staggering deal he hammered out with plane manufacturer Boeing, which was on 
its knees after September 11 and practically gave away scores of planes at cost price to O'Leary in return for his 
endorsement - a decision that laid the groundwork for Ryanair's enormous expansion and which will benefit the 
airline for years to come.
And what of the sublime, mischievous swoop to take over Aer Lingus? The episode came at a bad time for 
Ruddock, just weeks before the book went to press.
In the end, one story in particular grasps O'Leary's devotion to cost control and willingness to put his airline above 
all else. When visiting Boeing headquarters in Seattle at the same time as Ryanair was taking delivery of a plane, 
O'Leary decided to take a lift home on it instead of booking a scheduled flight.
As he had only ordered the most basic design to keep the cost down, there were no reclinable seats and legroom 
was in short supply. O'Leary said nothing, however, and retired for a snooze on the aisle floor, between the seats.
How Ryanair enabled O'Leary to take flight
If Ryanair ever goes transatlantic, passengers hoping to fly to New York for the price of this book should expect 
nothing less.
Load-Date: September 9, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair targets Aer Lingus with Belfast route
Ryanair targets Aer Lingus with Belfast route
Sunday Business Post
September 9, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: THE MARKET
Length: 601 words
Body
Michael O'Leary may not talk softly, but he certainly carries a big stick. The Ryanair boss kicked up a predictable 
fuss last week over the refusal of Aer Lingus directors to grant his request for an egm to vote on the transfer of its 
ShannonHeathrow route to Belfast.
But it turned out his speciallyconvened press conference to denounce the Aer Lingus board was just a noisy 
sideshow.
Two days later, O'Leary produced the big stick that is likely to throw Aer Lingus's Belfast plans into chaos and 
immediately threaten to undermine the former state airline's new base in the North. The megaphone diplomacy over 
Shannon that has dogged Aer Lingus chief executive Dermot Mannion will continue over the coming weeks, on the 
back of Ryanair's sustained efforts to force the egm to be convened.
But while Aer Lingus's lawyers will be busy poring over the finer points of egm protocol, Mannion will be far more 
worried by O'Leary's decision to establish a base of his own in Belfast, which was announced last week. Ryanair's 
new heavyweight service from Belfast's City Airport to Stansted will compete with Aer Lingus's proposed route 
linking Belfast International with Heathrow.
Just as Ryanair sent Aer Lingus packing from Shannon, O'Leary has fired the first warning shot that he plans to do 
the same at Belfast. For Mannion, it is a depressingly familiar strategy.
Once O'Leary finally ended his self-imposed ban on launching new routes out of Ireland last year, Ryanair sharply 
turned up the heat on its takeover target.
Ryanair's extra capacity and new services from Dublin, Cork and Shannon have already had devastating effects on 
the Aer Lingus bottom line.
Ryanair targets Aer Lingus with Belfast route
Mannion warned investors last month that Aer Lingus's competitors had added 45 per cent more capacity on short-
haul routes from Ireland over the past year, a factor that was squeezing yields and profits as a result of heavy 
competition on prices.
Most of this extra capacity was down to O'Leary. Mannion's decision to switch from Shannon was seen in many 
quarters as an admission of defeat. Ryanair had already snatched two-thirds of the market for passengers travelling 
from Shannon to London and forced Aer Lingus to cut prices in response.
Although Shannon-Heathrow had been making money for Aer Lingus, it is understood the service was only 
marginally profitable and that the airline could make four times as much by operating from Belfast. That forecast 
now looks optimistic.
While Aer Lingus was confident it could take on the existing players on routes between Belfast and London - BMI 
and Easyjet - the arrival of Ryanair is bad news.
O'Leary will offer four flights a day on the route, one more than Aer Lingus, and has guaranteed to undercut rivals' 
prices. He can even afford to run the services at breakeven indefinitely if he so chooses, thanks to a &euro;2 billion 
cash pile that affords him the ability to axe prices for tactical reasons. Although Aer Lingus will hope that 
passengers will be drawn to Heathrow rather than Stansted, the fact that Belfast International is 30 kilometres out of 
town will add to the attractions of Ryanair's operations from the more centrally-located Belfast City.
The Shannon experience, which showed customers were happy to put up with flying to Stansted in return for lower 
fares, does not augur well for Mannion.
While his lawyers may succeed in avoiding an egm and a U-turn on Shannon, success in Belfast could be elusive.
Mannion recently complained that Ryanair's egm request was anti-competitive. It would be ironic, then, if it were 
competition rather than an egm that forced him out of Belfast in the end.
Load-Date: September 9, 2007
End of Document
Demand for Aer Lingus egm likely to lead to court
Demand for Aer Lingus egm likely to lead to court
Sunday Business Post
September 9, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: THE MARKET
Length: 653 words
Body
The controversy between Aer Lingus and Ryanair over the holding of an extraordinary general meeting (egm) to 
consider the axing of the Shannon to Heathrow route is no doubt causing teams of corporate lawyers who act for 
both companies to burn the midnight oil.
This dispute is raising interesting questions around the exercise of important shareholder rights and the impact of 
competition law on the exercise of those rights.
If Aer Lingus continues to resist calls for the holding of the egm, we could well see this issue before the High Court 
shortly.
Generally speaking, shareholder rights in Irish company law are quite limited, and it is left up to the board of 
directors to decide how best to run the company. Its fundamental obligation and fiduciary duty is to act in the best 
interests of the company as a whole and not to favour one particular shareholder or group of shareholders over 
another.
However, there are a number of statutory shareholder rights which shareholders have under the Companies Acts. 
One of these - and it is a fundamental one - is that which Ryanair is seeking to exercise in order to require the 
board to convene an egm. Basically, any shareholder who holds in excess of 10 per cent of the voting shares - as is 
the case with Ryanair - can exercise this right. Generally speaking, it imposes a legal obligation on the board to 
convene the egm.
The shareholder must set out in their request the resolutions that they want considered.
The shareholder cannot subsequently introduce further matters for consideration at the egm, although the board 
may do so.
Demand for Aer Lingus egm likely to lead to court
The initial request for the egm from Ryanair appears to have been rejected on the grounds that the resolutions 
proposed would contravene competition law and that the directors, in convening the egm, would be in breach of 
their fiduciary duties to the company and the shareholders as a whole.
Ryanair appears to have now issued another request with amended resolutions. Aer Lingus directors have 21 days 
to convene the egm. They may well continue to resist convening the meeting on the grounds already stated. There 
has been some English case law to the effect that if the resolutions proposed are incapable of being legally carried 
out, the directors may refuse to convene the egm.
However, I suspect this is by no means certain in the case of Aer Lingus. For there to be a contravention of 
competition law, there would have to be an agreement between at least two undertakings to fix prices or market 
share, the abuse of a dominant position, or some other anti-competitive behaviour.
It may be quite difficult to demonstrate that exercising a shareholder right, and proposing and voting in favour of 
particular resolutions, is itself illegal and in breach of competition law.
That leaves the directors of Aer Lingus in quite an uncomfortable position, whereby they are caught between 
possibly convening an egm which, if the resolutions were carried, would result in the reversal of a business decision 
with possible advantage to a competitor and adverse consequences for the company. Or the egm is not convened, 
and the directors are left open to a legal action (which could be a personal action against them) by its biggest 
shareholder and competitor.
The government also could be caught in a difficult position if the board does not convene the egm. Ryanair could 
then seek to exercise a right under company law for shareholders to convene the egm themselves.
This right has to be exercised by a majority of shareholders, so they would also need to get the state and the ESOP 
(employee share ownership plan) to participate in this.
The government's refusal to use its shareholding to cooperate may not go down well in the Shannon region. Neil 
Keenan is a partner specialising in corporate and commercial law with Lavery Kirby Gilmartin solicitors, Glasthule, 
Co Dublin. He is a member of the business law committee of the Law Society of Ireland.
Load-Date: September 9, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus passenger numbers grow in August
Aer Lingus passenger numbers grow in August
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 7, 2007 Friday 2:35 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 232 words
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Aer Lingus Group, Ireland's former state-owned airline, said Friday that it carried 11 percent more passengers in 
August as the holiday season boosted demand.
The airline, which has been sparring with its largest shareholder, rival Ryanair PLC, carried 891,000 passengers in 
August compared with 805,000 in the same month a year earlier, the company said in a statement.
The load factor or the amount of cargo and passenger space taken up on short-haul routes gained 1.5 percentage 
points to 79.8 percent as capacity climbed 10.8 percent.
Long-haul capacity rose nearly 30 percent through the introduction of two additional aircraft.
The decline in the long-haul load factor to 78.3 percent in August was partially due to the increased capacity, the 
company said.
Earlier this week, Ryanair which became the biggest Aer Lingus shareholder as it sought to take over the company 
demanded that Aer Lingus convene an emergency shareholders meeting. Aer Lingus directors had rejected 
Ryanair's initial request, saying it was seeking to manipulate a competitor's business plans for its own benefit.
European Union competition chiefs in June rejected Ryanair's takeover for Aer Lingus as likely to create an Irish 
monopoly. Ryanair pledged to sue to overturn the ruling, but its case isn't expected to be heard until 2009 at the 
earliest.
Aer Lingus shares dipped 1.6 percent to 2.49 euros ($3.40) in Dublin.
Load-Date: September 8, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus passenger numbers grow in August
Aer Lingus passenger numbers grow in August
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 7, 2007 Friday 2:26 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 231 words
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Aer Lingus Group, Ireland's former state-owned airline, said Friday that it carried 11 percent more passengers in 
August as the holiday season boosted demand.
The airline, which has been sparring with its largest shareholder, rival Ryanair PLC, carried 891,000 passengers in 
August compared with 805,000 in the same month a year earlier, the company said in a statement.
The load factor or the amount of cargo and passenger space taken up on short-haul routes gained 1.5 percentage 
points to 79.8 percent as capacity climbed 10.8 percent.
Long-haul capacity rose nearly 30 percent through the introduction of two additional aircraft.
The decline in the long-haul load factor to 78.3 percent in August was partially due to the increased capacity, the 
company said.
Earlier this week, Ryanair which became the biggest Aer Lingus shareholder as it sought to take over the company 
demanded that Aer Lingus convene an emergency shareholders meeting. Aer Lingus directors had rejected 
Ryanair's initial request, saying it was seeking to manipulate a competitor's business plans for its own benefit.
European Union competition chiefs in June rejected Ryanair's takeover for Aer Lingus as likely to create an Irish 
monopoly. Ryanair pledged to sue to overturn the ruling, but its case isn't expected to be heard until 2009 at the 
earliest.
Aer Lingus shares dipped 1.6 percent to €2.49 (US$3.40) in Dublin.
Load-Date: September 8, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down 1.5pc on Wall Street slump
ISEQ down 1.5pc on Wall Street slump
Business World (Digest) 
September 7, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 482 words
Highlight: The Dublin market slumped by 1.5pc today on the back of sharp falls on Wall Street.
Body
The Dublin market slumped by 1.5pc today on the back of sharp falls on Wall Street following the release of weak 
economic data.
The ISEQ index closed125.33 points lower this evening at 8,181.950. Those steep falls, which wiped just over one 
billion euro off the value of Irish stocks, were in line with other major bourses around the world.
In London, the FTSE100 was down 1.6pc, while in Paris the CAC 40 fell back 2.3pc and in Frankfurt the Dax was 
down 2.2pc.
 Across the Atlantic, the Dow Jones was down by 1.5pc, while the Nasdaq was off by around 2pc. Shares plunged 
after the US government yesterday reported that employers slashed 4,000 employees in August. This was the first 
time since October 2003 that numbers had declined. The surprise weak figures aggravated fears about the state of 
the US economy and cemented expectations the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates later this month. In Dublin, 
it was the financial shares which bore the brunt of the falls with AIB down 2.5pc, or 45c, to 17.73 and Bank of 
Ireland down 2pc, or 31c, to 12.92. Anglo Irish Bank and Irish Life and Permanent were also in the red, down 8c to 
13.92 and 31c to 17.45 respectively. Construction shares fared little better with CRH down 33c to 30.20, Grafton 
down 24c to 9.21 and Kingspan down 22c to 17.60. McInerney ended the day unchanged at 2.10. Other shares 
with considerable exposure to the US dollar, which fell sharply after the release of the US payrolls data, also 
slumped. Drug maker Elan was one of the hardest hit, falling 3.5pc, or 51c, to 14.26, while food group IAWS slipped 
4c to 15.01. Shares in Aer Lingus dropped by 3c to 2.44 despite the former state airline posting a 10.7pc rise in 
passenger numbers during August. Investor's were unimpressed by the company's load factor data (how full its 
planes are) which showed a 7.5pc decline. Meanwhile, shares in rival carrier Ryanair were down 11c at 5.10. 
Notable movers elsewhere included bookmaker Paddy Power, up 43c to 24.23, after it said earlier this week that 
profits more than doubled in the first half of the year. United Drug was also higher, up 3c to 3.68, while Newcourt 
added on 6c to 1.60 and Greencore jumped 15c to 4.85. Finance Ireland put in a positive performance, jumping 2c 
ISEQ down 1.5pc on Wall Street slump
to 0.11, while drinks group C and C tacked on 25c to close at 5.65. Elsewhere, Horizon made slight progress, 
adding on 1c to 0.98, after it posted strong figures for the first half of the year. The technology company reported 
EBITDA that was 10pc ahead of expectations on the back of revenue of E146.31m. The positive update prompted 
Davy Stockbrokers to say that Horizon's shares are "undervalued" compared to its peers. 'Based on the growth to 
date and future prospects for both the Irish service-based business and the UK infrastructure-oriented business, we 
feel that the stock is undervalued compared to its peers', Davy analysts said.
Load-Date: September 11, 2007
End of Document
Asian airlines warm to mobiles in the cabins
Asian airlines warm to mobiles in the cabins
Financial Times (London, England)
September 7, 2007 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 26
Length: 442 words
Byline: By RAPHAEL MINDER and MARK ODELL
Body
The small band of companies looking to bring mobile telephony to aircraft cabins received a boost this week when 
the first airlines from two of the world's fastest growing air travel markets signalled their intent to test the technology.
Kingfisher Airlines, one of India's most ambitious startups, and China's Shenzhen Airlines are both looking to 
pioneer the nascent technology in their respective markets, joining a growing list of carriers around the globe.
The industry is torn over whether passengers will welcome the use of mobiles onboard. The biggest concern is the 
annoyance factor. Commercially though, the industry is still smarting from the expensive failure of the fixed seat-
back phones introduced in the late 1990s. Extortionate call charges put customers off.
The US airlines industry, which was particularly hit by the previous foray airborne phones, has this time around 
taken a back seat.
In Europe, where mobile phone usage is more developed than in the US, Ryanair is aiming to become the first 
airline to introduce the service across its fleet. Other carriers, such as Air France, are waiting to start trials.
Some analysts believe that Asia is the region where the technology will receive the warmest welcome. "This is 
clearly a region that loves all that is new in consumer electronics,'' says Jim Eckes, an aviation consultant.
Providers of the technology recognise that in-flight telephone conversations face a "social etiquette" issue. But 
Peter Tuggey, chief commercial officer for Aero-Mobile, a partnership between Telenor of Norway and Arinc of the 
US, also stresses that higher noise on an aircraft means that conversations are in any case much harder to 
overhear than on a train. Further, each airline can adapt the system to its needs - notably by switching the system 
off during night flying. Qantas, for example, is limiting tests of the AeroMobile system to Blackberry and text 
message usage.
In light of the failed, seat-back phone experiment, the other issue is whether in-flight calls will prove profitable. The 
technology costs about Dollars 200,000 to install per aircraft. But Graham Lake, chief commercial officer at OnAir, 
Asian airlines warm to mobiles in the cabins
partly owned by Airbus and a competitor of AeroMobile, forecast revenues per aircraft could range from Dollars 
10,000 to Dollars 60,000 a month.
Still, many airline executives suggest they will wait to see how passengers react when flying with pioneers such as 
Kingfisher.
Tony Tyler, chief executive of Cathay Pacific, says the carrier was still "some way away" from using mobiles : "If 
you're talking to passengers, it doesn't seem that they want it. But if it was there, people would use it."
Load-Date: September 6, 2007
End of Document
Sluggish financials drag ISEQ lower
Sluggish financials drag ISEQ lower
Business World (Digest) 
September 7, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 109 words
Highlight: Financial shares slipped back this morning as the Dublin market got the session off to a sluggish start.
Body
Financial shares slipped back this morning as the Dublin market got the session off to a sluggish start.
Just before midday, the ISEQ index was down 37.92 points to 8269.36.
Shares in AIB were down by almost 2pc, or 35c to 17.85, while Bank of Ireland was fell 15c to 13.08 and Irish Life 
and Permanent slumped 19c to 17.57. Anglo Irish Bank bucked the negative trend, tacking on 1c to 14.03. 
 In the construction sector, CRH was down 17c to 30.36, while Kingspan was up 12c to 17.94 and McInerney was 
up 4c to 2.14. Grafton was up 5c to 9.50. Other notable movers included Paddy Power, up 16c to 24.19, Ryanair, 
up 4c to 5.26, and C and C, up 10c to 5.50.
Load-Date: September 11, 2007
End of Document
Slow progress to in-flight use of mobile phones
Slow progress to in-flight use of mobile phones
Financial Times (London, England)
September 7, 2007 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 26
Length: 138 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
The concept of mobiles on aircraft is gradually gathering steam, writes Kevin Done in London.
Benoit Debains, chief executive of OnAir, a joint venture between Sita and Airbus, said yesterday that the first 
commercial trial of its system could begin on board an Air France A318, around the turn of the year.
The A318 is the only aircraft certified by the European Aviation Safety Authority so far. All other aircraft types will 
need similar clearance: Ryanair is aiming to get EASA approval for the Boeing 737-800. But before any airline 
services can start, both national aviation and telecom regulators must also give the go-ahead.
The UK's BMI and Portugal's TAP will also plan trials early next year.
Mr Debains said in-flight use of mobiles would only be allowed above 10,000ft, with userscharged at international 
roaming rates.
Load-Date: September 6, 2007
End of Document
Airport sneaked in 'voluntary' charges
Airport sneaked in 'voluntary' charges
Financial Times (London, England)
September 7, 2007 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 14
Length: 178 words
Byline: By MATTHEW EDWARDS
Body
From Mr Matthew Edwards.
Sir, I took great interest in James Kelly's letter (September 5). I am a regular user of Liverpool John Lennon Airport 
and was outraged, to say the least, at the scandalous charges to use the "fast track" security lanes.
To spread some light on this: Liverpool Airport had intended to introduce this fee as a compulsory charge in 
January this year; however EasyJet, arguably one of the most important players in Liverpool Airport's revitalisation, 
had openly told its passengers to boycott this fee, and it was scrapped. I had hoped the plans had been shelved, 
but much to my annoyance they have reappeared in the shape of these "voluntary" charges.
More worryingly still, it has been speculated that other regional airports will introduce similar fees. Bearing in mind 
these are the airports that have tried to cut costs in order to appeal to low-cost airlines such as EasyJet and 
Ryanair, it seems that passengers are once again hit with hidden costs that further push up the price of their "low-
cost flights".
Matthew Edwards,
Wirral, Merseyside CH49
Load-Date: September 6, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down despite Elan , Siteserv surge
ISEQ down despite Elan, Siteserv surge
Business World (Digest) 
September 6, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 673 words
Highlight: The Dublin market ended a volatile session slightly lower today.
Body
The Dublin market ended a volatile session slightly lower today as sluggish construction shares outweighed strong 
gains in the likes of Elan and Siteserv.
The market had remained largely unchanged for much of the morning session, before falling sharply around 
lunchtime on speculation that Wall Street was set to open lower. 
However, a late rally left the ISEQ index just marginally lower at 8,307.280 - down 11.88 points on the session.
 Across the Atlantic, stocks waffled on Wall Street as investors, trying to gauge whether the economy is holding up 
in the face of a weakening housing market, grappled with mixed data ahead of Friday's jobs report. Back in Dublin, 
construction shares weighed heavy, with building materials giant CRH down a disappointing 83c to 30.52 and 
insulated panels manufacturer Kingspan down 47c to 17.83. Elsewhere in the sector, Grafton was down 7c at 9.53 
and McInerney was 2c lower at 2.10. Those falls countered a 3pc surge in shares in drug maker Elan on reports 
that its US partner, Biogen Idec, will tell investors in the coming days that it expects 100,000 patients to be using 
the Multiple Sclerosis treatment by the end of 2010. The news lifted shares in the company by 46c to 14.89. That 
performance was overshadowed by Siteserv, whose shares soared 13pc, or 9c, to 0.78 after it the construction 
services company announced another major acquisition. Financial shares put in a mixed performance as investors 
digested the latest outpourings from the European Central Bank on interest rates. The bank today said it was 
leaving rates unchanged at 4pc this month, but hinted strongly that rates will rise in the coming months. AIB and 
Bank of Ireland were both knocked by the news, with shares in the two institutions falling 13c to 18.12 and 7c to 
13.20 respectively. Irish Life and Permanent rallied late on to end the session 38c higher at 17.76, while Anglo Irish 
Bank tacked on 21c to 14.01 after it issued a strong pre-close trading update on Wednesday. Davy Stockbrokers 
said today that it has raised its earnings per share forecast for Anglo Irish to 130 for this year and 152c for 2008 - 
this represents an upgrade of 6.5pc and 5.5pc respectively. Other notable movers included concrete maker 
Readymix, down 7c to 1.93, food group IAWS, down 15c to 15.05, and explorer Dragon Oil, up 11c to 3.40. United 
ISEQ down despite Elan , Siteserv surge
Drug slipped 5c to 3.65, Paddy Power fell 13c to 23.80 and Greencore tacked on 5c to 4.70. Meanwhile, Ryanair 
was up 2c to 5.22 after the no-frills airline this week announced the opening of a new base in Belfast and reported a 
21pc rise in passengers for the month of August. Off flat 91pc loads. Davy said the August numbers were "very 
strong" and "in-line with expectations". Rival airline Aer Lingus ended the day 1c higher at 2.47. Elsewhere, shares 
in recruitment group CPL Resources jumped by almost 2pc after a leading stockbroker raised its recommendation 
on the stock. Goodbody said that it was now recommending the shares as a Buy ahead of the company's full year 
results, due for release next Tuesday. "We are expecting the company to report a 73pc increase in earnings on the 
back of the strong employment conditions seen over the past year," Goodbody analyst Philip O'Sullivan said. CPL's 
share price has retreated by around 25pc since May, led by concerns about the effect of the housing slowdown on 
jobs growth. "The firm now trades on 11.5x calendarised 2008 earnings, an 11pc discount to its peers and 15pc 
below its five year average rating. However, given that there are realistic prospects of upgrades (as our forecasts 
imply minimal sequential growth from the 24.1c expected in H207), the discount is likely to be even wider," Mr 
O'Sullivan added. "While the rating appears attractive, we draw further comfort from CPL's sizeable net cash per 
share (76c, or 12pc of the firm's share price) and track record (earnings growth north of 40pc in each of the last five 
years). All of these factors lead us to upgrade our recommendation to Buy on a new price target of E7.40."
Load-Date: September 10, 2007
End of Document
Phones on a plane In-flight use of mobiles is a deeply unattractive idea
Phones on a plane In-flight use of mobiles is a deeply unattractive idea
Financial Times (London, England)
September 6, 2007 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 12
Length: 375 words
Body
"I'm on the train" became the phrase that summed up inflicting banal mobile phone conversations on fellow 
passengers. Now, if some airlines have their way, "I'm on the plane" will follow.
Kingfisher Airlines, an Indian low-cost carrier, yesterday became the latest operator to say itwill introduce in-flight 
mobile phone use. Airlines such as Air-Asia, south-east Asia's biggest low-cost carrier, and European no-frills 
operator Ryanair are already committed to allowing mobile phoning in the air. Other airlines are testing the use of 
text messaging and BlackBerrying.
This prospect is seriously unappealing. The traveller who currently enjoys the enforced unavailability that comes 
with flying will not be grateful for the removal of this haven from the telephonic demands of work or family or both. In 
a busy existence, being uncontactable for set periods can be a significant benefit. And for every passenger who 
relishes the chance to make a call, there will be several others who re-sent having to listen to irritating ringtones 
and personal details within the cramped confines of the aircraft cabin. Flying already contains enough triggers for 
air rage.
Of course, some of these points can be addressed. Passengers could be asked to put their phones to vib-rate so 
they do not disturb neighbours when receiving a call or text. Pilots will control the service and are likely to switch to 
"silent mode" during night flying to minimise nuisance to those who want to sleep.
In response to social concerns, airlines might segregate the cabin, creating "mobile phone use" and "quiet" areas. 
When they checked in, passengers could specify where they wanted to sit. This would doubtless please the low-
cost carriers who are at the forefront of moves to bring mobile usage on board. They could charge some 
passengers a premium for being able to phone, while others would be happy to pay extra not to have to hear other 
people's calls.
Fortunately, the desire to chat on the phone to family, friends and colleagues at 35,000ft has its limits. Using 
handsets fixed in the cabin has not caught on as expected, because it is so expensive. So far, a successful 
business model for making phone calls in the air has proved elusive. Let us hope it continues to do so.
Phones on a plane In-flight use of mobiles is a deeply unattractive idea
Load-Date: September 5, 2007
End of Document
Kingfisher to offer in-flight mobile calls
Kingfisher to offer in-flight mobile calls
Financial Times (London, England)
September 6, 2007 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES UK; Pg. 24
Length: 425 words
Byline: By RAPHAEL MINDER
Dateline: HONG KONG 
Body
Kingfisher Airlines, the Indian low-cost carrier, yesterday said it would introduce in-flight mobile phone capability, 
underlining the increasing interest in the technology.
Kingfisher will initially fit the technology on 10 of its aircraft, but is looking to expand the offering to its entire fleet of 
158 aircraft. From next year, passengers will be able to use web chat and web mail, with mobile calls and full 
internet access available in 2009.
The push to introduce the technology appears to have reached a turning point. Ryanair, the European low-cost 
airline, is this week fitting out its first aircraft, as part of a plan to extend it to the rest of its fleet. Meanwhile, 
Shenzhen Airlines, a Chinese carrier, announced on Monday that it would introduce the capability in an effort to lure 
more business travellers.
In-flight mobile phones are being led by two companies. OnAir, which is partly owned by Airbus and signed the deal 
with Kingfisher, is competing against Aero-Mobile, which is owned by Arinc of the US and Telenor of Norway. 
AeroMobile is working with Panasonic, the Japanese electronics group.
OnAir had a European breakthrough in June when its technology was cleared by the European Aviation Safety 
Agency. US regulators, however, have refused to allow any in-flight mobile phone technology.
AeroMobile expects to announce soon another four airline deals, three of them in the Asia-Pacific region.
Peter Tuggey, AeroMobile's chief commercial officer, said the growing order book reflected Asians' embrace of new 
consumer electronics technology as well as their more relaxed attitude to phoning in public.
He said: "We're seeing a lot of interest in Asia. If you look at the way mobile phones are used, Asians are generally 
using them in very densely populated areas, so the social concerns are perhaps handled in a different way."
Kingfisher to offer in-flight mobile calls
In-flight mobile calls are to some extent also adding another facet to the rivalry between Airbus and Boeing, the 
world's largest aircraft manufacturers. Airbus owns 30 per cent of OnAir, as well the hardware maker for the 
technology, KID-Systeme. Meanwhile, lack of demand recently convinced Boeing to withdraw its Connexion by 
Boeing wireless e-mail and internet system and the US group remains doubtful that mobile phoning will prove any 
more popular with passengers.
Robert Laird, a Boeing vice-president, said: "For wireless, the technology was there but it never got the response 
that was expected. For mobile phoning, the problem the airlines will have to deal with is not technological but 
social."
Load-Date: September 5, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair creates new base at Belfast City
Ryanair creates new base at Belfast City
Business World (Digest) 
September 6, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 150 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that it would create its 23rd European base at George Best BCA.
Body
Ryanair today said that it would create its 23rd European base at George Best Belfast City airport (BCA).
From October 30, Ryanair plans to base a new USD70m Boeing 737-800 aircraft at BCA, which will operate a new 
four times daily service to London Stansted and a new second daily service from Belfast to Liverpool.
Ryanair stepped into the Belfast slot following Air Berlin's decision to move away from the airport. 
 'This additional commitment to Belfast City Airport means we will offering more choice to passengers travelling to 
London. Additionally, we welcome Ryanair's intention to expand the European route portfolio from this base. Great 
news for the economy and tourism in Northern Ireland,' said Brian Ambrose, chief executive of BCA in a statement. 
The services from Belfast to Heathrow are due to start on January 14 and should see even greater competition 
between Ryanair and Aer Lingus.
Load-Date: September 10, 2007
End of Document
E2bn wiped off the value of Irish shares
E2bn wiped off the value of Irish shares
Business World (Digest) 
September 5, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 494 words
Highlight: A little over E2bn was wiped off the value of Irish shares today.
Body
A little over E2bn was wiped off the value of Irish shares today as the recent calm on world stock markets came to 
an abrupt halt.
Sharp falls on Wall Street sent major bourses around the world sharply lower, with financial shares providing the 
main drag.
US stocks fell sharply as jittery investors sold off on a report showing a large drop in pending home sales. By the 
close in Dublin, the Dow Jones industrial average was down by 160 points.
 The National Association of Realtors said pending sales of existing homes fell in July to the lowest level in nearly 
six years. Though the report did support the argument for an interest rate cut, it also worried investors who are 
nervous about the housing market growing so weak that it drags the economy into recession. Investors' concerns 
about spreading fallout from market turmoil also intensified after the European Central Bank said it would consider 
steps to curb recent euro money market upheaval. The ECB is to announce its latest interest rate decision 
tomorrow. It was widely assumed in early August that the European Central Bank would raise its main lending rate, 
but recent turmoil on financial markets has cast this into doubt. Back in Dublin, the ISEQ index was down by almost 
2.5pc, or 195.86 points, to 8,319.160 - having closed in positive territory for five consecutive sessions before today. 
The banks bore the brunt of the falls with AIB down 50c to 18.25, Bank of Ireland down 30c to 13.27 and Irish Life 
and Permanent down 70c to 17.37. Anglo Irish Bank, which has very little exposure to the US, was unchanged at 
13.80 after it today signalled record full-year results. Construction shares fared little better with CRH down 50c to 
31.35, Grafton down 24c to 9.60 and Kingspan down 54c to 18.30. McInerney was flat at 2.12. Other notable 
movers included Ryanair, down 20c to 5.20, Independent News and Media, down 5pc, or 15c, to 3.15 and Aer 
Lingus, down 7c to 2.48. Elsewhere, C and C ended the session 5c lower at 5.35, while FBD Holdings dropped 22c 
to 25.80. Paddy Power was down 42c to 23.93 on profit taking after the bookmaker earlier this week said that profits 
doubled in the first six months of the year. Meanwhile, shares in Total Produce, the fresh fruit spin off from Fyffes, 
E2bn wiped off the value of Irish shares
soared by 6pc, or 6c, to 0.70 after it raised its earnings forecast for the full year. The firm said pre-tax profits jumped 
by 10.5pc in the first half, boosted by acquisitions and a remarkable six-month revenue figure of E1.22bn. The 
positive trading update prompted Davy Stockbrokers to raise its full year guidance for the company also. "Full-year 
earnings per share growth is now expected to be high-single-digit, and we have raised forecast growth for the full 
year 2007 to 8pc (6.6pc previously). A similar rate of growth is forecast for next year. Two critical trading months 
remain in this financial year, the outcome of which may create some upside to our forecast," Davy analyst John 
O'Reilly said.
Load-Date: September 7, 2007
End of Document
Tour groups lose court fight on air duty
Tour groups lose court fight on air duty
Financial Times (London, England)
September 5, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 371 words
Byline: By ROGER BLITZ
Body
Tour operators who opposed Gordon Brown's decision to double air passenger duty (APD) last year failed in a High 
Court challenge to the move yesterday.
The increase - announced by the then chancellor inhis pre-Budget report last December as a measure to help 
combat climate change - is alleged to have cost the industry Pounds 50m since it came into effect in February.
The Federation of Tour Operators(FTO), together with Tui and Kuoni, two of its members, pointed out they had no 
warning of the increase, meaning they could not pass it on to customers already booked to fly.
They argued that APD represented a breach of human rights and international civil aviation law. The increase has 
pushed up APD on short-haul flights leaving the UK from Pounds 5 to Pounds 10 per economy-class passenger. 
On long-haul flights, APD has risen to Pounds 40 for economy and Pounds 80 for business class.
Mr Brown's move brought about sustained publicity campaigns by airlines and tour operators, led by Michael 
O'Leary's Ryanair.
Mr Justice Stanley Burnton ruled that APD was a lawful charge and that the government was entitled to increase it.
He said he had "some sympathy" with the tour operators. He criticised the Treasury's decision-making process, 
saying that package travel regulations had been ignored. But he concluded there was no legal basis for the High 
Court challenge.
The judge said: "The claimants have not established any of their grounds for challenging APD or its increase." 
However, the FTO and others had "emphatically" brought to the government's attention the impact of APD, he 
added, saying the decision to impose the increase was made regardless of the effect. The FTO was refused 
permission to appeal but can still ask the Court of Appeal directly to consider its case.
The FTO said it was disappointed at the outcome, but added: "There are wider potential international ramifications 
of the judgment, and these and other aspects will be considered as the FTO seeks advice on its grounds for 
possible appeal."
Tour groups lose court fight on air duty
Andy Cooper of the FTO said the implication of the ruling would have a bearing on US-EU talks over whether 
aviation should be included in Europe's carbon emissions trading scheme - something the US is resisting.
Load-Date: September 4, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers grow 21 pct in August
Ryanair passenger numbers grow 21 pct in August
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 5, 2007 Wednesday 10:27 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 70 words
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair Holdings PLC said passenger numbers in August grew 21 pct against the same month a 
year ago.
Ryanair said it carried 4,844,000 passengers last month compared with 4,002,000 in August 2006. In the 12 months 
to August 2007, 46,104,000 passengers travelled with the Dublin-based airline.
Ryanair added that its load factor in August - how full its aircraft were - was flat against a year ago at 91 pct.
Load-Date: September 5, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair requisitions Aer Lingus EGM
Ryanair requisitions Aer Lingus EGM
Financial Times (London, England)
September 5, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES UK; Pg. 21
Length: 273 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE
Body
The battle between the Irish carriers leading Irish airlines Ryanair
Aer Lingus, which last year defeated a hostile takeover bid by Europe's leading low-cost carrier, last week rejected 
Ryanair's original call for an extraordinary meeting on the grounds that the resolutions proposed by its rival would 
result in a breach of European and Irish competition law.
Ryanair rejected the claim but changed the terms of the resolution it is proposing to an EGM to focus on what it said 
had been a "collapse" in Aer Lingus profits.
In recent weeks, Ryanair has built up its stake in Aer Lingus to 29.4 per cent and has overtaken the Irish 
government to become the biggest shareholder.
Last month it stepped into the political controversy over its rival's decision to quit the Shannon-Heathrow route and 
called for the EGM in an attempt to overturn the decision and to influence other route changes.
In its requisition notice, Ryanair said "in view of the recently announced 58 per cent decline" in Aer Lingus profits in 
the first half of the year, the directors should preserve the "profitable Shannon-Heathrow services" and explore the 
further Euros 4m (Pounds 2.7m) of cost cuts identified by Shannon airport.
In a letter to John Sharman, Aer Lingus chairman, Jim Callaghan, Ryanair company secretary, said the Aer Lingus 
board had "no legal right" to reject Ryanair's request given that Ryanair held more than 10 per cent.
Ryanair it warned that it could call the EGM itself or it could start legal proceedings against Aer Lingus and its 
directors for "this unlawful rejection of a legally valid EGM request".
Aer Lingus declined to comment last night
Load-Date: September 4, 2007
Ryanair requisitions Aer Lingus EGM
End of Document
Wednesday papers: tips and comment
Wednesday papers: tips and comment
Citywire
September 5, 2007 Wednesday 8:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 216 words
Body
Tips and comment from Wednesday papers.
* Two rival attempts to create benchmark futures contracts to trade Middle East crude oil are struggling after 
attracting only poor investor interest* Quantitative hedge funds shrug off concerns over returns and seek investors 
(FT p17)* Jack Petchey picks up 29% of Teesland trust (FT p18)
* Alliance & Leicester has published a detailed analysis of its investments in debt securities, in an effort to reassure 
investors. * Plain sailing at Admiral as premiums increase (FT p20)*Ryanair requisitions Aer Lingus EGM (FT p21)* 
Private equity groups join queue to take look at EMAP operations
* Merger activity put on hold as banks battle debt mountain (Times p46)* Bmi drops American dream to look at 
Middle East and Central Asia (Times p47)* Land Securities looks at break-up (Telegraph p1 Business)* Liquidity 
crisis grows as rates gap hits 20-year high (Telegraph p1 Business)* US watchdog to investigate Mattel reporting 
(Telegraph p4 Business)
TipsTHE TIMESThe Tempus Column* Hays Sell* Kazakhmys No more than a hold* SCi Entertainment Buy on 
weakness
Tiddler to Watch* Advanced Medical Solutions
THE DAILY TELEGRAPHThe Questor Column* Premier Foods Buy* Tullow Oil Buy* Hays Hold
THE INDEPENDENTThe Investment Column* Kazakhmys Buy* Paddy Power Buy* Playtech Buy
Load-Date: September 8, 2007
End of Document
Atlantic Alliance to meet Minister
Atlantic Alliance to meet Minister
Business World (Digest) 
September 5, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 133 words
Highlight: The Atlantic Connectivity Alliance will meet Minister Dempsey today.
Body
The Atlantic Connectivity Alliance, the pressure group composing business and tourism leaders in the West, will 
meet Minister Dempsey today in an attempt to have Aer Lingus' decision to cut its Shannon/Heathrow service 
reversed.
The Alliance said last month's surprise move by Aer Lingus to transfer the slots to Belfast will put jobs at risk in local 
business and tourism sectors.
Mr Dempsey is earlier expected to brief the Cabinet on the latest developments at its weekly meeting in 
Government Buildings.
 Representatives of the Alliance will later hold face-to-face talks with Mr Dempsey in his Department offices. 
Ryanair yesterday made a fresh bid to force an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of Aer Lingus shareholders. 
The former state airline earlier rejected the budget carrier's demands.
Load-Date: September 7, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair says load factor flat in August
Ryanair says load factor flat in August
Business World (Digest) 
September 5, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 52 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said that its passenger load factor - how full its aircraft were - remained flat in August at 
91pc.
Body
Ryanair today said that its passenger load factor - how full its aircraft were - remained flat in August at 91pc.
The airline said it carried 4,844,000 passengers during the month compared with 4,002,000 in August 2006. 
In the 12 months to August 2007, 46.1 million passengers travelled with the Dublin-based airline.
Load-Date: September 7, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ flat despite 5pc Anglo Irish surge
ISEQ flat despite 5pc Anglo Irish surge
Business World (Digest) 
September 5, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 170 words
Highlight: The Dublin market was flat this morning despite a near 5pc surge in shares in Anglo Irish Bank.
Body
The Dublin market was flat this morning despite a near 5pc surge in shares in Anglo Irish Bank after it today 
signalled a record full-year performance.
Just before midday, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was up 1.89 points to 8,516.91.
Anglo Irish said in a pre-close statement today that it will deliver "strong results" for the year ended 30 September 
2007 and that its earnings per share will exceed current estimated market consensus of 124 cent by 5 cent.
 The news lifted shares in the institution by 66c to 14.46. Elsewhere, in the financial sector, AIB was up 8c to 18.83, 
while Bank of Ireland was down 5c at 13.53 and Irish Life and Permanent was 7c higher at 18.15. Meanwhile, Total 
Produce made strong start to the session, jumping 5pc, or 3c, to 0.69 after it posted today reported a 10.5pc rise in 
pre-tax profits on revenues that jumped by a third thanks to acquisitions. Other notable movers this morning 
included Paddy Power, down 25c to 24.10, Qualceram Shires, down 17c to 1.63 and Ryanair, down 2c at 5.38.
Load-Date: September 7, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair demands that rival Aer Lingus call shareholder meeting on service changes
Ryanair demands that rival Aer Lingus call shareholder meeting on service 
changes
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 4, 2007 Tuesday 7:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 513 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Ryanair demanded Tuesday that Aer Lingus call an emergency shareholders meeting over a planned transfer of 
key air connections to London's Heathrow Airport.
Ryanair, which has become the biggest Aer Lingus shareholder as it seeks to take over the previously state-owned 
airline, said Aer Lingus had 21 days to respond.
Aer Lingus says it wants to move key links to Heathrow, Europe's busiest airport, to a new hub in Belfast, Northern 
Ireland, from Shannon airport in western Ireland. Its says the connection to Northern Ireland is likely to be more 
profitable.
But the plan, to begin in mid-January, has angered people in western Ireland, which is the scenic centerpiece of 
Ireland's tourism industry but struggles to attract foreign investment away from Dublin.
On Friday, Aer Lingus directors rejected Ryanair's initial request for an extraordinary general meeting.
In a statement Tuesday, Ryanair said its position as the major shareholder meant that Aer Lingus must respond 
positively to its new, formal "notice of requisition of an extraordinary general meeting."
Aer Lingus said it was "noting the content" of Ryanair's message and would "respond if required."
Ryanair published the text of its proposed motion seeking a reversal of Aer Lingus' plan to axe services between 
Shannon and Heathrow, Europe's busiest airport.
It calls on Aer Lingus directors "to preserve the company's existing profitable Shannon-Heathrow services and 
explore the 4 million euro ($5.5 million) per annum additional cost reductions recently identified by the Shannon 
Airport Authority to enhance shareholder returns."
Ryanair demands that rival Aer Lingus call shareholder meeting on service changes
Ryanair currently owns 29.4 percent of Aer Lingus. The government sold a 75 percent stake in the airline on the 
British and Irish stock exchanges 12 months ago. The government retained a 25 percent stake.
Analysts say Ryanair's push for a shareholder vote on the issue is designed to embarrass the government, which 
would like to preserve the Shannon-Heathrow routes but doesn't want to be seen to be meddling in Aer Lingus 
affairs.
"We wish they (Aer Lingus directors) didn't make that decision. But that's what they did, and that's a commercial 
decision whether we like it or not," Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said.
Business leaders in the west's two major cities, Galway and Limerick, say the region will lose thousands of jobs if 
foreign companies cannot keep international connections through Heathrow.
European Union competition chiefs in June rejected Ryanair's takeover terms for Aer Lingus as likely to create an 
Irish monopoly. The takeover bid was already foundering because both the government and Aer Lingus employee-
controlled trusts, holding more than 20 percent of shares, opposed a takeover by Ryanair.
But the employees are largely opposed to Aer Lingus' plan to cut jobs in Shannon and hire pilots and others under 
new, non-union contracts in Northern Ireland. Analysts say Ryanair could be trying to demonstrate to individual 
employees, if not labor union chiefs, that a Ryanair-run Aer Lingus would be more professionally operated. Ryanair 
refuses to recognize unions.
Load-Date: September 5, 2007
End of Document
Ireland 's airline war deepens as Ryanair demands shareholder meeting with rival Aer Lingus
Ireland's airline war deepens as Ryanair demands shareholder meeting with 
rival Aer Lingus
Associated Press Financial Wire
September 4, 2007 Tuesday 4:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 662 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
The war of words between Ireland's rival airlines deepened Tuesday as Ryanair demanded that Aer Lingus 
convene an emergency shareholders meeting.
Ryanair, which has become the biggest Aer Lingus shareholder as it seeks to take over the previously state-owned 
airline, said Aer Lingus had 21 days to respond.
On Friday, Aer Lingus directors rejected Ryanair's initial request for an extraordinary general meeting. It would be 
asked to vote on the directors' recent, deeply controversial decision to transfer key air links with London's Heathrow 
Airport from Ireland's major western airport, Shannon, to a new hub in the British territory of Northern Ireland.
But in a statement, Ryanair said its position as the major shareholder meant that Aer Lingus must respond 
positively to its new, formal "notice of requisition of an extraordinary general meeting."
Ryanair published the text of its proposed motion seeking a reversal of Aer Lingus' plan to axe services between 
Shannon and Heathrow, Europe's busiest airport.
The Ryanair motion noted that Aer Lingus' half-year results, published Thursday, reported a drop in pre-tax profits 
but ignored the fact its net profits rose.
It calls on Aer Lingus directors "to preserve the company's existing profitable Shannon-Heathrow services and 
explore the €4 million (US$5.5 million) per annum additional cost reductions recently identified by the Shannon 
Airport Authority to enhance shareholder returns."
Aer Lingus said it was "noting the content" of Ryanair's message and would "respond if required."
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary said his airline would convene a shareholders meeting itself if Aer Lingus 
rejected or ignored Tuesday's appeal. He said, under Irish corporate law, Aer Lingus directors would be liable for 
the meeting's cost.
Ireland 's airline war deepens as Ryanair demands shareholder meeting with rival Aer Lingus
O'Leary said he was considering booking the most expensive hotel in Dublin and offering shareholders free drinks 
at the bar, and the cost would be deducted from the income of Aer Lingus directors. "One can but dream," he said.
O'Leary called Aer Lingus' decision to axe a profitable Shannon-Heathrow route "bizarre." He said the smarter 
course was "to stay on the route and maximize profits."
Ryanair currently owns 29.4 percent of Aer Lingus, which the government floated on the British and Irish stock 
exchanges 12 months ago. The government retained a 25 percent stake.
Analysts say Ryanair's push for a shareholder vote on the issue is designed to embarrass the government, which 
would like to preserve the Shannon-Heathrow routes but doesn't want to be seen to be meddling in Aer Lingus 
affairs.
"We wish they (Aer Lingus directors) didn't make that decision. But that's what they did, and that's a commercial 
decision whether we like it or not," Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said.
Aer Lingus says it wants to move the use of its strategic Heathrow slots from Shannon to Belfast because the latter 
is likely to be more profitable.
But the plan, to begin in mid-January, has whipped up anger in western Ireland, which is the scenic centerpiece of 
Ireland's tourism industry but struggles to attract foreign investment away from Dublin.
Business leaders in the west's two major cities, Galway and Limerick, say the region will lose thousands of jobs if 
foreign companies cannot keep international connections through Heathrow.
European Union competition chiefs in June rejected Ryanair's takeover terms for Aer Lingus as likely to create an 
Irish monopoly. The takeover bid was already foundering because both the government and Aer Lingus employee-
controlled trusts, holding more than 20 percent of shares, opposed Ryanair.
But the employees are largely opposed to Aer Lingus' plan to cut jobs in Shannon and hire pilots and others under 
new, non-union contracts in Northern Ireland. Analysts say Ryanair could be trying to demonstrate to individual 
employees, if not labor union chiefs, that a Ryanair-run Aer Lingus would be more professionally operated. Ryanair 
refuses to recognize unions.
Load-Date: September 5, 2007
End of Document
Milan shares TFN at a glance outlook
Milan shares TFN at a glance outlook
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 4, 2007 Tuesday 7:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 203 words
Body
Share prices are expected to open flat to lower on some profit-taking.
Yesterday, the Mibtel index finished up 0.34 pct at 31,389 while the S&P/Mib rose 0.23 pct to end at 40,281 on 
volumes worth some 2.946 bln eur.
FORTHCOMING EVENTS
Today
-Italy June foreign trade (10.00 am)
-Ryanair press conference on Italy (11.00 am)
-Energy conference, Milan (6.00 pm)
TODAY'S PRESS
-BPM sees Carige, Popolare dell'Etruria as possible tie-up partners (Finanza & Mercati)
-Alitalia to cut 150 flights at Milan airport Malpensa (Il Sole 24 Ore)
-Enel shortlisted to build nuclear power plant in Bulgaria (Il Sole 24 Ore)
-Brazilian high court may allow today Anatel to examine Telco stake in Telecom Italia (La Stampa)
COMPANY NEWS
-UBI's Popolare di Bergamo H1 net rises 29.8 pct on higher revenues
-Unipol Banca ratings downgraded following reorganisation - Moody's
MACROECONOMIC/POLITICS/MISCELLANEOUS
-Italy August new car registrations 103,750, up 6.77 pct vs yr earlier
-Italy Aug public sector deficit 2.700 bln eur vs 7.774 bln yr ago
Milan shares TFN at a glance outlook
-Italy July hourly wages up 0.1 pct vs June; up 1.8 pct yr-on-yr
-Italy August manufacturing PMI 53.6 vs 53.3 in July; consensus 52.9 - sources
MARKET NEWS, SENTIMENT
-Telecom Italia upped to 'buy' at Citigroup
Load-Date: September 4, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair calls for EGM of Aer Lingus to preserve Shannon-Heathrow services
Ryanair calls for EGM of Aer Lingus to preserve Shannon-Heathrow services
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 4, 2007 Tuesday 3:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 108 words
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair Holdings PLC said it had demanded a meeting of Aer Lingus shareholders to call on the 
Irish flag carrier to maintain its profitable Shannon-Heathrow services.
Ryanair said it was issuing a Notice of Requisition for an extraordinary general meeting of Aer Lingus to table a 
resolution including the demand.
It said its request should be considered 'in view of the recently announced 58 pct decline in the company's interim 
profits.'
The Dublin-based airline also said Aer Lingus should explore the 4 mln eur per year of additional cost reductions 
recently identified by the Shannon Airport Authority to enhance shareholder returns.
Load-Date: September 4, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair could be interested in Alitalia 's Malpensa, Milan slots
Ryanair could be interested in Alitalia's Malpensa, Milan slots
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
September 4, 2007 Tuesday 11:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 189 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC could be interested in take-off and landing slots at Milan's Malpensa airport, which Alitalia 
SpA could give up, said Alessia Viviani, Ryanair sales and marketing manager for Italy.
Newspaper reports say that Alitalia plans to cut 150-170 of its daily 340 flights from Malpensa airport as part of a 
scaling down of this hub in a business plan to turnaround the airline.
'We invite Malpensa airport to come to Dublin to talk about new routes, and possible plans,' said Viviani, referring to 
Ryanair's Irish headquarters.
Viviani gave no further details on the invitation for SEA, the company which operates Milan's Malpensa and Linate 
airports, to meet Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary.
All the same, Ryanair continues its policy of operating from cheaper, secondary airports, such as at Bergamo, near 
Milan, where it has sufficient space for its expansion plans, she said.
'We invite Malpensa to come for a meeting. Then we see. Italy is important for Ryanair. Everything is possible,' she 
said.
Italy is Ryanair's second largest market after the UK, representing 16-17 pct of overall group activities, she said.
Load-Date: September 4, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair interested in Alitalia 's slots?
Ryanair interested in Alitalia's slots?
Business World (Digest) 
September 4, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 187 words
Highlight: Ryanair could be interested in take-off and landing slots at Milan's Malpensa airport.
Body
Ryanair could be interested in take-off and landing slots at Milan's Malpensa airport, which Alitalia SpA could give 
up, said Alessia Viviani, Ryanair sales and marketing manager for Italy.
Newspaper reports say that Alitalia plans to cut 150-170 of its daily 340 flights from Malpensa airport as part of a 
scaling down of this hub in a business plan to turnaround the airline.
'We invite Malpensa airport to come to Dublin to talk about new routes, and possible plans,' said Viviani, referring to 
Ryanair's Irish headquarters.
 Viviani gave no further details on the invitation for SEA, the company which operates Milan's Malpensa and Linate 
airports, to meet Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary. All the same, Ryanair continues its policy of operating 
from cheaper, secondary airports, such as at Bergamo, near Milan, where it has sufficient space for its expansion 
plans, she said. 'We invite Malpensa to come for a meeting. Then we see. Italy is important for Ryanair. Everything 
is possible,' she said. Italy is Ryanair's second largest market after the UK, representing 16-17pc of overall group 
activities, she said.
Load-Date: September 6, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair in fresh Aer Lingus EGM call
Ryanair in fresh Aer Lingus EGM call
Business World (Digest) 
September 4, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 107 words
Highlight: Ryanair today demanded a meeting of Aer Lingus shareholders.
Body
Ryanair today demanded a meeting of Aer Lingus shareholders to call on the former state airline to maintain its 
profitable Shannon-Heathrow services.
Ryanair told a press conference in Dublin this afternoon that it was issuing a Notice of Requisition for an 
extraordinary general meeting of Aer Lingus to table a resolution including the demand.
It said its request should be considered 'in view of the recently announced 58pc decline in the company's interim 
profits.'
 Ryanair also said Aer Lingus should explore the E4m per year of additional cost reductions recently identified by 
the Shannon Airport Authority to enhance shareholder returns.
Load-Date: September 6, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ jumps 38pts, Readymix up 3pc
ISEQ jumps 38pts, Readymix up 3pc
Business World (Digest) 
September 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 491 words
Highlight: The Dublin market edged modestly higher yesterday on the back of a 3pc surge in shares in concrete 
maker Readymix and bookmaker Paddy Power.
Body
The Dublin market edged modestly higher yesterday on the back of a 3pc surge in shares in concrete maker 
Readymix and bookmaker Paddy Power.
The ISEQ index of Irish shares ended the session 38.42 points higher at 8439.35.
Trading was light with US markets, which often give Dublin much of its direction, closed for the Labour Day holiday.
 Shares in Readymix were buoyed by the news that the company has pocketed E49m from the sale of part of its 
pre-cast concrete products business. Shares were up 7c to 1.97. Paddy Power was also notable higher, up 85c to 
23.00, ahead of the release of its interim results today. Goodbody Stockbrokers is forecasting "exceptionally strong 
earnings per share growth" of 95pc, driven by solid sales growth of 14pc. The broker also expects gross win to 
increase by a substantially higher 25pc, due to an anticipated improvement in its sports results. "Overall, we expect 
a very strong set of numbers from Paddy Power tomorrow, which should serve to underpin our recently upgraded 
forecasts. The company's pre-close statement (which prompted a E4m upgrade to full-year operating profit) noted 
that H1 has tended to be the stronger half for the company and that "this is likely to be particularly pronounced in 
2007. "In 2003 and 2004, H1 EPS represented 59pc of the full year outturn, while this reversed to 44pc last year. 
Our estimate of the H1 outcome is for EPS to be 63pc of the full-year forecast. The statement should also give an 
update on trading in the past two months. H2 last year had above average gross win margins, so we expect the 
bulk of the year's growth falls into the interim period in 2007," Goodbody's Liam Igoe said. In the construction 
sector, CRH was up 15c to 31.95, Grafton was up 14c to 9.94 and McInerney was off 3c at 2.11. Kingspan was also 
lower in the early stages, down 15c to 18.85, despite the company yesterday issuing what Goodbody called an 
"exceptional" set of first half interims. Elsewhere, the airlines edged higher with Aer Lingus up 8c to 2.50 and 
Ryanair up 7c to 5.38. Other notable movers included Siteserv, up 6c to 0.66, Petroceltic, up 3c to 0.17, and TVC 
Holdings, up 7c to 1.35. Meanwhile, Kerry nudged up 5c to 17.90 as it investors await its interim results today. 
ISEQ jumps 38pts, Readymix up 3pc
Goodbody is forecasting earnings per share of just over 5pc at the food company. "We expect earnings per share 
growth to be similar to our full-year forecast, at just over 5pc. Positive influences of circa 3pc organic growth, cost 
efficiency programmes and share buy-backs will be partly offset by the impact of a weaker dollar and rising input 
costs," Goodbody's Liam Igoe said. "We expect profit growth to be strongest in its US and Asia Pacific regions, with 
Europe proving to be the laggard in coping with raw material cost pressures. The H1 results will benefit from the 
inclusion of the April 2006 acquisition of Custom and Nuvex Ingredients, though the net impact will be modest," Mr 
Igoe added.
Load-Date: September 6, 2007
End of Document
News in Brief
News in Brief
Business World (Digest) 
September 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 102 words
Highlight: Sean Dunne is promising to spend E31m on the local community for a 37-storey skyscraper in 
Ballsbridge.
Body
### The Employment Appeals Tribunal is to accept submissions on the business relationship between an Irish and 
a Turkish construction company following a claim by a Turkish worker that he is owed E160,000 in back pay. The 
Irish Times
### Sean Dunne is promising to spend E31m on the local community in an apparent bid to reduce opposition to his 
plans for a 37-storey skyscraper in Ballsbridge. The Irish Independent
### Government has revealed it will not collude with the Ryanair 'sideshow' to force an emergency shareholder 
meeting over the national airline's withdrawal from Shannon Airport. The Irish Independent
Load-Date: September 5, 2007
End of Document
O'Leary paid almost E1m by Ryanair
O'Leary paid almost E1m by Ryanair
Business World (Digest) 
September 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 91 words
Highlight: Ryanair chief executive Micheal O'Leary was paid almost one million euro last year.
Body
Ryanair chief executive Micheal O'Leary pocketed almost one million euro last year, the company's annual report 
has revealed.
The document shows that Mr O'Leary was paid a total of E992,000 in the year to the end of March - up 23pc on the 
previous year.
The remuneration package was made up of his salary of E565,000 (up 2.7pc on the previous year) and a bonus of 
E365,000 (up from E200,000 on the previous year).
 The report also reveals that Ryanair added almost 1,000 staff during the 12 month period, taking its total staff count 
to just under 4,000.
Load-Date: September 5, 2007
End of Document
Irish firm trading for just three years sells assets for &euro;1.8 billion
Irish firm trading for just three years sells assets for &euro;1.8 billion
Sunday Business Post
September 2, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 274 words
Body
Trinergy, a Dublin energy firm, has sold its wind energy portfolio in a &euro;1.8 billion deal.
The company, which was set up by Irish businessman Paul Williams three years ago, has sold the international 
portfolio to International Power, a global power firm. It is paying Trinergy shareholders &euro;868 million in cash 
and will take on a large portion of the company's debt.
Between cash and debt, the total enterprise value of the deal is &euro;1,839 million, according to a statement 
issued by International Power's office in London last Friday.
Trinergy is backed by the London-based Matrix Group and a number of private investors. Williams holds a 
significant minority stake in the business and will be a beneficiary of the deal.
Among the firm's directors is Dublin solicitor and businessman James Osborne, who has sat on the boards of 
Ryanair, PJ Carroll and Heineken Ireland. The sale of the wind assets to International Power came after an 
extended bidding process, handled by RBC Capital Markets.
Germany energy giant Eon and Italy's Sorgenia were believed to be among the bidders. Last year, Trinergy 
concluded a &euro;1.1 billion debt refinancing, underwritten by Royal Bank of Scotland and with Bank of Ireland, 
HBOS and Commerzbank participating.
Trinergy is the largest wind energy developer in Italy, with 485megawatts of assets producing electricity and a 
further 67 megawatts under construction. It also has 86megawatts in production in Germany.
In a statement on the deal, Williams said: ''We continue to focus on investment opportunities in the renewable 
sector and are looking forward to developing our project pipeline further''.
Load-Date: September 2, 2007
Irish firm trading for just three years sells assets for &euro;1.8 billion
End of Document
Boardroom: Will Carroll do a deal on ICG?
Boardroom: Will Carroll do a deal on ICG?
Sunday Business Post
September 2, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS FEATURES
Length: 751 words
Body
The ICG saga continues to trundle on, despite the efforts of the board to bring matters to a conclusion. There would 
now seem to be only one clear way out.
The highest bid on the table is from the Aella group, backed by Eamonn Rothwell and his management team, which 
has offered &euro;24a share.
The rival bidder, Philip Lynch's Moonduster's &euro;22 a share offer has thus been trumped, but remains sitting 
with a 2.4 per cent stake. Sitting in the middle is property developer Liam Carroll, who has built up his stake to 19.7 
per cent.
The Aella consortium still has to go through a process before formally launching its offer, including an extraordinary 
general meeting to get shareholder approval.
But with the support of the independent board directors and no sign of a higher rival offer, it is clearly in the driving 
seat. That said, it needs 75 per cent acceptance to get its bid accepted, and Moonduster and Carroll could 
theoretically stymie this, if neither accepted.
Sources now believe that the most likely outcome is for Carroll and Aella to strike a deal. Carroll's interest is in the 
land owned by the company at Dublin Port.
Meanwhile, the management's interest is in running the business. And Philip Lynch would surely not object to 
heading off with a profit.
Entering the era of the examiner
The examinership process for businesses in trouble is used rarely enough in Ireland - perhaps by a dozen or so 
companies a year, on average, in recent years.
Boardroom: Will Carroll do a deal on ICG?
Introduced in 1990 to help the troubled Goodman International, the expense of the process and the reluctance of 
creditors may have been one factor deterring wider use for a process perhaps more appropriate for medium-sized 
to larger firms.
However, with the economy entering a tricky period, the era of the examiner may be upon us.
Several of Boardroom's sources say that there is now a queue of companies likely to head in this direction over the 
coming months, some of them hit by the slowdown in the construction sector.
Liquidations practitioners are, of course, also sharpening their pencils. There are a few interesting months ahead.
Ryanair's delaying tactics
Ryanair will not win any brownie points with the travelling public if its threatened court action holds up the building of 
a second terminal at Dublin Airport. Of course, brownie points is not what Michael O'Leary is after.
He may have some legitimate points about the scale and expense of the proposed development - and the 
extraordinary political machinations over the decision may not have delivered an ideal outcome.
But, at this stage, there are more than 22 million passengers a year being squeezed into terminal one, and the 
travelling public will just want to see Declan Collier's Dublin Airport Authority get on and build the new terminal.
If Ryanair does go ahead with a legal challenge, much will depend on the attitude of the High Court. A full hearing 
could delay matters significantly. However, the High Court could first ask Ryanair to prove that it has a prima facie 
case: were the court to rule that it did not, any delay would be minimised.
Given that the whole process has trundled right through the planning system, Boardroom's legal friends say it could 
be difficult for the budget airline to find sufficient legal grounds to mount a challenge. In the meantime, however, its 
senior executives are getting plenty of TV and radio time.
Bush puts pressure on ECB
Boardroom alluded last week to the $100 billion bail-out of the failed savings and loans in the US in the 
1980s,which had basically related to a crisis in their mortgage books, partly precipitated by rising interest rates.
Sound familiar? Well, we thought something similar might happen this time, but the market was taken aback by the 
speed with which President George W Bush has moved.
Searching, no doubt, for something populist to cling to, he has called for a federal guarantee for borrowers at risk of 
default, which will help many to refinance their loans and avoid losing their homes.
Following the US Federal Reserve Board's decision to cut the discount rate at which it supplies funds to the banking 
system - though not, yet at least, the more important Fed funds rate - the Bush move will surely put even more 
pressure on the European Central Bank to hold off increasing interest rates this Thursday.
If the US does all this, the ECB - while not admitting it - will not want to be the one seen to upset the markets again. 
Or will the ECB hawks hold sway and push through an increase, despite the risks?
Load-Date: September 2, 2007
End of Document
Squeeze tightens on Aer Lingus
Squeeze tightens on Aer Lingus
Sunday Business Post
September 2, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: THE MARKET
Length: 876 words
Body
Despite a solid performance from the airline, its interim results show how Ryanair's expansion on routes out of 
Ireland has taken its toll.
Twelve months ago, Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary said in an interview with this newspaper that he would 
shortly ''put the squeeze'' on Aer Lingus and ''kill'' it on European routes out of Dublin.
In the meantime, O'Leary may have failed in his &euro;1.5 billion takeover attempt, but Aer Lingus can still feel his 
squeeze tightening.
The former state airline's half-year results, released last week, showed the devastating effect of O'Leary's decision 
last year to put the era of Dublin Airport bashing behind him and ramp up the no-frills giant's operations out of 
Ireland with an unprecedented number of new routes, including 18 from Dublin alone.
Aer Lingus reported operating profits of &euro;1 million for the six months to June, after an &euro;8 million 
operating loss for the same period last year. Revenues were 13 per cent ahead at &euro;574 million.
Dermot Mannion, the chief executive of Aer Lingus, described the performance as ''solid'', but warned investors that 
the step-up in competition on routes out of Ireland had been severe.
''The planned capacity from our competitors in our home bases to continental routes increased by 45 per cent in the 
first half of 2007 over the equivalent period last year," he said.
O'Leary had delivered on his promise to attack Aer Lingus on routes to the continent - one of the top growth 
opportunities identified by Mannion in the run-up to last year's IPO. And it hurt.
Aer Lingus's short-haul capacity increased by 12 per cent, but passenger numbers were ahead by just 6.5 per cent. 
Average short-haul fares inched ahead by 3 per cent as extra competition put pressure on yields.
Squeeze tightens on Aer Lingus
The first half of the year is traditionally quieter for airlines as they make most of their money from summer and 
Christmas holidays in the second half. In that environment, Aer Lingus's near-breakeven performance was seen by 
the markets as satisfactory.
The airline itself pointed to a number of successes, in particular its ancillary revenues, which jumped by &euro;20 
million to &euro;50 million on the back of new charges for check-in baggage, while it acquitted itself well in dealing 
with higher oil prices, which added 25 per cent to the fuel bill.
But there was plenty for the glass-half-empty merchants too. Last month's aborted pilots' strike cost Aer Lingus 
&euro;3.5 million in lost revenues and payments to other airlines - including Ryanair - for leasing aircraft to help 
maintain certain services.
It also emerged that the airline had racked up a further &euro;8 million in costs associated with defending itself 
against the Ryanair takeover, bringing the total spent on legal and financial advisers to a whopping &euro;24 
million.
These costs will be enough to wipe out a full year's worth of benefits from a new cost reduction programme, dubbed 
PCI-07,which the airline is struggling to implement.
But management remained defiant. ''While we have made significant progress in reducing costs in recent years, a 
legacy of inappropriate work practices and inefficiencies remains," said Mannion.
''Management is fully committed to the delivery of shareholder value through long-term profitability. The 
achievement of a sustainable cost base and the elimination of unacceptable work practices are key elements of this 
and management will take all steps necessary to bring them about."
It was fine rhetoric, but Mannion's ability to deliver remains unclear. Staff costs jumped 12 per cent in the first half 
on the back of pay rises and higher pension payments granted in return for union consent to the IPO. They need to 
start travelling in the other direction.
But if the airline can be paralysed by pilots upset at the relatively innocuous decision to establish a new base in 
Belfast, it is difficult to see how plans to launch a serious offensive on costs could be pushed through without similar 
difficulties.
Where O'Leary can continuously push through fresh initiatives to take costs out of his airline, Mannion's task is far 
more complicated thanks to the presence of unions that appear ready to push the strike button at will, regardless of 
the longer-term consequences for all concerned.
He must also juggle the requirements of running an under-pressure airline with the corporate-level battles to force 
through his plan to axe the Shannon-Heathrow route in favour of new operations from Belfast.
Further twists are expected in the Shannon drama despite the Aer Lingus board's decision last week to throw out 
Ryanair's request for an egm to allow shareholders to vote on the plan. It is a distraction that is set to continue for a 
number of weeks and will make it more difficult for Mannion to focus on the job in hand.
Mannion's position is unrecognisable from just a year ago, when he could congratulate himself on a job well done in 
steering the airline towards the stock exchange.
But the subsequent 12 months have seen his job transformed to one of fighting fire after fire. O'Leary, on the other 
hand, goes from strength to strength and can even find the time to create trouble for his takeover target at will. 
Sadly for Mannion, he won't be finished squeezing anytime soon.
Load-Date: September 2, 2007
Squeeze tightens on Aer Lingus
End of Document
Aer ace
Aer ace
Sunday Business Post
September 2, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: PROFILE
Length: 1813 words
Body
If Aer Lingus chairman John Sharman really harboured the desire to head the board of the former state company, 
then he has been in the right place at the right time.
If he never really wanted to take up the role, then he has continually been in the wrong place at the wrong time. It 
must have felt like the latter in recent weeks, as Aer Lingus was once more thrown into political, business and tribal 
turmoil.
The controversy over the airline's decision to withdraw flights between Shannon and Heathrow, in favour of the 
more lucrative Belfast/Heathrow route, has all the ingredients for a Sharman nightmare. He doesn't like publicity. He 
is a relative stranger to the machinations of Irish regional politics. He doesn't enjoy confrontation.
Yet Sharman does remain committed to seeing through the commercial changes required to transform Aer Lingus 
into a competitive private sector operator.
With the arrival of Michael O'Leary's Ryanair - which has built a 29 per cent stake in Aer Lingus - into the fray, Aer 
Lingus was being pushed towards a very public extraordinary general meeting on the issue. It has now decided not 
to proceed with an egm.
The egm, chaired by Sharman, could have turned into a media circus. Two things have marked his period on the 
board of Aer Lingus.
Firstly, the incredible changes taking place around him have meant that the quietly-spoken aviation banker has 
remained in the job a lot longer than he probably wanted. Secondly, there has been the incomplete transformation 
of Aer Lingus from state company to truly commercial airline.
Sharman was appointed to the board of Aer Lingus as a non-executive director in 2003 by Seamus Brennan, the 
then minister for transport. Sharman's expertise in the world of aviation finance made him an obvious candidate for 
the post.
Aer ace
Even today, he remains one of the few non-executives on the board of Aer Lingus - aside from solicitor Ivor 
Fitzpatrick, who likes to fly his helicopter - to have extensive aviation experience. His knowledge of the Irish 
business and political scene was a little more scant.
He had worked for Guinness Peat Aviation and met Brennan's brother Eamonn,who is chief executive of the Irish 
Aviation Authority. The two had met when they worked on a project relating to the privatisation of Britain's air traffic 
control network.
Sharman's vast experience in arranging finance for airlines around the world was relevant at a time when Aer 
Lingus was looking to spend more than &euro;1 billion on new aircraft. It seemed like a logical step for Sharman to 
become a non-executive director.
But then, things began to happen really quickly. Tom Mulcahy, the then Aer Lingus chairman and former chief 
executive of AIB, had to resign from the airline when it emerged that he was one of several AIB executives 
described as having ''tax issues'' in an internal bank probe.
Sharman was appointed acting chairman in July 2004 and, by the end of that year, his agreed period as chairman 
had been extended three times.
Then, Aer Lingus chief executive Willie Walsh and his two senior management colleagues, Seamus Kearney and 
Brian Dunne, left the company. Sharman was asked to step in as executive chairman until a new chief executive 
could be found.
''Sharman had gone from having a nice quiet non-executive role to running the airline in the space of a few 
months," said one board source.
''It wasn't what he had expected and probably wasn't what he had wanted," said another company insider.
Sharman took over during a very difficult period for the airline. It was still a privatisation candidate, although the 
government appeared to be stalling on the issue. Walsh's cost-cutting reforms were still only half implemented. Now 
the accidental chairman had become the accidental chief executive.
To add even more fuel to the flames, an internal Aer Lingus human resources memowas leaked to a daily 
newspaper. It outlined a series of environmental ''push'' factors that were to be used to encourage staff to apply for 
the company's voluntary redundancy programme.
The memo talked about the introduction of family-unfriendly shift patterns, ''tedious'' training programmes, and cabin 
crew having to wear jump-suits. The media-shy Sharman, who had declined all press interviews when Walsh left, 
had to come out and face a public relations nightmare.
He couldn't deny the existence of the memo, but did indicate that there was never any intention to introduce these 
measures. The entire incident fuelled mistrust between management and unions on the voluntary nature of the 
redundancy programme.
It didn't endear Sharman to the unions either. Months later, another newspaper story emerged which suggested 
that the unions at Aer Lingus had approached a number of business people about replacing Sharman as chairman.
There was speculation that media mogul Tony O'Reilly had been asked if he was interested in taking up the job.
The Impact trade union categorically denied that any approaches had been made, but people were left with the 
feeling that Sharman was not the staff's number one man for the job.
Seamus Brennan appreciated Sharman's decision to become acting chairman at a time when the job carried a 
remuneration of just &euro;19,000 per year. He appreciated it even more when the Englishman agreed to step in as 
executive chairman for five months.
Aer ace
He was paid &euro;272,000 during the period. ''Brennan then asked would he stay on as chairman just for a little 
while longer. Sharman agreed and the next thing Brennan was gone and replaced by Martin Cullen," said one 
source close to the chairman.
While Sharman had been the government's eyes and ears at Aer Lingus, it was felt that a new chairman should be 
found after the privatisation. This would finally allow Sharman to slip back into the relatively quiet non-executive 
director role for which he had signed up.
But the chairmanship of Aer Lingus is no longer the plum job it once was. Several high-profile business people are 
believed to have been asked to step in - including former Unilever chief executive Niall FitzGerald, Glen Dimplex 
founder Martin Naughton, former Anglo Irish Bank chief executive Sean FitzPatrick and CRH chairman Pat Molloy - 
but there were no takers.
Sharman would have to steer the company through its stock market flotation. For him, it would be a new 
experience. But, at the same time, he had little choice. If he had stepped down as chairman in the runup to a 
flotation, it would have been very damaging.
Dermot Mannion, the new chief executive of Aer Lingus, was only in the job for a short time and it would have 
meant further upheaval. Sharman agreed to stay on until March 2007.Then along came Ryanair's O'Leary. His 
audacious bid for Aer Lingus immediately after it floated put the company on the defensive.
Sharman headed up the board subcommittee which handled the airline's defence strategy. ''Some people around 
the board table felt they would have preferred a chairman with more experience of corporate battle, but overall 
Sharman has not done a bad job," said one company insider.
Aer Lingu has spent almost &euro;24million on its defence from a Ryanair takeover, which is a huge amount of 
money given that it was effectively blocked by regulatory authorities anyway. The controversy of the Ryanair bid 
meant that Sharman could not get off the pitch as chairman once again.
''It would be wrong to assume he just doesn't want to be chairman," said one source close to him. ''He loves the 
aviation industry. He gets a huge buzz out of being involved at this level. But this maybe wasn't what he had 
envisaged when he joined the board."
Sharman had his term as chairman extended again in March and company sources expect him to stay on until the 
end of next year. ''If he were to go now, it might be interpreted that he was not fully supportive of what management 
are doing. In reality, he is totally behind the plans for the company, and he wants to see it right through to the end, 
where Aer Lingus becomes a fully commercialised private-sector player," said another source close to the board.
That means further cost cuts and further industrial relations issues. It also means that Sharman won't encourage a 
U-turn on the Shannon issue. He may have been successful in the relatively turbulence-free world of finance, but he 
is now accumulating experience of a different kind.
Always quick to smile or laugh, Sharman is seen as a very affable and capable chairman. Yet, when it comes to 
addressing a group of staff in Shannon or county councillors from Limerick, some people in the company were 
afraid that he might put his foot in it.
''You wouldn't know how he would handle a tense local situation like that. He was coming to this as an Englishman 
without intimate knowledge of the history and nuances of Irish politics and Shannon," said one company source.
''He will always take a brief on something, read it thoroughly and know what he needs to know," said another.
''We wouldn't feel he was a bad man for the job. . .maybe not the best man for it," is how one trade union official 
described Sharman. Others view him and Aer Lingus management with complete suspicion and believe the airline 
is moving towards a complete ''Ryanisation''.
Aer ace
Sharman's background in the industry is impressive, albeit mainly on the financing side. Originally from Cumbria 
and educated at Oxford, he started his career at Rolls-Royce, which awarded him an industrial scholarship in 1967. 
After that, he joined First National Finance as a trainee management accountant. From 1973 to 1980, he worked in 
Singapore for the United Overseas Bank Group, specialising in ship finance.
Sharman returned to Europe and was made managing director of Guinness Peat Midland, a joint venture between 
GPA and Midland Bank designed to develop aircraft financing products. In 1985, he set up Spectrum Capital Group 
in London.
During the last 22 years, he has been a key player in the international aviation finance sector, and was included in 
lists of the top 50 players in the industry.
''Sharman's office in London has so many model planes from all the deals he has done over the years that it looks 
like a toy shop," said one source.
''His contacts among European airline chief executives are second to none. He always knows what's going on in the 
airline industry."
Sharman was appointed to the Aerospace Committee of the Department of Trade & Industry in Britain.
He has also had some experience of Irish Oireachtas committees. When the ''push factors'' memo was leaked, 
Sharman had to face a grilling on front of the Oireachtas Transport Committee and he joked beforehand about how 
he was worried that, as a chairman of a semi-state company, he might be asked to give his answers in Irish. 
Sharman's new-found knowledge of the Irish business and political scene clearly doesn't stretch as far as ar 
dteanga fein, but he will need to talk the talk in the days ahead.
Load-Date: September 2, 2007
End of Document
Joined-up planning essential to terminal
Joined-up planning essential to terminal
Sunday Business Post
September 2, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT AND ANALYSIS
Length: 473 words
Body
Few sagas in Irish public life have gone on as long as that of the second terminal in Dublin Airport.
After interminable politicking and deep disagreements between Fianna Fail and the Progressive Democrats in the 
previous two governments, the government finally gave the go-ahead in 2005 for the Dublin Airport Authority (DAA) 
to build the new terminal.
Following a lengthy planning process, including public hearings, An Bord Pleanala finally gave its go-ahead last 
week, subject to certain conditions. And still there is a threat of further delays due to the possibility of legal action 
from Ryanair.
Much of the blame for this delay lies with the previous government. For whatever reason, the second terminal 
became a cause celebre between Fianna Fail and the PDs and at a wider level, with the trade unions.
At the end, a messy compromise involved allowing the DAA to build and operate the second terminal, but 
committing that a future third terminal would be privately built.
The whole process was so convoluted and drawn-out that the solution that has been arrived at may well not be the 
optimal one. There are legitimate questions about the specification of the new facility and even its location.
However, at least we now have a plan - albeit years too late - and it is clearly in the interest of passengers that the 
DAA now proceeds to build it, as quickly as possible.
The existing terminal is heavily overcrowded and is creaking at the seams, despite the addition of new piers and 
facilities. Further delay in building it would prolong the suffering of the travelling public and threaten the further 
expansion of air routes from Dublin.
Whatever its reservations, Ryanair must realise that were it to succeed in any legal action, the result would be years 
and years of further delay, which would surely be in nobody's interest.
Joined-up planning essential to terminal
Assuming it can get ahead and start building, a heavy responsibility now falls on the DAA to deliver the project on 
budget and on time. However, Fingal County Council, the local authority and the various other bodies responsible 
for road and rail links also have a key role to play.
If the second terminal is to operate and grow successfully, then it is essential appropriate road links are put in, that 
proper parking is provided - at an appropriate price - and that the Metro is completed to the airport as part of an 
integrated public transport package.
This is the kind of joined-up planning and delivery at which this state has so often fallen down in the past. Given that 
we have been waiting so long for the second terminal, it is now essential that building commences promptly and 
there is a clear focus on also delivering the appropriate supporting infrastructure.
And while a whole host of quangos will be involved, the government and the Minister for Transport must realise that 
the buck stops with them.
Load-Date: September 2, 2007
End of Document
Shannon will face demands from any new airline
Shannon will face demands from any new airline
Sunday Business Post
September 2, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 430 words
Body
Shannon Airport could lose millions of euro even if a new airline takes over the Shannon to Heathrow route from 
Aer Lingus, because a newcomer would be likely to demand low charges and the co-financing of a new marketing 
campaign, according to airport sources.
The Shannon Airport Authority (SAA)w ants Aer Lingus to reverse its recent decision to transfer the Heathrow slots 
to a new Belfast base, both because of the global connectivity opened up by the service and the strong revenue 
generated on the route.
A &euro;36 million restructuring plan agreed for the airport last March was to save &euro;10 million a year, but there 
are now fears this could be significantly slashed, according to SAA sources. Almost 320,000 passengers used the 
profitable Heathrow route last year, making up about 10 per cent of traffic through the airport.
Because of the full landing charges on the route, it generated almost 20 per cent of annual revenue at the airport. 
The authority is in talks with three other airlines about introducing a replacement service, but only two of these - 
British Midland and British Airways - have slots at Heathrow.
The authority is discussing with Cityjet the possibility of services to London City Airport and Paris or Amsterdam. 
The SAA has told Aer Lingus that the airline could make an extra &euro;4 million a year on the Shannon-Heathrow 
route, by cutting its cost base at Shannon and through a reduction in landing charges on the route.
''Because of this public offer, airlines willing to take over the slots can play hard ball,'' one source close to SAA said. 
''They know everyone in Shannon is desperate to keep the route, and can therefore almost negotiate their own 
terms.
''This could see most, or all, of the revenue from these landing charges evaporate. A new airline could also demand 
significant funding for a marketing campaign for a relaunched service. SAA don't want to have to deal with such 
costs."
Shannon will face demands from any new airline
Negotiations on possible new operators of the Heathrow service are to continue for several weeks. Ryanair, which 
holds a 29 per cent stake in Aer Lingus, had called for an egm to vote on the matter, but Aer Lingus rejected these 
calls last Friday. Tadgh Kearney, a board member of the SAA, said the government should act to protect the 
Heathrow slots.
''Former transport minister Martin Cullen twice said in the Dail that the slots were of strategic importance and must 
remain in place. The government now realises that we need a solution to this problem and they cannot view 
maintaining these slots as ad hoc random interference in a public company."
Load-Date: September 2, 2007
End of Document
Bathed in Basque bliss
Bathed in Basque bliss
Sunday Business Post
September 2, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AGENDA
Length: 1338 words
Body
For therapeutic pampering, gourmet dining and cultural treats on a balmy coast, go Basque, writes Vanessa 
O'Loughlin.
The Basque region of southern France and northern Spain has an age-old tradition as a spa destination.
It has long been popular with discerning French and Spanish holidaymakers who seek their relaxation a world away 
from the crowded southern costas.
The recent arrival of budget airlines to the region means discerning Irish holidaymakers now have access to a 
wealth of spa hotels that offer good value and all the sun, sea and sand you can stand.
Aer Lingus flies into Bilbao in northern Spain and Ryanair flies to Biarritz in France, close to the Spanish border. 
Small, well organised and only ten minutes by car from its advertised destination, Biarritz airport is an exceptional 
arrival point.
The town, with its fine 18th century architecture, luscious cuisine and magnificent Atlantic position, has been an 
elegant seaside resort for hundreds of years. These days it is better known as a mecca for surfers, but its 
constitutional spa heritage should not be forgotten.
About 15 minutes south of Biarritz in St-Jean-de-Luz, the Thalassotherapie Helianthal pays homage to the town's 
golden era in the roaring 20s when Charlie Chaplin, Gloria Swanson and Ernest Hemingway were all regular 
visitors.
The modern hotel is styled on a luxury liner with art deco furnishings. Sitting on the decked terrace overlooking one 
of the most beautiful bays on the coast, I almost expected Hercule Poirot to arrive in one of the hotel's standard-
issue robes.
Bathed in Basque bliss
At breakfast it is de rigueur to sport your robe over swimwear and it is recommended that guests eat a large hearty 
meal before their treatments.
Apparently the exercise of pure relaxation requires a lot of energy. Who was I to argue? The hotel's 
thalassotherapie spa uses fresh water is heated to body temperature (33*C) in all its treatments - from traditional 
manual massages and seaweed wraps to a range of jacuzzi-style jet water treatments.
I had the bain cap minceur an elaborate jacuzzi filled with essential oils which pumps jets of water targeting problem 
areas, including the cellulite on thighs and tension in the shoulders.
My favourite was the affusion massage - a fine rain of warm water streamed down my spine while essential oils 
were massaged into my back. A truly heavenly experience.
The only thing to do after such a relaxing treatment is to glide over to the hotel's marine area and enjoy the 300-
squaremetre heated seawater pool, Turkish baths and sauna.
Helianthal also has a cardio training and muscle-strengthening room with aerobic and aquarobic classes run almost 
hourly. But it was hard to summon that kind of energy, particularly as the pool offers direct access to a perfectly-
manicured sandy beach.
If you're up early enough you can see a team of workers coiffing the sands for the day ahead. Unadulterated 
relaxation is a serious business in this part of the world.
The holistic approach of the region's spa hotels means mealtimes are another joy to behold. The Basque people 
take a pride in their fresh cuisine so that choosing a healthy option is no sacrifice. Exquisite three-course meals that 
form part of Helianthal's detox packages are available with as few as 400 calories.
Pre and post-natal spa breaks are another fashion trend in France, and Helianthal offers creche facilities for 
children from two months up to six years free with its post-natal packages.
Although the spa is a destination in itself, I felt I had to part with my luxury robe and explore St-Jean-de-Luz, which 
is one of the most picturesque of all the Basque resorts.
The seaside town, a favoured holiday destination of Napoleon III and his empress, Eugenie, is steeped in history. In 
1660, King Louis IX married Marie-Therese of Spain in the town's beautifully preserved St John the Baptist church 
which is open to public.
The main square is packed without door cafes under shady trees and local artists congregate here to paint and sell 
their works.
Away from the sandy beaches, misty mountains tower over villages of stone nestled in rolling hills and valleys. The 
entire region has retained a picture-postcard beauty due to strict planning laws forcing new developments to adhere 
to traditional designs using the Basque colours of red, green and white.
Colours, like flavours and passions, run strong here. The traditional Basque bold striped tablecloths and house 
linens are available at a fraction of the price we would pay here.
Most shops offer reasonable overseas delivery rates and online shopping, so it's easy to avoid lugging back your 
bulk bargains and paying through the nose for them as extra luggage on your budget airline.
The Basque region is also considered the home of golf in France and there are several top quality courses in the 
area.
Helianthal, like many hotels in the region, offers special packages that can be tailor-made to combine spa 
treatments for golfing widows while the men are out putting and driving.
Bathed in Basque bliss
French rugby National League (LNR) president and one the Basque country's most revered sons, Serge Blanco, 
has spear-headed the marriage of 'thalasso cures' with golf and rugby. Ten minutes south of St Jean-de-Luz in 
Hendaye, Thalassotherapie Serge Blanco is the main seafront hotel.
The vibrant town has a two kilometre long sandy beach that stretches from the Deux Jumeaux to Bidassoa, the 
natural frontier with Spain. It is home to an 853-berth yacht harbour in front of the Sokoburu complex which includes 
hotels, shops, galleries, pubs, restaurants and a casino.
Blanco's chain of hotels offers the full range of thalassothe rapie treatments in a luxury environment with gourmet 
food, a gain at a fraction of Irish prices.
Facilities at the 92-room three-star hotel in Hendaye include 320 spare-metre heated seawater pool with more than 
50 activities/treatments (including hydrojets),a giant outdoor heated jacuzzi, saunas, a hammam and a gym.
The centre offers the full array of beauty/relaxation treatments, but there is an emphasis on holistic care. Four 
doctors,1 2 physiotherapists and a dietician are included in the army of staff ready to remedy any aches or pains.
From Hendaye, it is well worth making the short trip to the thriving seaside town of Irun over the border, which takes 
about 20minutes by land or ten by sea.
People spill out of every bar where there's plenty of live music and pinchos - the Basque version of tapas - to soak 
up the alcohol.
Heading back to Biarritz for the return flight, we stopped off for one more indulgent meal at Chateau de Brindos in 
Anglet just five minutes from the airport.
The magnificent estate sits in a four-hectare wooded park with ten-hectare private lake, clearly landmarked as you 
fly into Biarritz.
The beautifully renovated 1930s chateau has managed to keep its style and elegance with its architecture of 
Hispano Moresque inspiration. A fitting end to a perfectly pampered break.
FACT FILE
Getting there: Ryanair offers daily flights to Biarritz from Dublin and Shannon www.ryanair.com.
Where to stay: Helianthal Saint Jean-de-Luz, Place Maurice Ravel, 64504, Saint-Jean-de-Luz. Tel: 0033-5-
59515151; helianthal@helianthal.fr; www.helianthal.fr.
Weekend packages available from &euro;434pp include four spa treatments, breakfasts and two traditional 
'Gourmande' meals as well as access to all spa facilities. The hotel does not charge a single supplement.
Complex Serge Blanco, 125 Bd de la mer, 64700, Hendaye. Tel: 0033-5-59513535 info@thalassoblanco.com; 
www.thalassoblanco.com. Weekend golf and rugby packages combining thalasso for one or both guests are 
available from &euro;272.
Chateau de Brindos, 1 allee du Chateau, 64600 Anglet, Biarritz, France Tel: 0033-5-59238980
What to buy: itsy-bitsy teeny-weeny bikinis are essential for your treatments
What to avoid: going over Ryanair's strict 15k baggage rule. Shipping is available with your shopping and you are 
still able to bag bargains at the rates available.
Useful websites: www.tourisme-aquitaine.fr;            www.bearn-basquecountry.com
Load-Date: September 2, 2007
Bathed in Basque bliss
End of Document
Government's baffling decision
Government's baffling decision
Sunday Business Post
September 2, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT AND ANALYSIS
Length: 1302 words
Body
If the government won't use its Aer Lingus shares for the greater good of the Shannon region's economy, what's the 
point of having them?
It is a well recognised fact that transport access to a region - either by sea, road, rail or air - is an essential part of 
the process of generating economic activity.
Those with a serious interest in the economic and social development of the mid-west correctly conclude that the 
removal of the Heathrow route from Shannon represents a serious downgrading of the airport and indeed of the 
region.
Quite simply, it does not send out very positive signals about the mid-west as a region in which to locate business. 
Bearing in mind this reality, it should not come as a surprise to anybody that the Aer Lingus decision has attracted 
such a strong reaction. The role of government in this whole sorry affair should not be forgotten and it should not be 
let off the hook this time.
It is not difficult to understand where the management at Aer Lingus are coming from. They have concluded that 
they would generate greater profits out of Belfast than out of Shannon and as a consequence, have taken a 
commercial decision.
That is the nature of how a private company operates; generating profits is the only real objective and any other 
consequences are secondary.
However, Aer Lingus is not a privatised company in the purest sense, given that the government still has a 25 per 
cent shareholding in it. As a major shareholder, the government has every right to protect its broader interests.
These broader interests obviously include the value of its shareholding, but they should also include the greater 
good of the economy and every region within that economy.
Government's baffling decision
The Taoiseach has argued that the decision of government not to stand in the way of the initiative has helped 
maintain the share price of the company in the midst of turbulent market conditions. That statement makes no 
sense whatsoever and is disingenuous in the extreme.
Institutional investors and others who bought into the Aer Lingus privatisation knew exactly what they were buying 
into. They were buying into an airline that is heavily unionised, that is much less flexible than its major competitor, 
Ryanair, and that is 25 per cent owned by the government.
Consequently, they should not be surprised that the airline could lose &euro;3.5 million due to a threatened pilots' 
strike, &euro;8 million in staving off an attempted takeover by Ryanair, or that the government as a major 
shareholder might move to protect the broader interests of the economy. Investors knew exactly what they were 
buying into and to suggest otherwise is utter nonsense.
In the IPO document, it is stated that the Articles of Association of the company contain provisions requiring 
shareholder approval for the disposal of slots allocated to the company at Heathrow. It also states that if Aer Lingus 
proposes to dispose of any of its existing slots at Heathrow, it is required to notify its shareholders in the manner set 
out in its Articles of Association.
The Articles make a provision that shareholders representing 20 per cent or more of the issued ordinary shares of 
the company may require, within 28 days of notification, that the matter be submitted to an extraordinary general 
meeting (egm).
The government would appear to be taking the view - and has probably got legal advice to that effect - that the 
decision to move the Heathrow slots from Shannon to Belfast does not constitute a disposal, as the slots remain 
within the airline.
However, in a statement on October 2, 2006, the then minister for transport, Martin Cullen, stated that ''four 
Heathrow slot pairs for services to and from Cork, and four (summer season) and three (winter season) for services 
to and from Shanno would each be critical to ensuring connectivity to these airports, because this is the minimum 
necessary to ensure a spread of flights throughout the day''.
The statement went on to say that the Minister for Finance, as a major shareholder, ''is unlikely to support a 
proposed disposal of any slot pair such that there would be less than the existing Heathrow slot pairs that relate to 
services between Heathrow and Cork or Shannon, and is likely to request the convening of an egm''.
This would not appear to obligate the government to request an egm, but it is clear that it has the discretion to 
protect the slots at Shannon. It is choosing not to exercise that discretion. In the light of the statement from Martin 
Cullen, this does seem to be a strange decision.
Investors, who studied the Articles of Association and IPO documentation, as they presumably did, should have 
been left in no doubt about what they were buying into. To suggest otherwise, as the Taoiseach did, does not stand 
up to any sensible scrutiny.
What makes the government's inaction even more difficult to understand is its stated objective in relation to regional 
economic development. The government launched The National Spatial Strategy 2002-2020 in 2002 with a clear 
aim of achieving more balanced regional economic development.
From a social and economic point of view, this is a very desirable objective. Having good air access is obviously 
crucial to this objective, as it enables key business people access the region easily and also facilitates tourism.
Interested parties in the mid-west are justifiably wondering how the government's acquiescence on the removal of 
the Shannon slots is consistent with its stated policy. In the past week, I spoke to one head of a foreign-owned 
company - with over 300 employees in the Shannon region - who stated categorically that he would now find it 
increasingly difficult to convince the foreign owners of the wisdom of maintaining a head office in a region that is 
being visibly downgraded. He is not unique in this view.
Government's baffling decision
Ireland as a location in which to do business is already under pressure due to a range of factors such as general 
costs, inadequate physical infrastructure, IT capability, and skilled labour availability.
Simultaneously, the forces of globalisation are making the environment much more competitive. Downgrading air 
access will only serve to accentuate these pressures. If the slots are removed from Shannon, connectivity will be 
further undermined and this will inevitably damage the economic potential of the region even further.
If the removal of the Heathrow route from Shannon goes ahead as appears likely, the obvious implication is that 
Cork could be next There is no doubt that the airline could decide at some stage that the removal of those slots 
would offer it greater commercial benefit.
Cork would then be left in the same position as Shannon now finds itself. A precedent is being set which could have 
disastrous consequences for these regions.
This places a serious question mark over the government's 25 per cent shareholding in the company. Presumably 
the government has not maintained the shareholding with a view to benefiting from capital growth or dividend 
payments, but rather to ensure that the vital interests of the economy are protected.
If the government is not going to protect the economic interests of the regions through its shareholding, then why 
bother having it in the first place?
The Shannon debacle appears to be a done deal, but Cork should now be on high alert. The government, through 
its inaction, is not protecting the economic interests of the mid-west region, and is failing to recognise the significant 
role that air access plays in regional economic development.
It is time the government acted; or else it should confine its spatial strategy objectives to the dustbin. The future of 
regional economic and social development is not promising, as the government appears to have lost sight of what is 
important. That is worrying.
Jim Power is chief economist with Friends First
Load-Date: September 2, 2007
End of Document
Legal News In Brief
Legal News In Brief 
AirFinance Journal
September 2007 
Copyright 2007 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LEGAL NEWS
Length: 536 words
Body
Â· Irish low-cost carrier Ryanair has filed a lawsuit against Italy's civil aviation authority, Ente Nazionale per 
l'Aviazione Civile (ENAC), for cutting traffic at Rome's Ciampino airport by 30%. Ryanair has alleged that ENAC's 
restrictions are unlawful and designed to protect Italian flag carrier Alitalia. 
Ryanair has applied to the regional administrative court in Lazio for an injunction against the restriction. The carrier 
is the largest operator by volume from Ciampino airport. 
Â· The US and the European Union have signed an agreement on the transfer of passenger name record (PNR) 
data to the US Department of Homeland Security from carriers operating transatlantic flights both to and from the 
US. 
The agreement provides the legal framework under which carriers can transfer PNR data to US authorities, and it 
grants permission to US authorities to access such data held on EU territory. 
It stipulates that PNR data will not be used or shared for purposes other than for which it is collected. The US and 
the EU have also agreed to revise the list of data that may be collected, while retaining the flexibility to ensure that 
sufficient data is collected to address current and future threats.  
The new agreement will be effective from January 1, 2008. 
Â· The US and Georgia have signed a full open-skies transport agreement that will permit domestic carriers of both 
nations to operate US-Georgia air services without restriction. 
The US has open-skies relationships with 89 aviation partners, including member states of the European Union. 
Â· Under the 1944 Chicago Convention, aircraft have the nationality of the state in which they are registered.â€‚All 
aircraft must have a nationality and cannot have a registration in more than one state. 
Also, because the state that issued its nationality mark to an aircraft has the duty of ensuring compliance with the 
rules of the air, the question of nationality is often of great importance. 
Â· The world's major civil aircraft producing countries - United States, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany and the 
United Kingdom - finalized a landmark aircraft sector understanding (ASU) governing the terms and conditions 
Legal News In Brief
under which official government financing for exports may be offered. Australia, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, 
Norway, Switzerland, and the European Community also signed this understanding.This understanding was 
reached after more than two years of negotiations in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
(OECD) and is a significant international economic policy achievement. Brazil, a non-OECD member, is joining an 
OECD-based export credit understanding for the first time. 
The understanding represents a major revision of the prior OECD aircraft understanding, which dates from the 
1980s. Major innovations in the way aircraft are financed since then have made the old understanding virtually 
obsolete. By requiring government financing to closely track the market, the understanding will allow civil aircraft 
sales campaigns to concentrate purchase decisions on price and quality, where US producers excel, rather than on 
the terms and conditions of official financial packages where subsidies can sway purchase decisionn 
Load-Date: October 3, 2007
End of Document
Deals News In Brief
Deals News In Brief 
AirFinance Journal
September 2007 
Copyright 2007 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: DEALS NEWS
Length: 955 words
Body
Â· BNP Paribas has closed the non-recourse financing of one 737-800 for SpiceJet, the Indian low-cost carrier. 
Â· Equity arranger DVB has closed a Japanese operating lease for six 737-800 aircraft for Ryanair. The bank 
financed four of these aircraft types for the airline last year. The six aircraft will be delivered at the end of 2007 and 
the beginning of 2008. 
Â·Focus Aviation has sold an MD-11 for Central Air Leasing. 
Â· BNP Paribas and Capstar Partners have completed the Japanese operating lease financing of two aircraft for 
CSA Czech Airlines. 
Â· Cebu Pacific, the low-cost carrier in the Philippines, has mandated BNP Paribas as sole underwriter and 
arranger of the financing of six ATR aircraft. The financing will be a combination of export credit and a commercial 
loan. This mandate follows one that was jointly awarded to the French bank and ING in 2005 for the financing of a 
large number of Airbus aircraft.    
Â· BNP Paribas has been mandated to the finance three Airbus aircraft for Turkish Airlines. The mandate comes 
after the implementation of optimized leases for two Airbus aircraft for the airline at the beginning of 2007. One 
aircraft has been financed using an optimized lease and the other two will be financed under a Japanese lease 
structure. This will be the first time that THY has tapped the Japanese market. 
Â· Skybus in the US has mandated Skyworks to arrange financing for 65 A319s. n 
Â· Korean Air has mandated five banks, including BNP Paribas as agent, to finance one 777-200ER aircraft. 
Â· Emirates has mandated BNP Paribas as sole underwriter and arranger to finance two 777-200ER aircraft. The 
financing includes Exim support. 
Â· Etihad has mandated BNP Paribas to finance one A340-600 aircraft. This is the first time that the French bank 
has been mandated by the Middle Eastern airline.   
Â· Republic Air in the US has mandated BNP Paribas to provide commercial financing for two ERJ 175 aircraft. 
Deals News In Brief
Â· Southwest has mandated BNP Paribas as liquidity provider for an EETC. 
Â· ING has signed a $590 million loan for Virgin Blue. 
Â· Virgin America has mandated Skyworks to arrange 12 sale/leasebacks and pre-delivery payment financing for 
A319s and A320s. 
Â· Copa Airlines has mandated BNP Paribas to provide Soar financing of six 737NG aircraft. 
Â· TAM has mandated BNP Paribas to provide long-term financing for one Airbus aircraft.  
Â· GOL has mandated BNP Paribas on the long-term financing of five 737NG aircraft. 
Â· Frontier has mandated Skyworks to finance its order of 10 Bombardier Q400s. 
Â· Atlas Air has mandated Skyworks to arrange financing for the delivery of a 747-8F aircraft. The deal includes a 
mixture of pre-delivery payment and long-term financing. n 
Â· Virgin Blue Airlines has mandated ING to arrange the financing for a number of aircraft, including four 737-800s, 
six E170LRs and 11 E190ARs. The deal is expected to close in September. The aircraft will be delivered over a 
one-year period, which started at the end of August. 
Â· State-run Pakistan International Airlines plans to raise PRs2 billion ($33 million) through a domestic Islamic bond 
to fund its loss-making operations. 
Â· BNP Paribas has refinanced four 737-800 aircraft for Continental Airlines. 
Â· UB Group has raised Rs550 crore  ($134 million) as debt financing from IDFC, HDFC and IL&FS for its share in 
Air Deccan. These institutions could pour in more debt as the group company, UB Holdings, is set to make an open 
offer for an additional 20% stake in Deccan Aviation, the parent of the low-cost airline, shortly. 
Â· Canadian airline Westjet has completed a $105.6 million US Ex-Im Bank-supported debt financing facility 
arranged by ING Capital. 
Â· Philippine Airlines has completed the financing of two A320 aircraft. Calyon and KfW-IPEX Bank jointly arranged 
the deal. The aircraft have been delivered. 
Â· BNP Paribas is sole debt underwriter of a Japanese operating lease financing for two 737-800 aircraft for SAS. 
Â· Lithuanian company FlyLAL Group, parent to FlyLAL-Lithuanian Airlines, has raised Lit9.5 million ($3.8 million) 
through a private placement of bonds. n 
Â· Fly Asian Express has mandated Malaysian banking group CIBM to arrange financing for an undisclosed number 
of A330-300s that will operate on long-haul service. 
Â· Copa Panama has obtained $416 million Ex-Im Bank financing for six of its 10 737NGs (eight -800 and two -
700s) on order. 
Â· Qantas has acquired 18% of Pacific Airlines in Vietnam, as part of a plan to acquire a 30% in the carrier, which 
has three 737-400 aircraft. 
Â· Private equity firm Oak Hill Capital Partners has executed a definitive agreement to acquire a majority interest in 
wet lessor Southern Air. 
Â· Delta Air Lines has begun distribution of about 21 million shares of Delta common stock to holders of allowed 
general unsecured claims against the company. 
Deals News In Brief
Â· S7 (Sibir Airlines) in Russia has entered into a lease financing with PK Airfinance and Calyon for nine A319 
aircraft. PK Airfinance is arranger, agent and security trustee. Calyon is debt co-arranger. 
Â· MALC Management Company - jointly owned by Novus Aviation Services and Alafco - has sold four A320-200's 
to GA Telesis. MALC owned the aircraft, which are on lease to British Airways. 
Â· A group of Italian investors are interested in acquiring the 49.9% of the shareholding owned Italian Government. 
The group is being advised by Antonio Baldassare, a former chairman of Italian TV. It is hoped that a meeting 
between the group and government can be arranged in the next few weeks.  n 
Moises Saba Masri, a Mexican businessman is hoping to bid for a controlling interest in AeroMexico. The Mexican 
government owns 62% of the carrier and has been trying to sell the shareholding. 
Load-Date: October 3, 2007
End of Document
UK AND IRELAND : Aer Lingus rejects Ryanair demand News Digest
UK AND IRELAND: Aer Lingus rejects Ryanair demand News Digest
Financial Times (London, England)
September 1, 2007 Saturday
London Edition 2
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES: UK AND IRELAND; Pg. 17
Length: 226 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE
Body
Aer Lingus last night officially rejected the call by Ryanair, its biggest shareholder, for an extraordinary shareholders 
meeting, further deepening the conflict between the two Irish airlines.
Aer Lingus, which last year defeated a hostile takeover bid by Ryanair, Europe's biggest low-cost carrier, said the 
resolutions proposed by Ryanair would result in a breach of European and Irish competition law.
Ryanair has built up a 29.4 per cent stake in Aer Lingus.
It recently stepped into the political controversy over its rival's decision to withdraw from the route between 
Shannon in the west of Ireland and London Heathrow and called for the extraordinary general meeting in an attempt 
to overturn the decision and to influence other route changes.
John Sharman, Aer Lingus chairman, said Ryanair's proposed resolutions were "clearly self-serving" and were 
"motivated by their own commercial interests".
Its bid to take over Aer Lingus had been prohibited by the European Commission on competition grounds, said Mr 
Sharman, and Ryanair was "now seeking to circumvent this decision by exerting influence on Aer Lingus through its 
minority shareholding".
He said the Aer Lingus board had received legal advice that it would be in breach of its fiduciary duties to call an 
EGM to consider the proposed resolutions.
Ryanair refused to comment last night.
Kevin Done
Load-Date: August 31, 2007
UK AND IRELAND : Aer Lingus rejects Ryanair demand News Digest
End of Document
Aer Lingus rejects demand by Ryanair , its No. 1 shareholder, for extraordinary general meeting
Aer Lingus rejects demand by Ryanair, its No. 1 shareholder, for 
extraordinary general meeting
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 31, 2007 Friday 4:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 529 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Aer Lingus Group PLC rejected a demand Friday by its top shareholder, rival airline Ryanair, to hold an 
extraordinary general meeting on the grounds that Ryanair was seeking to manipulate a competitor's business 
plans for its own benefit.
Aer Lingus managers had been under pressure to accede to Ryanair, which holds 29.4 percent of Aer Lingus stock.
But in a two-page letter, Aer Lingus told Ryanair its motives were selfish and its efforts to influence Aer Lingus 
policies would, if permitted, violate a June ruling by European Commission competition authorities barring Ryanair's 
attempt to take over its major Irish competitor.
"We have carefully considered your request, but ... we are not prepared to accede to it," the letter said.
"Ryanair is attempting to influence and coordinate the strategic conduct of Aer Lingus, its closest competitor, in 
circumvention of the (European) Commission's recent prohibition decision and in clear breach of Irish and 
European competition law," it said.
Aer Lingus chairman John Sharman accused Ryanair of "seeking to circumvent (the EU) decision by exerting 
influence on Aer Lingus through its minority shareholding."
Ryanair offered no immediate reaction.
Ryanair had demanded the meeting Aug. 13 in hopes that a majority of shareholders would vote to reverse Aer 
Lingus' surprise decision to withdraw key services from Shannon, the major airport in western Ireland, in favor of a 
new hub in the Northern Ireland capital, Belfast.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary said he wanted Aer Lingus to keep its current services linking Shannon 
with Heathrow, the major London airport, and to make its planned Belfast services link to London's No. 2 airport, 
Gatwick, instead.
Aer Lingus rejects demand by Ryanair , its No. 1 shareholder, for extraordinary general meeting
O'Leary suggested that Aer Lingus could do this by canceling a planned Dublin-Gatwick service the same route 
operated by Ryanair, which does not use Heathrow.
Aer Lingus accused Ryanair of seeking to minimize direct competition between Ryanair and Aer Lingus on routes to 
London.
Analysts agreed that the Ryanair move appeared designed to embarrass the government of Prime Minister Bertie 
Ahern, which retained a 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus after floating the previously state-owned airline on the Irish 
and British stock exchanges in September 2006.
The government has opposed Ryanair's hostile takeover bid, arguing that Europe's no-frills leader would be likely to 
cut Aer Lingus routes of economic importance and citing the Shannon-Heathrow link as a likely example.
But after Aer Lingus stunned the west of Ireland by announcing its plans to cut the service in favor of Belfast, the 
government has insisted its shareholding does not permit it to interfere in the airline's decision. This has raised 
widespread questions as to why the government has kept any holding at all.
Even had Ryanair succeeded in persuading Aer Lingus to call a shareholders' meeting, a majority vote demanding 
a reversal of the Shannon-Heathrow decision would not have been legally binding. But it would have required the 
government to take a side and exposed it to heavy criticism from business and tourism leaders in the west of 
Ireland if it did not vote against the Aer Lingus plans.
Load-Date: September 1, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus rejects demand by Ryanair , its No. 1 shareholder, for extraordinary general meeting
Aer Lingus rejects demand by Ryanair, its No. 1 shareholder, for 
extraordinary general meeting 
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 31, 2007 Friday 5:50 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 693 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Aer Lingus Group PLC rejected a demand Friday by its top shareholder, rival airline Ryanair, to hold an 
extraordinary general meeting on the grounds that Ryanair was seeking to manipulate a competitor's business 
plans for its own benefit.
Aer Lingus managers had been under pressure to accede to Ryanair, which holds 29.4 percent of Aer Lingus stock.
But in a two-page letter, Aer Lingus told Ryanair its motives were selfish and its efforts to influence Aer Lingus 
policies would, if permitted, violate a June ruling by European Commission competition authorities barring Ryanair's 
attempt to take over its major Irish competitor.
"We have carefully considered your request, but ... we are not prepared to accede to it," the letter said.
"Ryanair is attempting to influence and coordinate the strategic conduct of Aer Lingus, its closest competitor, in 
circumvention of the (European) Commission's recent prohibition decision and in clear breach of Irish and 
European competition law," it said.
Aer Lingus Chairman John Sharman accused Ryanair of "seeking to circumvent (the EU) decision by exerting 
influence on Aer Lingus through its minority shareholding."
Ryanair declined to respond. A spokeswoman, Pauline McAlester, said the airline had not yet received the rejection 
letter officially.
The Friday night announcement appeared timed to catch Ryanair off guard. On Thursday, Aer Lingus chief 
executive Dermot Mannion had specified in interviews that his company would not announce a verdict until 
Tuesday.
Irish airline analysts expect Ryanair to mount its own rebel EGM anyway, which is its right under Irish corporate law. 
Any shareholder with a minimum 10 percent stake can call such a gathering to see who else turns up. Ryanair's 
Aer Lingus rejects demand by Ryanair , its No. 1 shareholder, for extraordinary general meeting
hope would be to win backing from Aer Lingus employee-controlled trusts that represent about 22 percent of 
shares.
Ryanair had demanded the meeting Aug. 13 in hopes that a majority of shareholders would vote to reverse Aer 
Lingus' surprise decision to withdraw key services from Shannon, the major airport in western Ireland, in favor of a 
new hub in the Northern Ireland capital, Belfast.
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said he wanted Aer Lingus to keep its current services linking Shannon 
with Heathrow, the major London airport, and to make its planned Belfast services link to London's No. 2 airport, 
Gatwick, instead.
O'Leary suggested that Aer Lingus could do this by canceling a planned Dublin-Gatwick service the same route 
operated by Ryanair, which does not use Heathrow.
Aer Lingus accused Ryanair of seeking to minimize direct competition between Ryanair and Aer Lingus on routes to 
London.
Analysts agreed that the Ryanair move appeared designed to embarrass the government of Prime Minister Bertie 
Ahern, which retained a 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus after floating the previously state-owned airline on the Irish 
and British stock exchanges in September 2006.
The government has opposed Ryanair's hostile takeover bid, arguing that Europe's no-frills leader would be likely to 
cut Aer Lingus routes of economic importance and citing the Shannon-Heathrow link as a likely example.
But after Aer Lingus stunned the west of Ireland by announcing its plans to cut the service in favor of Belfast, the 
government has insisted its shareholding does not permit it to interfere in the airline's decision. This has raised 
widespread questions as to why the government has kept any holding at all.
Any majority vote at an EGM of Aer Lingus shareholders calling on the management to reverse its Shannon-
Heathrow decision would not be legally binding.
An Aer Lingus-sanctioned meeting, however, would have required the government to take a side and exposed it to 
heavy criticism from business and tourism leaders in the west of Ireland if it did not vote against the Aer Lingus 
plans.
The government would not be under as much political pressure to participate in a Ryanair-driven meeting. However, 
Ryanair could still benefit by building common cause with the employee shareholders, who are key targets in any 
renewed Ryanair takeover push. Labor unions at Aer Lingus oppose the airline's plan to switch services to Belfast.
Load-Date: September 1, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus rejects demand by Ryanair , its No. 1 shareholder, for extraordinary general meeting
Aer Lingus rejects demand by Ryanair, its No. 1 shareholder, for 
extraordinary general meeting
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 31, 2007 Friday 5:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 700 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Aer Lingus Group PLC rejected a demand Friday by its top shareholder, rival airline Ryanair, to hold an 
extraordinary general meeting on the grounds that Ryanair was seeking to manipulate a competitor's business 
plans for its own benefit.
Aer Lingus managers had been under pressure to accede to Ryanair, which holds 29.4 percent of Aer Lingus stock.
But in a two-page letter, Aer Lingus told Ryanair its motives were selfish and its efforts to influence Aer Lingus 
policies would, if permitted, violate a June ruling by European Commission competition authorities barring Ryanair's 
attempt to take over its major Irish competitor.
"We have carefully considered your request, but ... we are not prepared to accede to it," the letter said.
"Ryanair is attempting to influence and coordinate the strategic conduct of Aer Lingus, its closest competitor, in 
circumvention of the (European) Commission's recent prohibition decision and in clear breach of Irish and 
European competition law," it said.
Aer Lingus Chairman John Sharman accused Ryanair of "seeking to circumvent (the EU) decision by exerting 
influence on Aer Lingus through its minority shareholding."
Ryanair declined to respond. A spokeswoman, Pauline McAlester, said the airline had not yet received the rejection 
letter officially.
The Friday night announcement appeared timed to catch Ryanair off guard. On Thursday, Aer Lingus Chief 
Executive Dermot Mannion had specified in interviews that his company would not announce a verdict until 
Tuesday.
Irish airline analysts expect Ryanair to mount its own extraordinary meeting anyway, which is its right under Irish 
corporate law. Any shareholder with a minimum 10 percent stake can call such a gathering to see who else turns 
Aer Lingus rejects demand by Ryanair , its No. 1 shareholder, for extraordinary general meeting
up. Ryanair's hope would be to win backing from Aer Lingus employee-controlled trusts that represent about 22 
percent of shares.
Ryanair had demanded the meeting Aug. 13 in hopes that a majority of shareholders would vote to reverse Aer 
Lingus' surprise decision to withdraw key services from Shannon, the major airport in western Ireland, in favor of a 
new hub in the Northern Ireland capital, Belfast.
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said he wanted Aer Lingus to keep its current services linking Shannon 
with Heathrow, the major London airport, and to make its planned Belfast services link to London's No. 2 airport, 
Gatwick, instead.
O'Leary suggested that Aer Lingus could do this by canceling a planned Dublin-Gatwick service the same route 
operated by Ryanair, which does not use Heathrow.
Aer Lingus accused Ryanair of seeking to minimize direct competition between Ryanair and Aer Lingus on routes to 
London.
Analysts agreed that the Ryanair move appeared designed to embarrass the government of Prime Minister Bertie 
Ahern, which retained a 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus after floating the previously state-owned airline on the Irish 
and British stock exchanges in September 2006.
The government has opposed Ryanair's hostile takeover bid, arguing that Europe's no-frills leader would be likely to 
cut Aer Lingus routes of economic importance and citing the Shannon-Heathrow link as a likely example.
But after Aer Lingus stunned the west of Ireland by announcing its plans to cut the service in favor of Belfast, the 
government has insisted its shareholding does not permit it to interfere in the airline's decision. This has raised 
widespread questions as to why the government has kept any holding at all.
Any majority vote at an extraordinary general meeting of Aer Lingus shareholders calling on the management to 
reverse its Shannon-Heathrow decision would not be legally binding.
An Aer Lingus-sanctioned meeting, however, would have required the government to take a side and exposed it to 
heavy criticism from business and tourism leaders in the west of Ireland if it did not vote against the Aer Lingus 
plans.
The government would not be under as much political pressure to participate in a Ryanair-driven meeting. However, 
Ryanair could still benefit by building common cause with the employee shareholders, who are key targets in any 
renewed Ryanair takeover push. Labor unions at Aer Lingus oppose the airline's plan to switch services to Belfast.
Load-Date: September 1, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ jumps almost 1pc, builders buoyant
ISEQ jumps almost 1pc, builders buoyant
Business World (Digest) 
August 31, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 509 words
Highlight: Construction shares were the big winners today as the Dublin market ended the week in positive 
fashion.
Body
Construction shares were the big winners today as the Dublin market ended the week in positive fashion.
At the close, the ISEQ index was up by just under 1pc, or 82.60 points to 8,400.93, following a late rally.
The positive close in Dublin reflected a strong early showing on Wall Street after US Federal Reserve chairman Ben 
Bernanke said the Fed will act to limit 'adverse effects' on the economy.
 Shares in insulated panels manufacturer Kingspan led the way, soaring, more than 5pc, or 95c, to 19.00 as 
investors banked on a positive trading update from the company on Monday. The firm is expected to post a strong 
set of results for the first half of the year, driven by buoyant organic sales growth and from acquisitions. Goodbody 
Stockbrokers is forecasting earnings growth of 24pc to E109m and full year operating profit growth in the region of 
20pc. Acquisitions are expected to add around E100m to the company's coffers. Goodbody analyst Peter Gunn 
said all ears would be tuned in to what the company had to say about the outlook for the rest of the year. 
Kingspan's share price is down 10pc in the year to date, however, Mr Gunn believes that this underperformance is 
unwarranted. " Kingspan's share price. has underperformed its insulation peers. This is despite Kingspan's growth 
story remaining unchanged. We believe this weakness has been driven primarily by fears over the Irish housing 
sector. However, with Kingspan's small exposure to this market (around 8pc of sales) and continued strength 
evident across the rest of the group, we believe Kingspan's underperformance is unwarranted, and therefore its 
discount to the key insulation peers is unjustified." Elsewhere in the construction sector, McInerney edged up by 
more than 1pc, or 3c to 2.14, while Grafton tacked on 10c to 9.80 and CRH jumped 19c to 31.80. Financial shares 
also edged into the black, with AIB up 18c to 18.74, Bank of Ireland up 28c to 13.60 and Anglo Irish up 4c to 13.70. 
Irish Life and Permanent ended the session unchanged at 18.25. Other notable movers included drinks group 
CandC, up 5c to 5.39, after it issued its interim results for the first half of the year. Iona Technologies jumped 13c to 
2.60, while Ryanair added on 10c to 5.30. Elsewhere, bookmaker Paddy Power was down 11c to 22.15, banana 
ISEQ jumps almost 1pc, builders buoyant
distributor Fyffes was up 1c to 0.80, food group Kerry was up 7c to 17.85 and Total Produce was up 1c to 0.65. All 
four of those companies are due to release their interim results next week. Meanwhile, shares in AGI Therapeutics 
soared by more than 9pc, or 13c, to 1.53 after the pharmaceutical company this week announced that it has signed 
an exclusive option agreement to license some of the "intellectual property and know-how" to one of its drugs. The 
financial details of the option agreement are not disclosed, however certain pre-agreed in-licensing fees, milestone 
payments and cost sharing arrangements will be triggered if AGI exercises its option and enters into a licensing 
agreement with Williamsburg Holdings, a US private drug development company.
Load-Date: September 4, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus renews attack on Ryanair as profits fall
Aer Lingus renews attack on Ryanair as profits fall
Financial Times (London, England)
August 31, 2007 Friday
Asia Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 18
Length: 416 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Aer Lingus intensified its conflict with Ryanair, its leading shareholder, yesterday and said actions its rival was 
proposing to Aer Lingus shareholders were "anti-competitive" and would "destroy shareholder value".
Aer Lingus, which re-ported lower profits for the first half, fought off a take-over bid last year from Europe's leading 
low-cost airline, but this month Ryan-air increased its stake to 29.4 per cent, strengthening its recent call for an 
extraordinary meeting of Aer Lingus shareholders.
Ryanair is seeking to block Aer Lingus's proposed withdrawal of its service from Shannon to London Heathrow and 
the use of those Heathrow landing slots instead for a service from its new operating base at Belfast International 
airport.
Greg O'Sullivan, Aer Lingus chief financial officer, said yesterday that the airline was taking legal advice on 
Ryanair's EGM request, which raised "serious competition issues". Ryanair, its biggest competitor, was seeking to 
influence how it used its aircraft and its route network. He said it would respond to shareholders early next week.
The Aer Lingus move to abandon the Shannon/Heathrow route has provoked fierce opposition in the west of Ireland 
from business and trade union interests and become a political embarrassment for the Irish government, which is 
the second-largest shareholder with a stake of 25.4 per cent.
The Ryanair takeover bid was prohibited by the European competition authorities in June. Aer Lingus disclosed 
yesterday it had run up costs of Euros 7.8m (Dollars 10.65m) in the first half of the year fighting the bid, in addition 
to costs of Euros 16.2m incurred in the second half of 2006.
The threat of a two-day strike by its 480 pilots in protest at the pay and conditions being proposed for new pilots to 
be recruited at the Belfast base had cost Euros 3.5m this month. The strike was narrowly avoided. The two sides 
are due to hold more talks at the Labour Relations Commission today, but the airline warned that the outlook for 
industrial action was "not yet clear".
Aer Lingus renews attack on Ryanair as profits fall
Dermot Mannion, Aer Lingus chief executive, said the group was operating "in a highly competitive environment, 
where a continuing and unrelenting focus on cost-reduction, efficiency and change is necessary".
Operating profit, before employee profit share, fell in the first six months from Euros 10.6m to Euros 2.6m, in spite 
of a 12.9 per cent increase in revenues from Euros 508.3m to Euros 574.1m.
Underlying pre-tax profits fell from Euros 19.8m to Euros 11.5m.
Load-Date: August 30, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus rejects Ryanair 's request for an EGM
Aer Lingus rejects Ryanair's request for an EGM
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 31, 2007 Friday 5:13 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 186 words
Body
Irish airline Aer Lingus Group PLC today officially rejected a request by minority shareholder, Coinside, on behalf of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC, to convene an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of the company.
In the official letter rejecting the request, Aer Lingus said Ryanair's EGM proposal would breach competition law.
'It is clear that, in calling for an EGM to consider the two resolutions set out in your letter, coupled with the content 
of the statements made by Ryanair to the Stock Exchange, Ryanair is attempting to influence and co-ordinate the 
strategic conduct of Aer Lingus, its closest competitor, in circumvention of the Commission's recent prohibition 
decision and in clear breach of Irish and European competition law,' wrote Laurence Gourley, Aer Lingus' company 
secretary in a letter to Ryanair.
Ryanair launched a failed bid for Aer Lingus last October, shortly after the Irish flag carrier was floated in 
September, at 2.80 eur a share, valuing the group at 1.48 bln eur.
Earlier this month Ryanair acquired a further 4 pct stake in Aer Lingus, taking its holding in its Irish competitor to 
29.4 pct.
Load-Date: August 31, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus rejects Ryanair EGM request
Aer Lingus rejects Ryanair EGM request
Business World (Digest) 
August 31, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 136 words
Highlight: The board of Aer Lingus has rejected a request by Ryanair for an EGM.
Body
The board of Aer Lingus has rejected a request by minority shareholder, Coinside, on behalf of Ryanair, to convene 
an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of the Company to prevent it scrapping its Shannon to Heathrow service.
Earlier this month, Ryanair, which owns just over 29pc of Aer Lingus, wrote to the former state airline to request the 
holding of an EGM to propose that it reverses its decision to switch its Heathrow slots from Shannon to its new base 
in Belfast.
Ryanair also proposed that the airline transfer its landing and takeover slots at London's Gatwick Airport from 
Dublin to Belfast.
 Aer Lingus said in a letter to Ryanair today that, following extensive legal advice, it is understood that because 
Ryanair is a major competitor of Aer Lingus the company cannot be forced into holding the meeting.
Load-Date: September 4, 2007
End of Document
Lost hours in the Ryanair check-in queue
Lost hours in the Ryanair check-in queue
Financial Times (London, England)
August 31, 2007 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 10
Length: 53 words
Byline: By THOLSTRUP. JENS
Body
From Mr Jens Tholstrup.
Sir, Am I alone in enjoying the breathtaking irony of Michael O'Leary (Letters, August 29) haranguing BAA for "its 
contempt for customers"? On my one and only experience of flying with Ryanair, I spent far longer queuing for 
check-in than I spent in the security queue.
Jens Tholstrup,
Oxford OX2 6UW
Load-Date: August 30, 2007
End of Document
Ireland 's Aer Lingus says net profit up, accuses Ryanair of trying to wreck airline's value
Ireland's Aer Lingus says net profit up, accuses Ryanair of trying to wreck 
airline's value
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 30, 2007 Thursday 4:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 518 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Aer Lingus Group PLC reported a modest net profit Thursday and launched a withering attack on what it called 
attempts by its biggest shareholder, no-frills rival Ryanair, to sabotage the airline's growth.
In the six months ended June 30, Aer Lingus said it earned 6.8 million euros ($9.3 million), an increase of 89 
percent from 3.2 million euros in the year-earlier period, and its sales rose nearly 13 percent to 574.1 million euros 
($783.7 million).
But Aer Lingus said its profit was hurt by Ryanair's surprise attempt to take control of the company barely a week 
after the government floated the previously state-owned company on the Irish and British stock exchanges last 
year.
European Union regulators ultimately ruled Ryanair's proposed merger uncompetitive, but Ryanair has kept building 
its share to 29.4 percent today, bigger than the government's own retention of a 25 percent holding.
Aer Lingus said its campaign to deter other shareholders from accepting the Ryanair bid cost the company 7.8 
million euros ($10.7 million) in the first half of this year.
And it rounded on Ryanair's demand for an extraordinary general meeting to try to force Aer Lingus directors to 
reverse their most controversial decision in recent years to withdraw key services from Ireland's major western 
airport, Shannon, in favor of a new hub in Belfast, capital of the British territory of Northern Ireland.
The switch, planned for mid-January, has attracted widespread opposition in the Republic of Ireland. Politicians and 
business leaders say the planned cut of Shannon's links with Heathrow, Europe's busiest airport in London, will 
make it much harder to retain and attract foreign investment to western Irish cities.
Aer Lingus Chief Executive Dermot Mannion said he would formally respond to Ryanair's demand for an EGM on 
Tuesday.
Ireland 's Aer Lingus says net profit up, accuses Ryanair of trying to wreck airline's value
He said Ryanair's proposals to keep Aer Lingus services at Shannon intact were designed to prevent head-to-head 
competition. Ryanair does not use Heathrow but uses three other major airports serving London with inferior 
international links.
"The board firmly believes that the actions Ryanair are proposing are not in the best interests of all shareholders, 
are anti-competitive, and that the proposals will destroy shareholder value," Aer Lingus said in a statement.
Ryanair rejected the criticism and said it expected the EGM to proceed. A majority vote of shareholders would force 
Mannion to reverse his decision.
"I fail to see how it can be anticompetitive if we're seeking to maintain Aer Lingus services on Shannon-Heathrow 
when we have competing services," said Jim Callaghan, director of regulatory affairs at Ryanair.
"We're not stymieing our competitor," he added.
Mannion said Aer Lingus suffered an estimated 3.5 million euros ($4.8 million) loss this month when the airline's 
500 pilots threatened to strike over plans to hire pilots at the new Belfast base under different contracts. The pilots 
relented in favor of negotiations that are continuing.
The figure represents lost bookings, legal costs and charges for emergency bookings of charter aircraft, including 
from Ryanair.
Load-Date: August 31, 2007
End of Document
Earnings roundup: Zale swings to profit, Vuance loss widens
Earnings roundup: Zale swings to profit, Vuance loss widens
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 30, 2007 Thursday 6:47 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 228 words
Body
Among the earnings stories for Thursday, Aug. 30, from AP Financial News:
DALLAS (AP) Jewelry retailer Zale Corp. said Thursday that it swung to a profit in its fourth quarter after posting a 
loss a year ago, and the chief executive said the company might close more stores or even sell some of its chains.
NEW YORK (AP) Vuance Ltd., an Israeli company that provides access control and credentialing technology, said 
Thursday its second-quarter loss widened, hurt by an increase in sales and marketing and stock-based 
compensation expenses.
CHICAGO (AP) Sears Holdings Corp. said Thursday that its second-quarter profit tumbled 40 percent because of 
lower overall sales and weaker operating results from Kmart and its domestic Sears operations.
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) Dexia SA, Belgium's third-largest bank, reported a 35 percent increase in net profit 
Thursday, as the bank tried to soothe investors by claiming it would not incur losses if the U.S. housing market 
deteriorates.
DUBLIN, Ireland (AP) Aer Lingus Group PLC reported a modest net profit Thursday and launched a withering 
attack on what it called attempts by its biggest shareholder, no-frills rival Ryanair, to sabotage the airline's growth.
PARIS (AP) Channel tunnel operator Groupe Eurotunnel SA said Thursday its net loss for the first half of 2007 
narrowed versus a year ago, helped by lower financial charges.
Load-Date: August 31, 2007
End of Document
DAA gets all-clear for E800m Terminal 2
DAA gets all-clear for E800m Terminal 2
Business World (Digest) 
August 30, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 224 words
Highlight: The Dublin Airport Authority has received planning permission for its E800m second terminal and 
runway.
Body
The Dublin Airport Authority has received planning permission for its E800m second terminal and runway.
The permission was granted for the first phase of the project but is subject to some 30 conditions and permission 
for further expansion was denied.
This means the new terminal's floor space will be kept at 75,000 square metres, rather than 92,000, as had been 
proposed under a phase two development.
 On the runway, the Bord granted permission, subject to 31 conditions, and there-by opted not to accept its own 
inspector's recommendation for refusal. Condition 3 of the planning stipulates the new runway cannot be used for 
night-time flights between eleven at night and seven at the morning. Condition 5 stipulates that night-time flights 
from the airport cannot exceed on average 65 between the same hours. On the question of noise, the developers 
must also come to a voluntary arrangement with schools and houses in the vicinity to provide insulation free of 
charge. Both developments are dependent on metro north being provided. Ryanair confirmed that it will challenge 
An Bord Pleanala's decision. It claimed that the aviation regulator (CAR) has confirmed the DAA's plan for T2 is 
oversized, its costs are excessive (having increased fourfold - from E170m to over E800m) and will lead to a 
doubling of the already high passenger charges.
Load-Date: September 3, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair adds three routes to its winter schedule
Ryanair adds three routes to its winter schedule
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 30, 2007 Thursday 10:44 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 48 words
Body
Low-fares airline Ryanair Holdings PLC today said it had added three more routes to its winter schedule to cope 
with the expected extra demand during ski season.
Ryanair has added additional flights from Liverpool to Friedrichshafen, Stockholm to Grenoble and from 
Bournemouth to Milan Bergamo.
Load-Date: August 30, 2007
End of Document
Investors irked by Air Berlin
Investors irked by Air Berlin
Financial Times (London, England)
August 30, 2007 Thursday
Asia Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 16
Length: 340 words
Byline: By GERRIT WIESMANN
Dateline: FRANKFURT 
Body
Air Berlin, Europe's third-largest low-cost airline, yesterday irked investors by issuing a profit warning a week after it 
denied one was imminent, sending shares to a year-low.
The German carrier said a weather-induced slump in air travel in April, May and June had hit the airline's bottom 
line in the second quarter.
Earnings before interest and taxes fell 47.4 per cent to Euros 23.5m (Dollars 32.1m) in the period. Ticket sales grew 
4.8 per cent to Euros 510.5m but a rise in passengers numbers did not keep pace with the extra seats available.
As a result, Air Berlin revoked a pledge made in March to reach an operating margin of 6-7 per cent in 2007. It 
merely said operating profit should top the Euros 64m seen last year - then a 4.1 per cent margin.
Europe's low-cost carriers are expanding their networks and fleets in order to siphon more passengers from full-
service carriers, but are also trying to outdo no-frills rivals with lower fares.
Late last week Air Berlin denied market rumours it was preparing for a profit warning after larger rivals Ryanair and 
EasyJet reported flagging demand and falling ticket prices.
Air Berlin's shares yesterday fell 7 per cent to a 52-week low of Euros 10.81 at the start of trading. But they rallied 
to Euros 12 in late afternoon, 4 per cent higher than the day before.
As well as ordering jets to expand its fleet, Air Berlin has in the past year bought German rivals DBA and LTU, 
gaining slots at busy airports in Munich and Dusseldorf, and its first transatlantic routes.
But the company said the five months it took to get German antitrust approval for the LTU deal took Euros 30m off 
its bottom line, although the savings of Euros 70m-Euros 100m targeted for 2008 were still realistic.
Investors irked by Air Berlin
Joachim Hunold, Air Berlin co-owner and sole chief executive, said the disappointing second quarter still paved the 
way for further growth as capacity increases guaranteed vital landing rights.
EasyJet and Ryanair, which have grown organically rather than by acquisition, have in past weeks announced cost-
cuts.
Load-Date: August 29, 2007
End of Document
Aer Berlin to stop flights from Belfast
Aer Berlin to stop flights from Belfast
Business World (Digest) 
August 30, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 37 words
Highlight: Air Berlin said it is to stop its service from Belfast City Airport.
Body
Air Berlin said it is to stop its service between the George Best City Airport in Belfast and London Stansted from the 
end of October.
No-frills airline Ryanair recently announced three new routes from Belfast City Airport. 
Load-Date: September 3, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair adds 3 routes to its schedule
Ryanair adds 3 routes to its schedule
Business World (Digest) 
August 30, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 47 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said it had added three more routes to its winter schedule.
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair today said it had added three more routes to its winter schedule to cope with the expected 
extra demand during ski season
The carrier has added additional flights from Liverpool to Friedrichshafen, Stockholm to Grenoble and from 
Bournemouth to Milan Bergamo
Load-Date: September 3, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair challenge to Terminal 2 decision
Ryanair challenge to Terminal 2 decision
Business World (Digest) 
August 30, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 118 words
Highlight: Ryanair is to mount a legal challenge to Bord Pleanala's Terminal 2 decision.
Body
No-frills airline, Ryanair, is to mount a legal challenge to the decision by planning authorities to grant conditional 
approval to the DAA's plans for a second Dublin Airport Terminal.
Ryanair claims passengers will be forced to pay for the "excessive" cost of the new facility through increased 
charges and said a far cheaper and more efficient plan is available.
The permission was granted for the first phase of the project but is subject to some 30 conditions and permission 
for further expansion was denied.
 This means the new terminal's floor space will be kept at 75,000 square metres, rather than 92,000, as had been 
proposed under a phase two development. Ryanair says the build will cost at lease E800m.
Load-Date: September 3, 2007
End of Document
Splendid idea of Mr O'Leary's . . . or have I missed something?
Splendid idea of Mr O'Leary's . . . or have I missed something?
Financial Times (London, England)
August 30, 2007 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 10
Length: 167 words
Byline: By TONY BULEY
Body
From Dr Tony Buley.
Sir, I am an innocent in these matters but I felt quite excited by the prospect of improved air travel as described by 
Michael O'Leary of Ryanair (Letters, August 29) resulting from the competitive break-up of BAA.
Will this mean that, when I decide to use his excellent airline to take my family to Venice (Treviso), I will be able to 
choose which of the three newly independent London airports to fly from, based on the cleanliness of their 
lavatories and the shortness of their security queues? Splendid! I assume he will be significantly increasing the size 
of his fleet to maintain the regularity of his schedules from each one. I do like to be able to choose when I fly, give 
or take an hour.
Moreover, I have a Cambridge-domiciled Japanese friend who has to attend a monthly head office meeting in 
Osaka. I have no doubt the prospect of flying by JAL direct from Stansted rather than battling round the M25 will 
delight him. Or am I missing a point or two?
A.L. Buley,
Oxford OX2 6XP
Load-Date: August 29, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ slightly up as FBD , DCC suffer fall
ISEQ slightly up as FBD, DCC suffer fall
Business World (Digest) 
August 29, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 294 words
Highlight: The Dublin market was marginally up this morning lifted by financials.
Body
The Dublin market was marginally up this morning lifted by financials and the construction sector as FBD and DCC 
plummeted. 
At midday, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was up 37.07 at 8232.66
Shares in the financial sector were mixed as AIB fell 8c to 18.60 while Bank of Ireland rose 6c to 13.06. Anglo Irish 
Bank dropped 5c to 13.80 while Irish Life and Permanent jumped 27c to 18.15 after it said its operating pre-tax 
profits at Irish Life and Permanent surged by 33pc in the first half of the year to E321m.
 Construction shares put in a solid performance with the exception of McInerney, which fell 4c to 2.05. CRH rose 
21c to 31.05 and Grafton climbed 9c to 9.5. Kingspan increased 15c to 17.3. Shares in FBD Holdings dropped 85c 
to 26.9 after it reported today that pre-tax profits declined to E49.748m from E157.445m in the same period last 
year and profits on the operating level slumped to E65.11m from E75.72m previously as turnover nearly halved to 
E287.98m from E403.28m. Elsewhere, shares in no-frills airline Ryanair climbed 3c to 5.12 and shares Irish 
pharmaceutical company Elan dropped 36c to 13.54 after Elan's Tysabri partner, Biogen Idec, said yesterday that 
there have been no new reports of Tysabri patients developing PML (Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy) 
as of mid-July. The company says it has data showing no further cases, as was the case on May 23rd when it last 
confirmed no further instances of PML. The company said about 14,000 people worldwide were taking Tysabri as of 
mid-July. "The news is an incremental positive in terms of the safety profile of Tysabri," Mark Healy, analyst at Davy 
Stockbrokers said. Other notable movers include, DCC, down 88c to 18.85; Smurfit Kappa, down 13c to 15.87; 
Kerry Group, up 14c to 17.95. 
Load-Date: August 31, 2007
ISEQ slightly up as FBD , DCC suffer fall
End of Document
Brussels shares TFN at a glance outlook
Brussels shares TFN at a glance outlook
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 29, 2007 Wednesday 7:32 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 172 words
Body
Shares are expected to open lower following heavy overnight losses on Wall Street on mounting concerns about 
the US economy.
Last night, the Bel 20 closed down 47.71 points or 1.13 pct at 4,186.15.
TODAY
-Omega Pharma H1 results (5.45 pm)
-Belgian July PPI (midnight)
TOMORROW
-Belgian August CPI (10.00 am)
PRESS
-Fortis to provide details on capital increase by beginning of next week at the latest (De Tijd)
COMPANY NEWS
-Solvay, Gene Logic form jv to find alternative uses for discontinued drugs
-Euronav H1 net profit rises, but sales drop
-D'Ieteren continues to scan markets for Belron acquisition opportunities
-Ryanair resumes sales of Brussels Charleroi flights after agreement
-InBev declines comment on Budvar interest following Czech govt sale offer report
MARKET SENTIMENT
-D'Ieteren upped to 'buy' from 'accumulate' at KBC Securities, to 'accumulate' from 'hold' at Degroof
-OUTLOOK Dexia to post 'solid' Q2, launch share buy-back of up to 500 mln eur tomorrow
Brussels shares TFN at a glance outlook
-OUTLOOK Roularta to post higher H1 sales tomorrow driven by GEE consolidation
Load-Date: August 29, 2007
End of Document
BAA break-up can only improve these god-awful airports
BAA break-up can only improve these god-awful airports
Financial Times (London, England)
August 29, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 10
Length: 662 words
Byline: By MICHAEL O'LEARY
Body
From Mr Michael O'Leary.
Sir, Martin Wolf's claim (August 24) that the break up of the BAA monopoly is not the answer to the shambles at the 
London airports is simply wrong. The break-up of this overcharging, inefficient, "couldn't-care-less" monopoly will 
improve these airports and is one of the few things that most airlines now agree on.
While Mr Wolf is correct in calling the current baggage restrictions imposed by the Department for Transport 
irrational, he omits that these restrictions have been efficiently and effectively applied at many other UK airports 
without the long queues and frequent delays endured by passengers regularly at Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted. 
BAA has had more than 12 months to recruit additional security staff, yet still our passengers are repeatedly the 
victims of understaffing and closed security machines, particularly at peak periods. BAA, like most monopolies, talks 
a lot about customer service, but its actions demonstrate its contempt for customers.
It may not be BAA's fault that the UK planning process takes a long time. That being so, however, why aren't each 
of the BAA airports (Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted) pressing ahead for planning permission for additional 
facilities for 10 and 15 years hence? The reason is that, like most monopolies, BAA wishes to constrain capacity in 
order to maintain high prices. This has always been its policy. Even when planning new facilities, BAA knows that 
the Civil Aviation Authority's failed regulatory regime will reward it for every pound of overspend and inefficiency it 
can manage. Therefore, true to form, it wastes ridiculous sums of money building complex, inefficient facilities that 
don't work, and which its airlines and passengers don't want. Why, for example, would BAA spend less than 
Pounds 1bn building a second runway and terminal at Stansted, if it can waste Pounds 4bn doing it in the 
knowledge that the CAA will reward this higher spend with a future income stream that will be four times greater.
As one of BAA's largest customers, Ryanair is a staunch advocate of breaking up this high-cost, inefficient, under-
performing monopoly. At the very minimum, three competing London airports would each have an incentive to 
develop additional capacity, at lower costs, with the support of their airline customers. Competition between the 
three airports would see better service delivery, shorter queues and lower car parking charges. Airlines and 
passengers at competing airports would have more influence over the service standards and processing times than 
we do now - which is none. BAA Stansted doesn't care if you are stuck for one hour in a security queue; it is going 
BAA break-up can only improve these god-awful airports
to get paid for that passenger anyway. In fact, BAA benefits from these long queues, by encouraging passengers to 
check in earlier and thereby spend more time and money in its shops and restaurants. If it can save a few bob by 
under-recruiting and keeping these security machines closed, then, of course, that's an added benefit and so that's 
what it will do.
One only has to point Mr Wolf to the example of the airline industry in recent years to demonstrate the effectiveness 
of breaking up monopolies and allowing competition to improve services and reduce prices. Not everyone may like 
low-fares airlines, but at least everyone now has a choice. The advent of Ryanair has transformed short-haul air 
travel across Europe, with widely available air fares today that are less than one-tenth of the prices charged by 
British Airways and other high-fares airlines 20 years ago. Competition has transformed the airline industry, yet a 
regulated monopoly continues to deliver
abject facilities, long queues and passenger disservice at BAA's London airports.
Martin Wolf is wrong. Breaking up the BAA monopoly can only improve these god-awful airports - and let's face it, 
after 20 years of BAA's protected monopoly, could the London airports really be any worse?
Michael O'Leary,
Chief Executive,
Ryanair
Load-Date: August 28, 2007
End of Document
TDs picket cabinet talks on Aer Lingus
TDs picket cabinet talks on Aer Lingus
Business World (Digest) 
August 29, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 165 words
Highlight: TDs and councillors from the Shannon region protested outside the Dail.
Body
Around thirty TDs, councillors and business representatives from the Shannon region today protested outside Dail 
Eireann as the Cabinet met for the first time since the summer recess.
Minster of Defence, Willie O'Dea, who has already called for the decision by Aer Lingus to reverse it decision to 
move operations from Shannon to Belfast, is among those attending the protest 
The Government is expected to back Aer Lingus' controversial decision to cut its Shannon/Heathrow service, 
according to reports.
 The cabinet is now under pressure to use its 25pc stake in the airline to back calls for an extraordinary general 
meeting of shareholders. Ministers are due to hold their first formal discussions on the saga this week. Officials 
have said that nothing will be done to undermine the position of Chief Executive Dermot Mannion and the Chairman 
John Sharman at an EGM of the airline's shareholders in October. The meeting's been forced by Ryanair, which 
controls up to 30pc of the company 
Load-Date: August 31, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair resumes sales of Brussels Charleroi flights after agreement
Ryanair resumes sales of Brussels Charleroi flights after agreement
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 28, 2007 Tuesday 2:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 125 words
Body
Low-fares airline Ryanair Holdings PLC today said it had reached an agreement with Brussels South Charleroi 
Airport, which has allowed the airline to release all seats for sale from Nov 12 onwards after strikes at the airport in 
June.
The Irish airline said it welcomed the agreement, which was reached between the Ministry of Transport and the 
public service unions, which will guarantee that in future, any strikes will be accompanied by a minimum of 48 hours 
notice in order to allow passengers to make alternative arrangements.
As a result, Ryanair said it has resumed negotiations with Brussels South Charleroi Airport about further growth and 
new route development.
The June strikes left over 22,500 passengers stranded at Brussels Charleroi Airport.
Load-Date: August 28, 2007
End of Document
Nvidia , Joy Global and Maxim Integrated Products weigh down Nasdaq 100
Nvidia, Joy Global and Maxim Integrated Products weigh down Nasdaq 100
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 28, 2007 Tuesday 9:26 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 196 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Nasdaq 100 ended lower Tuesday, pressured by broader market weakness as well as a decline in shares of 
Nvidia Corp.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, 
declined 48.25 points, or 2.5 percent, to 1,899.24. The broader Nasdaq composite lost 60.61 points, or 2.4 percent, 
to 2,500.64.
Nvidia Corp. reversed a two-day winning streak and declined $3.01, or 6.1 percent, to $46.33.
Joy Global Inc., which reports fiscal third-quarter results on Wednesday, declined $2.91, or 6.1 percent, to $44.82.
An analyst downgrade pushed shares of Maxim Integrated Products Inc. down $1.73, or 5.6 percent, to $29.39.
On the rising side, Ryanair Holdings PLC rose 74 cents to $39.35.
XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. rose 11 cents to $11.60. Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. wants to buy XM Satellite, but 
regulators have scrutinized the deal on antitrust concerns. Meanwhile, some analysts have said recently that a 
cleared hurdle for Whole Foods Market Inc.'s $565 million purchase of rival Wild Oats Markets Inc. bodes well for a 
merger of the satellite radio operators.
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. gained 13 cents to $15.52.
Load-Date: August 29, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair in new 5-yr online reservations deal with Hostelworld
Ryanair in new 5-yr online reservations deal with Hostelworld
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 28, 2007 Tuesday 11:06 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 87 words
Body
Low-fares airline Ryanair Holdings PLC said it has entered into a new and exclusive 5-year agreement with 
Hostelworld.com to provide hostel, B&B (bed and breakfast) and guesthouse deals for Ryanair passengers.
Financial details were not disclosed.
Hostelworld.com chief executive Ray Nolan said: 'Our partnership with Ryanair has been a fantastic success. Since 
2003, we have booked accommodation worth more than 28 mln eur across Europe. We aim to grow this significant 
ancillary revenue for Ryanair over the next 5 years'.
Load-Date: August 28, 2007
End of Document
Nasdaq 100 Leaders & Laggards: NVDA
Nasdaq 100 Leaders & Laggards: NVDA
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 28, 2007 Tuesday 9:26 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 196 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Nasdaq 100 ended lower Tuesday, pressured by broader market weakness as well as a decline in shares of 
Nvidia Corp.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, 
declined 48.25 points, or 2.5 percent, to 1,899.24. The broader Nasdaq composite lost 60.61 points, or 2.4 percent, 
to 2,500.64.
Nvidia Corp. reversed a two-day winning streak and declined $3.01, or 6.1 percent, to $46.33.
Joy Global Inc., which reports fiscal third-quarter results on Wednesday, declined $2.91, or 6.1 percent, to $44.82.
An analyst downgrade pushed shares of Maxim Integrated Products Inc. down $1.73, or 5.6 percent, to $29.39.
On the rising side, Ryanair Holdings PLC rose 74 cents to $39.35.
XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. rose 11 cents to $11.60. Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. wants to buy XM Satellite, but 
regulators have scrutinized the deal on antitrust concerns. Meanwhile, some analysts have said recently that a 
cleared hurdle for Whole Foods Market Inc.'s $565 million purchase of rival Wild Oats Markets Inc. bodes well for a 
merger of the satellite radio operators.
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. gained 13 cents to $15.52.
Load-Date: August 29, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair resumes Charleroi flight sales
Ryanair resumes Charleroi flight sales
Business World (Digest) 
August 28, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 121 words
Highlight: Ryanair has reached an agreement with Brussels South Charleroi Airport.
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair said it had reached an agreement with Brussels South Charleroi Airport, which has allowed 
the airline to release all seats for sale from Nov 12 onwards after strikes at the airport in June.
The airline said it welcomed the agreement, which was reached between the Ministry of Transport and the public 
service unions, which will guarantee that in future, any strikes will be accompanied by a minimum of 48 hours notice 
in order to allow passengers to make alternative arrangements.
As a result, Ryanair said it has resumed negotiations with Brussels South Charleroi Airport about further growth and 
new route development.
 The June strikes left over 22,500 passengers stranded at Brussels Charleroi Airport. 
Load-Date: August 30, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus to discuss Shannon EGM
Aer Lingus to discuss Shannon EGM
Business World (Digest) 
August 28, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 102 words
Highlight: The board of Aer Lingus will meet this morning to discuss Ryanair's call for an EGM.
Body
The board of Aer Lingus will meet this morning to discuss Ryanair's call for an EGM on the controversial cuts in 
services from Shannon.
Reports this morning said the airline's directors would be given legal advice obtained on the implications of the 
resolutions put forward by Ryanair.
Ryanair proposed that the meeting should force Aer Lingus management to reverse its decision to end the 
Shannon-Heathrow service.
 It has also proposed that existing Aer Lingus services to London Gatwick could be scaled back to facilitate the 
establishment of new routes from Belfast as well as the retention of the Shannon operation.
Load-Date: August 29, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair signs deal with Hostelworld.com
Ryanair signs deal with Hostelworld.com
Business World (Digest) 
August 28, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 85 words
Highlight: airline Ryanair has signed a five-year deal with Hostelworld.com.
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair has signed a five-year deal with Hostelworld.com to provide hostel, B and B and guesthouse 
deals for its passengers through its website. 
Welcoming this new deal, Ryanair's Santina Doherty said, "it has never been cheaper or easier to discover Europe 
on a budget with Ryanair and Hostelworld.com. Over the period of this deal, Ryanair will double in size, enabling 
Hostelworld.com to increase its market share while providing even more value accommodation for our millions of 
passengers".
Load-Date: August 30, 2007
End of Document
Charleroi airport union signs minimum service agreement with govt - reports
Charleroi airport union signs minimum service agreement with govt - reports
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 27, 2007 Monday 7:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 141 words
Body
The airport security union representing workers at Brussels South Charleroi Airport signed an agreement with the 
Wallonian regional government which guarantees a minimum level of service in the event of future strikes, 
according to Belgian weekend press reports.
The agreement guarantees that, in the event of a grievance, all other avenues of dialogue will be exploited before a 
strike is called, according to Belgian financial daily L'Echo.
According to La Libre Belgique, the text states its aim as 'guaranteeing social harmony' at the airport.
The agreement comes following reports last week that Irish low-cost carrier Ryanair was to suspend flights from the 
airport from November following a series of 'wildcat' strikes.
The airline told La Libre Belgique that it was satisfied with the agreement and would resume the sale of flights from 
today.
Load-Date: August 27, 2007
End of Document
Brussels shares TFN at a glance outlook
Brussels shares TFN at a glance outlook
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 27, 2007 Monday 7:41 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 151 words
Body
Shares are expected to open higher extending Friday's gains after better-than-expected economic data in the US 
helped to buoy global markets.
On Friday, the Bel 20 closed up 40.84 points or 0.98 pct at 4,225.78.
TOMORROW
-Recticel H1 results (8.00 am)
-DIeteren H1 results (8.00 am)
-Euronav final Q2 results (5.45 pm)
COMPANY NEWS
-Thrombogenics posts rise in H1 sales, net loss
-Belgacom posts forecast-beating Q2; feels confident in convergence drive
MARKET SENTIMENT
-D'Ieteren target price cut to 278 eur vs 320 at ING ahead of H1 results; 'hold' rating maintained
WEEKEND PRESS
-Wallonian ministers and trade union leaders sign agreement guaranteeing minimum service levels at Brussels 
South Charleroi airport following Ryanair's threat to suspend flights from the airport (De Standaard, La Libre 
Belgique, L'Echo)
-Ford says will increase production at its Ghent plant to 1,230 cars per day from 1,200 (De Standaard)
Load-Date: August 27, 2007
Brussels shares TFN at a glance outlook
End of Document
Govt to back Aer Lingus over Shannon
Govt to back Aer Lingus over Shannon
Business World (Digest) 
August 27, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 85 words
Highlight: The Government will back Aer Lingus' controversial decision to cut its Shannon/Heathrow service.
Body
The Government will back Aer Lingus' controversial decision to cut its Shannon/Heathrow service, according to 
reports.
Officials have said that nothing will be done to undermine the position of Chief Executive Dermot Mannion and the 
Chairman John Sharman at an EGM of the airline's shareholders in October.
The meeting's been forced by Ryanair which controls up to 30pc of the company.
 Ministers are due to hold their first formal discussions on the saga when the Cabinet returns from its summer break 
this week.
Load-Date: August 29, 2007
End of Document
Money Talks: Know your rights when on flights
Money Talks: Know your rights when on flights
Sunday Business Post
August 26, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: THE MARKET
Length: 448 words
Body
Only in their wildest dreams would people have flown from Dublin to Britain for £1 in the early 1980s.
Today,you can pick up a Ryanair flight to Edinburgh in September for as little as 1c- you then have to pay airport 
taxes and charges, of course, while Aer Lingus will fly you to London for EUR 1.
Like most things in life, with air travel you expect to get what you pay for. With cut-price airfares like this, it's no 
surprise that the number of complaints about airlines have trebled in the last two years. Almost a quarter of all 
complaints received by the consumer watchdog, the European Consumer Centre, in 2006 arose from problems with 
airlines, compared to only 7 per cent in 2004.
As more people are flying today, this rise in complaints against airlines is not entirely unexpected. But this, along 
with the bargain airfares often available, does not excuse the behaviour of some airlines over the last year.
Many of today's consumers are aware of their air passenger rights, according to the ECC. However, this knowledge 
is not much use when airlines blatantly deny these rights. For example, under air passenger rights legislation, 
consumers are entitled to meals if they are delayed for more than two hours, depending on the length of their flight. 
If an airline cancels a flight at the last minute, passengers are entitled to either a refund or another flight home.
''The entitlements given in air passenger rights legislation, covering delayed and cancelled flights and denied 
boarding, are supposed to be offered to consumers who experience such problems," said the ECC's annual report, 
which will be published next week.
''This does not always happen, and so consumers have to apply to airlines afterwards to seek reimbursement or 
compensation and sometimes this is denied."
Most of the complaints about airlines over the last year arose from problems with delayed, damaged or lost 
luggage, according to the ECC's report.
Money Talks: Know your rights when on flights
This is ironic, given the hefty baggage fees recently introduced by Aer Lingus and Ryanair. It costs up to EUR 8 to 
check in your baggage for an Aer Lingus flight or up to EUR 12 with Ryanair.
If you're carrying sports equipment or a musical item, the baggage fee is much higher - with Ryanair, the charge is 
EUR 30 per flight. Furthermore, if you exceed your baggage allowance with Aer Lingus or Ryanair, you'll pay EUR 8 
per kilo per flight. This could cost you more than the flight itself. If you're checking in a 25kg bag for a Ryanair return 
flight from Dublin to Britain, you'll pay a EUR 160 charge for excess luggage.
And despite these charges, one in four airline complaints arise from problems with luggage.
Maybe you don't get what you pay for after all.
Load-Date: August 26, 2007
End of Document
Mannion seeks government support at egm
Mannion seeks government support at egm
Sunday Business Post
August 26, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 453 words
Body
Aer Lingus directors are to ask the government to vote in favour of ending the airline's Shannon-Heathrow route 
when shareholders meet to decide the issue in the coming weeks.
The board is about to engage in intensive behind the scenes lobbying to secure the support of the government, 
which holds 25 per cent of the airline, in an effort to ensure that Ryanair's motion to overrule management and save 
the route, which will be put to shareholders at an egm in early October, will fail.
Airline industry sources said Ryanair, which is Aer Lingus's biggest shareholder with a 29 per cent stake, had 
succeeded in putting the government in a difficult position by forcing a vote on Shannon.
Transport minister Noel Dempsey has expressed disappointment with the Aer Lingus decision, but has also 
signalled that the government is not prepared to interfere in the day-today running of the airline.
Despite high-profile opposition to the decision from some fellow Cabinet members, Dempsey is not expected to 
vote in favour of the Ryanair motion.
To do so, sources said, would undermine management and be likely to result in the resignation of board members 
including chief executive Dermot Mannion.
The government's remaining options are to abstain, which would mean the result would be determined by the votes 
of other shareholders, or to back the board by voting to scrap the route.
Abstaining would allow the government to defend its policy of non-intervention and would also defuse political 
pressure in the Shannon region, as it would be seen not to have supported the controversial decision.
But the Aer Lingus board will argue that a government decision to abstain would leave the door open for Ryanair's 
motion to succeed and that the government's support is critical to defeating it.
Mannion seeks government support at egm
Ryanair itself has said it is willing to abstain in the vote, pointing out that this would leave the way clear for the 
government and the Esot to vote together to save the Shannon routes.
The make-up of Aer Lingus's shareholder base means the board can only count on the support of around 25 per 
cent of shareholders, with most of this bloc made up of institutions that tend to follow the board's recommendations 
when voting on shareholder resolutions.
If the government were to abstain, it is unlikely that the board would be able to find support from other shareholder 
blocs, which include the Esot (which holds 12.6 per cent) and two investment groups set up by Aer Lingus pilots, to 
outvote Ryanair's 29 per cent.
Although Ryanair has signalled it was considering abstaining, the Aer Lingus board would still need the 
government's support to ensure that it went into the egm with enough votes to win, irrespective of Ryanair's final 
decision.
Load-Date: August 26, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus and Shannon
Aer Lingus and Shannon
Sunday Business Post
August 26, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: LETTERS
Length: 325 words
Body
Nostalgia for our past is certainly understandable (Tom McGurk, SBP, 5/8/07).
However, the majority of folk in any democracy are working class.
As I can recall, when I was a child, our parents occasionally budgeted the price of the bus fare to Collinstown to 
watch the planes come and go and to eat our packed picnic on the roof of the airport.
That was the closest that working class people got to air travel. So the answer is yes, Tom, what Michael O'Leary 
and Ryanair have done for millions of ordinary people is most certainly good enough for me.
John Lundberg
By e-mail
* It is disappointing that so few of the discussions on the Shannon controversy have been informed by facts. For 
colleagues elsewhere in Ireland who may be wondering what all the fuss is about, I'd like to present the results of a 
small experiment.
Using a popular travel planning website, I sought to book the following fairly typical journeys, first for September 
2007 and then, with the revised schedules, for March 2008.
1.A two-day trip to Brussels in September had 70 options starting from &euro;332.
Same trip in March: ''We have nothing that matches your search'' 2.A two-day trip to Berlin in September had 26 
options starting at &euro;346.
Same trip in March: ''We have nothing that matches your search'' 3.A two-day trip to Amsterdam in September had 
64 options starting at &euro;336.
Aer Lingus and Shannon
Same trip in March: 8 options starting at &euro;1,217 4.A one week trip to Tokyo in September had 14 options 
starting at &euro;802.
Same trip in March: 3 options starting at &euro;4,352 ('economy' class).
Anyone who has business links in Europe or the Far East should appreciate our concern at losing affordable 
connectivity to the markets we wish to serve.
Professor Kevin Ryan
Castletroy Heights, Limerick
* Why should Aer Lingus be expected to adhere to the government's National Spatial Policy when the government's 
own decentralisation plans have ignored it?
Brian Flanagan
Blackrock, Co Dublin
Load-Date: August 26, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to introduce check-in charge that hits people with luggage, non-EU passports
Ryanair to introduce check-in charge that hits people with luggage, non-EU 
passports
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 24, 2007 Friday 5:51 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: INTERNATIONAL NEWS
Length: 341 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Ryanair, the no-frills airline infamous for adding myriad charges for "free" flights, unveiled a new front Friday in its 
war on luggage a check-in charge.
The €3 (US$4) charge each way will be added to the cost of a one-way ticket for anybody using a check-in desk. 
This means anybody who has to check in luggage or, indeed, any passenger who holds a passport from outside the 
European Economic Area: the 27 nations of the European Union plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.
Ryanair said it was simultaneously dropping a €3 charge for people who had no check-in luggage and wanted first-
priority boarding. It billed the change as designed to encourage people to check in via the airline's Web site and 
avoid the check-in line at the airport.
Ryanair said the changes would come into effect on all bookings made from Sept. 24 onward.
"Passengers who wish to travel with checked baggage will be subject to a small fee to reflect the cost of airport 
check-in desk facilities," Ryanair spokesman Peter Sherrard said.
The Ryanair statement twice claimed that the free option would be available to all passengers who do not have 
check-in luggage, but in a footnote referred readers to its Web site for a list of restrictions.
The Web site's list of people obliged to use check-in desks includes people with infants or baby buggies, teenagers 
traveling without adults, and passengers traveling from Italy to Britain.
The airline also later confirmed to The Associated Press that holders of passports from non-EEA nations would 
suffer the new €3 charge even if they have no luggage to check, because they also are barred from checking in on 
the Web.
Ryanair to introduce check-in charge that hits people with luggage, non-EU passports
The new charges regime means that, for a typical passenger checking a single piece of luggage, the round-trip cost 
will be €18 (US$24.60) for the just the bag. Ryanair's weight limit on the bag is 15 kilograms (33 pounds), above 
which passengers are charged an extra €8 (US$11) per kilogram.
On the Net:
Ryanair's list of restrictions for Web check-in:
http://www.ryanair.com/site/EN/faqs.php?sectweb&questchildren
Load-Date: August 25, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ ends week with a whimper, down 24
ISEQ ends week with a whimper, down 24
Business World (Digest) 
August 24, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 470 words
Highlight: Shares in CRH slumped by more than 2pc on a quiet day of trading.
Body
Shares in CRH slumped by more than 2pc on a quiet day of trading today as the Dublin market ended the week 
with a whimper.
The market spent virtually all of the session in the red, however, better than-expected economic data in the US led 
to a rally late on.
At the close today, the ISEQ index was down 24.32 points at 8,327.39.
 Building materials giant CRH led was the most notable faller, down 64c to 30.32. Elsehwere in the construction 
sector, Kingspan was up 27c to 17.25, Grafton was down 10c at 9.55, while McInerney ended the session 
unchanged at 2.14 after it was confirmed that Quinn Direct has bought a 5pc stake in the housebuilder. A notice to 
the stock exchange today revealed that the insurer bought just under eight million shares in McInerney on Tuesday 
for an undisclosed amount. Meanwhile, a separate note to the exchange showed that investment firm Dresdner 
Kleinwort Group Limited has bought a 12.13pc stake in the company. Financial shares closed largely unchanged as 
investors backed away ahead of the weekend. AIB nudged up 5c to 19.48, while Anglo Irish slipped 1c to 13.95 and 
Bank of Ireland fell 6c to 13.49. Irish Life and Permanent was the biggest faller in the sector, slipping 24c to 18.05. 
Elsewhere, shares in Ryanair dropped by almost 2pc, or 9c, on the news that the carrier is to start charging 
passengers for checking in at the airport. Rival airline Aer Lingus edged into positive territory, closing 2c higher at 
2.42. Shares in CandC closed 1c lower at 5.47, having been down by more than 5pc earlier in the session on news 
of increased competition in the UK cider market. Goodbody analyst Liam Igoe said the fall in share price at the cider 
manufacturer coincided with new data in the UK showing that rival brewer Scottish and Newcastle may be winning 
the cider battle in Britain. The latest off-trade figures from Neilsen revealed that sales of SandN's Bulmers cider 
rose by more than 70pc in the four weeks to August 11, compared to growth of just 20pc in CandC's Bulmers. Mr 
Igoe added that CandC's share price is likely to remain volatile over the coming weeks. Shares in Irish Continental 
Group ended the session 2c higher at 24.52 after it was confirmed that property developer Liam Carroll is still 
ISEQ ends week with a whimper, down 24
buying up shares in the company. A statement to the stock exchange today revealed that Mr Carroll had bought just 
over 6,000 shares in the ferry operator at a price of E24.50, upping his stake to 19.4pc. Elsewhere, DCC was 9c to 
the good at 20.50 after it received clearance form the UK Office of Fair Trading for the acquisition of British oil 
distributor CPL Petroleum Limited. Meanwhile, fruit distributor Fyffes was unchanged at 0.83 after it confirmed to 
the market that it will announce its interim results for the six months ended 30 June 2007 on Monday 3 September 
2007. 
Load-Date: August 28, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to charge 2 stg/3 eur for passengers to check-in at the airport
Ryanair to charge 2 stg/3 eur for passengers to check-in at the airport
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 24, 2007 Friday 12:27 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 144 words
Body
Low-cost airline Ryanair is to start charging 2 stg or 3 eur to check in at the airport from September 20 to encourage 
passengers to check in online, it announced in a statement.
Web check-in will be free for passengers travelling with hand luggage only and will include priority boarding at the 
departure gate, the airline said, but passengers who want to use airport check-in facilities will pay the charges.
Ryanair said the move would discourage passengers from checking in bags or using airport check-in queues.
'These new measures will, we believe, encourage more and more passengers to travel without checked-in baggage 
and use Ryanair's free web check-in and priority boarding service,' a company spokesman said.
'These passengers will do so entirely free of charge, whilst avoiding the check in queues and being among the first 
to choose their seats onboard.'
Load-Date: August 24, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to charge E3 for check-in
Ryanair to charge E3 for check-in
Business World (Digest) 
August 24, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 142 words
Highlight: Ryanair is to make web check-in free to reduce airport queues.
Body
No-frills Ryanair is to start charging 2 stg or E3 to check in at the airport from September 20 to encourage 
passengers to check in online, it announced in a statement.
Web check-in will be free for passengers travelling with hand luggage only and will include priority boarding at the 
departure gate, the airline said, but passengers who want to use airport check-in facilities will pay the charges.
Ryanair said the move would discourage passengers from checking in bags or using airport check-in queues.
 'These new measures will, we believe, encourage more and more passengers to travel without checked-in 
baggage and use Ryanair's free web check-in and priority boarding service,' a company spokesman said. 'These 
passengers will do so entirely free of charge, whilst avoiding the check in queues and being among the first to 
choose their seats onboard.' 
Load-Date: August 28, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down amid fears of US recession
ISEQ down amid fears of US recession
Business World (Digest) 
August 24, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 166 words
Highlight: The Dublin market slumped by almost 1pc in the opening hours this morning.
Body
The Dublin market slumped by almost 1pc in the opening hours this morning amid fears that the current housing 
and credit crisis in the US could lead to a full-scale recession.
Just before 1100, the ISEQ index was down 70.76 points to 8,280.950.
Fresh worries about the impact of a recession in the US were the main catalyst for the falls this morning.
 The chief executive of the biggest US mortgage lender Countrywide warned yesterday that the US housing 
downturn is likely to lead the country into recession. CRH was the big faller in Dublin, down 3pc, or 80c, to 30.09. 
Elsewhere in the construction sector Grafton was 10c lower at 9.55, Kingspan was up 4c to 17.00 and McInerney 
was up 1c to 2.14. Financial shares made a sluggish start, with Irish Life and Permanent down 23c to 18.07, AIB 
down 7c to 19.36 and Anglo Irish Bank down 6c to 13.90. Bank of Ireland was off 10c at 13.45. Other notable 
movers included C and C, down 11c to 5.37, Elan, down 27c to 13.47, and Ryanair, down 7c to 5.10.
Load-Date: August 28, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ soars by almost 2pc in early stages
ISEQ soars by almost 2pc in early stages
Business World (Digest) 
August 23, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 204 words
Highlight: The recent turnaround in the Dublin market continued this morning.
Body
The recent turnaround in the Dublin market continued this morning as Irish shares leapt into positive territory for the 
fourth consecutive session.
Just after 1100, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was up 143.50 points to 8,454.03.
The strong start came on the back of sharp gains on Wall Street overnight and was in-line Europe's leading 
exchanges.
 Indices around Europe were higher in morning deals after the Bank of America made a USD2bn investment in 
America's largest mortgage lender Countrywide Financial, which traders and analysts deemed to be a huge sign of 
confidence. Investors are also heartened that M and A is continuing in the US despite credit jitters. In Dublin this 
morning, financial and construction shares led the way. AIB and Bank of Ireland both led the way among the banks, 
tacking on 31c to 19.66 and 13.72 respectively. Anglo Irish was 18c higher at 14.19, while Irish Life and Permanent 
was up 16c at 18.26. The builders were led by CRH, with shares in the building materials giant jumping 65c to 
31.57. Meanwhile, added on 7c to 9.85, while Kingspan edged up 35c to 17.07. Other notable movers in the 
opening hours included Elan, up 59c to 13.67, Paddy Power, up 40c to 22.70, and Ryanair, up 10c to 5.22.
Load-Date: August 27, 2007
End of Document
Turbulence Observer
Turbulence Observer
Financial Times (London, England)
August 23, 2007 Thursday
Asia Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: OBSERVER; Pg. 8
Length: 235 words
Body
It was a bad day yesterday for Ryanair, the Irish low-cost airline
UK advertising regulators banned advertisements that claimed its flights from London to Brussels were faster and 
cheaper than trains run by Eurostar.
While Ryanair has since scrapped its London flights in yet another conflict with European Union authorities, the 
Advertising Standards Authority ruling could have consequences. It said the adverts were misleading because they 
ignored the time taken to travel from the city centres to the airports, and the cost of transport to get to them.
Ryanair retorted by saying: "Only in the parallel universe of the ASA quango can a 1 hour 10 minute flight be 
declared to be longer than a 2 hour 11 minute train journey. Even a four-year-old with basic maths could tell you the 
flight is shorter."
More damaging could be the fallout from its latest union-bashing activity. News broke yesterday that Ryanair was 
refusing to fly from its Belgian base, south of Brussels at Charleroi, after November 12 unless the authorities 
guaranteed there would be no more strikes after a June stoppage disrupted services.
By the afternoon, rival carrier Brussels Airlines had announced it would make 150,000 cheap seats available from 
that day. It threw in that the flights would be to airports close to big cities, passengers could take plenty of baggage, 
and "unlike some airlines" you could even choose your seat in advance.
Load-Date: August 22, 2007
End of Document
EU declines to comment on whether Ryanair must pay back Wallonian state aid
EU declines to comment on whether Ryanair must pay back Wallonian state 
aid
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 23, 2007 Thursday 12:15 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 199 words
Body
The European Commission declined to comment today on whether Ryanair Holdings will have to pay back state aid 
it received from the Wallonian government in Belgium for flights it will now not run from its hub at Charleroi near 
Brussels.
The Irish low-cost airline signed a ten-year deal in 2005 committing itself to investment in the airport and currently 
receives tax exemptions and landing fee aid from the region.
Yesterday, the carrier said it is suspending flights from the airport from November 12 because of the risk of wildcat 
strikes, and asked the Wallonian government to resolve the situation with its workers.
A commission spokesman added that he did not consider Ryanair's actions to be blackmail aimed at undermining 
airport workers' right to strike.
The spokesman said the dispute is an issue between a private company and the government of Wallonia and is not 
related to EU legislation on the right to strike.
Separately, the commission said that a 2003 decision on state aid previously given to Ryanair, which required the 
airline to repay funds, is currently being appealed at the European Court of Justice.
The funds are currently frozen in a bank account pending the court's decision.
Load-Date: August 23, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 22, 2007 Wednesday 11:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 458 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
BHP Billiton FY attributable profit rises 35 pct to record 13.7 bln usd
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - BHP Billiton, the world's largest mining company, posted a 35 pct increase in full-
year attributable profit.
Attributable profit rose to a record 13.7 bln usd, from 10.5 bln usd the year earlier, while underlying earnings before 
interest and taxation grew to 20.1 bln usd from 15.3 bln usd.
Ryanair to suspend Belgian flights because of risk of wildcat strikes
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings is suspending flights from its hub at Charleroi 
near Brussels from November 12 because of the risk of wildcat strikes at the airport, it said in a statement.
Security staff at Charleroi staged a wildcat strike over the weekend of June 15-17 causing the cancellation of 
thousands of Ryanair flights, and the airline said it was stopping all bookings until the issue was resolved.
Barclays named as mystery BOE borrower - report
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Barclays has emerged as the unnamed bank that borrowed some 314 mln stg 
from the Bank of England's emergency lending facility, according to a report in the Daily Mail.
Barclays is thought to have borrowed the money to square up its accounts at the end of the day, added the paper.
HBOS may need to raise 19 bln stg in Grampian fund bailout - report
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - HBOS may have to raise 19 bln stg within six months to fund the bailout of its 
Grampian credit arbitrage fund, the Times reported.
Most of that sum will have to be found within weeks unless credit conditions improve, as the average maturity of 
Grampian commercial paper is just 55 days, the newspaper added.
BSkyB claims 85.9 pct of Amstrad, offer extended to Sept 4
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - British Sky Broadcasting Group said its wholly owned Sky Digital Supplies unit, 
which has made a recommended cash offer for the consumer electronics group Amstrad, has received valid 
acceptances for about 71.57 mln shares, about 85.9 pct, of Amstrad.
The pay-TV giant said the offer has been extended and will remain open until Sept 4.
Stagecoach says financial performance to-date ahead of expectations
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Rail and bus operator Stagecoach Group said its financial performance since the 
end of April has been ahead of expectations because of stronger than anticipated revenue growth.
The company's UK bus operations recorded like-for-like revenue growth of 7.6 pct in the 12 weeks to July 21, while 
rail recorded growth of 15.0 pct, it said. Revenues in North America were 4.3 pct ahead for the three months to end-
July, and growth at its joint venture Virgin Rail Group were up 13.4 pct in the 12 weeks to July 21.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: August 22, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 22, 2007 Wednesday 4:20 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 585 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
BHP Billiton FY attributable profit rises 35 pct to record 13.7 bln usd
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - BHP Billiton, the world's largest mining company, posted a 35 pct increase in full-
year attributable profit.
Attributable profit rose to a record 13.7 bln usd, from 10.5 bln usd the year earlier, while underlying earnings before 
interest and taxation grew to 20.1 bln usd from 15.3 bln usd.
Ryanair to suspend Belgian flights because of risk of wildcat strikes
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings is suspending flights from its hub at Charleroi 
near Brussels from November 12 because of the risk of wildcat strikes at the airport, it said in a statement.
Security staff at Charleroi staged a wildcat strike over the weekend of June 15-17 causing the cancellation of 
thousands of Ryanair flights, and the airline said it was stopping all bookings until the issue was resolved.
PriceWaterhouseCoopers appointed administrators to ChoicesUK
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - PriceWaterhouseCoopers has been appointed administrators to ChoicesUK PLC, 
according to a spokesman for the AIM-listed DVD, video and computer games retailer.
The key PWC partners who will decide ChoicesUK's fate are Colin Haig and Nick Cropper. PWC is expected to 
publish a statement shortly.
Barclays named as mystery BOE borrower - report
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Barclays has emerged as the unnamed bank that borrowed some 314 mln stg 
from the Bank of England's emergency lending facility, according to a report in the Daily Mail.
Barclays is thought to have borrowed the money to square up its accounts at the end of the day, added the paper.
HBOS may need to raise 19 bln stg in Grampian fund bailout - report
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - HBOS may have to raise 19 bln stg within six months to fund the bailout of its 
Grampian credit arbitrage fund, the Times reported.
Most of that sum will have to be found within weeks unless credit conditions improve, as the average maturity of 
Grampian commercial paper is just 55 days, the newspaper added.
Tullow Oil Ghana well finds 'significant' light oil
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Tullow Oil PLC said the Hyedua-1 well drilled on the Deepwater Tano licence 
offshore the Republic of Ghana has discovered a 'significant' light oil accumulation.
Initial data from the well indicates that the Hyedua-1 and Mahogany-1 wells are likely to represent a single 
continuous trap, the company said.
BSkyB claims 85.9 pct of Amstrad, offer extended to Sept 4
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - British Sky Broadcasting Group said its wholly owned Sky Digital Supplies unit, 
which has made a recommended cash offer for the consumer electronics group Amstrad, has received valid 
acceptances for about 71.57 mln shares, about 85.9 pct, of Amstrad.
The pay-TV giant said the offer has been extended and will remain open until Sept 4.
Stagecoach says financial performance to-date ahead of expectations
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Rail and bus operator Stagecoach Group said its financial performance since the 
end of April has been ahead of expectations because of stronger than anticipated revenue growth.
The company's UK bus operations recorded like-for-like revenue growth of 7.6 pct in the 12 weeks to July 21, while 
rail recorded growth of 15.0 pct, it said. Revenues in North America were 4.3 pct ahead for the three months to end-
July, and growth at its joint venture Virgin Rail Group were up 13.4 pct in the 12 weeks to July 21.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: August 22, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair suspends bookings for Brussels flights from Nov. 12 due to labor dispute
Ryanair suspends bookings for Brussels flights from Nov. 12 due to labor 
dispute
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 22, 2007 Wednesday 9:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 147 words
Dateline: BRUSSELS Belgium
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair said Wednesday it was suspending bookings for flights scheduled to depart from the 
Charleroi airport after Nov. 12, responding to a labor strike that left thousands of passengers stranded in June.
In a statement, Ryanair said it would only guarantee flights from its base south of Brussels after that date if it 
receives assurances from the airport that any future strikes will not affect the company's operations. It said an 
emergency plan must be put in place for such cases.
An airport workers' strike June 15-17 left 22,500 Ryanair customers stranded, the airline said on its Web site.
The Charleroi airport, Ryanair's main hub in the region, said it was working with the Irish company to resolve the 
issue.
Unions called the June strike to protest plans to switch security personnel to the private sector, fearing it would 
raise costs and lead to job cuts.
Load-Date: August 23, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair Brussels ads banned over claims of being faster, cheaper than Eurostar
Ryanair Brussels ads banned over claims of being faster, cheaper than 
Eurostar
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 22, 2007 Wednesday 7:32 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 154 words
Body
UK advertising regulators have banned advertisements by Ryanair Holdings which claimed that its flights from 
London to Brussels are faster and cheaper than trains run by high speed international rail operator Eurostar, 
according to a report.
The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) said the adverts were misleading because they ignored the time taken 
travelling from city centres to airports, the BBC reported.
The ASA also said that Ryanair had failed to take into account the extra costs of getting to and from the airports.
Ryanair's advert compared its 70-minute flight between Stansted and Charleroi airports to a 131-minute train 
journey between Waterloo in central London and Brussels Midi in the centre of the Belgian capital, the BBC said.
Ryanair defended itself, telling the BBC that the time and costs involved in getting to an airport or railway station 
were 'irrelevant' as they applied to both modes of transport.
Load-Date: August 22, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to suspend Belgian flights because of risk of wildcat strikes
Ryanair to suspend Belgian flights because of risk of wildcat strikes
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 22, 2007 Wednesday 8:54 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 152 words
Body
Low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings is suspending flights from its hub at Charleroi near Brussels from November 12 
because of the risk of wildcat strikes at the airport, it said in a statement.
Security staff at Charleroi staged a wildcat strike over the weekend of June 15-17 causing the cancellation of 
thousands of Ryanair flights, and the airline said it was stopping all bookings until the issue was resolved.
Ryanair said Charleroi Airport had assured it that it was tackling the staff grievances.
'However, Ryanair is determined to ensure that its flights and passengers at Charleroi will not be cancelled again 
and so there must be an effective contingency plan in place to keep this international airport open and operational 
even if some staff wish to engage in wildcat strikes in the future,' it said.
Flights to and from the airport in August, September and October are unaffected by the suspensions, it said.
Load-Date: August 22, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair advert claim is "misleading"
Ryanair advert claim is "misleading"
Business World (Digest) 
August 22, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 104 words
Highlight: Ryanair's ad claiming a faster and cheaper service to Brussels from London has been ruled misleading.
Body
A Ryanair ad claiming a faster and cheaper service to Brussels from London than Eurostar's Channel Tunnel route 
has been ruled misleading.
The claim was misleading because it ignored time taken travelling from city centres to airports, the British 
Advertising Standards Authority said.
Ryanair's advert compared its 70-minute flight to a 131-minute train journey. 
 But travelling from the heart of London and Brussels would add one hour and 45 minutes to the journey, the ASA 
said. And costs for those journeys to and from airports at both ends of the journey meant that claims Ryanair's 
service was cheaper were also misleading.
Load-Date: August 24, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair calls on ASA to reverse finding
Ryanair calls on ASA to reverse finding
Business World (Digest) 
August 22, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 134 words
Highlight: Ryanair today called on ASA to its reverse finding on an advert.
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair today called on the British Advertising Standards Authority to reverse its "factually false" 
finding of yesterday that the Eurostar train service was faster and cheaper than Ryanair's flights from London 
Stansted to Brussels Charleroi.
Speaking today, Ryanair's Head of Communications, Peter Sherrard said, "only in the parallel universe of the ASA 
quango can a 1 hr 10 minute flight be declared to be longer than a 2hr 11minute train journey. Even a 4 yr old with 
basic maths could tell you that the flight is shorter. Similarly, only the mathematically challenged ASA could declare 
that a £15 airfare is 'not necessarily cheaper' than a £27 train ticket". 
The airline has today sent a Dummies Guide to Mathematics to the ASA "who clearly can't add and they can't 
subtract either." 
Load-Date: August 24, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to cut Charleroi over strikes
Ryanair to cut Charleroi over strikes
Business World (Digest) 
August 22, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 118 words
Highlight: Ryanair has suspended all flights from its hub at Charleroi near Brussels because of strikes there.
Body
Ryanair has suspended all flights from its hub at Charleroi near Brussels from November 12 because it wants a 
guarantee there will be no more wildcat strikes, a statement on its Website said.
The airport was paralysed by a strike on the weekend of 15 to 17 June.
"Ryanair is determined to assure flights only if the company receives assurance that any future strike will not block 
the international airport. An emergency plan must be put in place," the statement said.
 Charleroi airport said it was in talks with the company to find a solution. "We have increased our contacts and 
initiatives to find a quick and favourable response to the demands of Ryanair," said Pierre Fernemont, spokesman 
for the airport.
Load-Date: August 24, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to suspend Belgian flights
Ryanair to suspend Belgian flights
Business World (Digest) 
August 22, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 152 words
Highlight: Ryanair is suspending flights from its hub at Charleroi from November.
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair is suspending flights from its hub at Charleroi near Brussels from November 12 because of 
the risk of wildcat strikes at the airport, it said in a statement. 
Security staff at Charleroi staged a wildcat strike over the weekend of June 15-17 causing the cancellation of 
thousands of Ryanair flights, and the airline said it was stopping all bookings until the issue was resolved. 
Ryanair said Charleroi Airport had assured it that it was tackling the staff grievances. 
 "However, Ryanair is determined to ensure that its flights and passengers at Charleroi will not be cancelled again 
and so there must be an effective contingency plan in place to keep this international airport open and operational 
even if some staff wish to engage in wildcat strikes in the future," it said. Flights to and from the airport in August, 
September and October are unaffected by the suspensions, it said. 
Load-Date: August 24, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ edges higher with CRH leading way
ISEQ edges higher with CRH leading way
Business World (Digest) 
August 22, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 153 words
Highlight: The Dublin market made steady progress in the opening hours with construction shares making a solid 
start.
Body
The Dublin market made steady progress in the opening hours this morning with construction shares making a solid 
start.
Just before midday the ISEQ index of Irish shares was up 58.01 points to 8,246.12.
The strong start to the session came after Wall Street closed in the black overnight, however, gains were capped by 
persistent credit fears.
 CRH led the way in the construction sector, jumping 72c to 20.81, while housebuilder Abbey edged up 14c to 9.29 
and Grafton climbed 25c to 9.75. McInerney was down 1c at 2.19. Those gains helped outweigh a mixed start by 
the financials. Bank of Ireland was down 19c to 13.30, while AIB was down 1c at 19.15. However, Anglo Irish and 
Irish Life and Permanent both made strides into positive territory, tacking on 22c to 13.85 and 8c to 17.82 
respectively. Other notable movers this morning included Elan, up 12c to 13.02, CPL Resource, up 13c to 6.48, and 
Ryanair, up 10c to 5.10.
Load-Date: August 24, 2007
End of Document
Broker Roundup: ING remains upbeat in Standard Life
Broker Roundup: ING remains upbeat in Standard Life
Citywire
August 22, 2007 Wednesday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 330 words
Body
ING reiterates its buy rating for Standard Life with a 360p price target.
Among other recommendations:
* Morgan Stanley upgrades Kesa Electricals to equal-weight from underweight with a 300p target
* Deutsche Bank upgrades Reuters to buy from hold, raising target to 740p from 650p, downgrades Pearson to hold 
from buy cutting target to 915p from 930p and has a buy and 415p target for JKX Oil & Gas
* Citigroup reiterates hold Brixton, cutting target to 460p from 520p, has a buy for Weir Group, cutting target to 770p 
from 805p and a buy and £17.16 target for Persimmon
* JP Morgan has an overweight and £16 target for Punch Taverns and has overweights in easyJet and Ryanair
* Evolution reiterates buy and £17 target for BHP Billiton, has an add and 675p target for ICI, a reduce and 465p 
target for Sainsbury, a buy and 500p target for Tullow Oil, a buy and 779p target for Venture Production and a buy 
and 225p target for Waterman
* Altium Securities upgrades Goals Soccer centres to buy from add with a 440p target, reiterates buy for Keller 
Group with an £11.50 target and upgrades Marstons to buy from hold, cutting target to 440p from 462p
* Seymour Pierce reiterates outperform H&T Group and has a sell for Lonmin
* Goldman Sachs has a neutral for Sage Group, cutting target to 250p from 275p and has a neutral on Weir Group 
cutting target to 710p from 740p
* KBC Peel Hunt has buys for Tullow Oil and Venture Production
* WH Ireland retains market perform for Formation Group
* Numis ugrades Zergo to buy from add with a 285p target, AB Foods to add from hold 950p, BHP Billiton to add 
from hold £15.40 and Whitbread to buy from add £23.05
* Panmure Gordon reiterates buy and 248p target for Delek Global Real Estate, has a buy and 36p target for EBT 
Mobile China, a buy and £14.23 target for Persimmon and a hold and 214p target for Stagecoach.
Broker Roundup: ING remains upbeat in Standard Life
* Credit Suisse reiterates neutral for BP cutting target by 4% to 615p and an outperform for Royal Dutch Shell, 
cutting target by 2% to £21.50
Load-Date: August 25, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair advert was 'misleading' News Digest
Ryanair advert was 'misleading' News Digest
Financial Times (London, England)
August 22, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 75 words
Byline: By CARLOS GRANDE
Body
Ryanair, the budget airline, has been banned from claiming its London to Brussels flight was faster and cheaper 
than Eurostar.
Its advertisement for flights from London Stansted to Charleroi airport in Brussels was misleading, the Advertising 
Standards authority said.
The watchdog said the claims did not include transit times Ryanair passengers faced travelling from central London 
to Stansted and from Charleroi to Brussels city centre.
Carlos Grande
Load-Date: August 21, 2007
End of Document
More News: Minmet shares suspended
More News: Minmet shares suspended
Citywire
August 22, 2007 Wednesday 8:07 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 192 words
Body
Minmet shares suspended; appoints Brian Gibbs and Peter Maddocks as executive directors; Davy resigns as IEX 
adviser and broker; chief executive Michael Nolan resigns to pursue other business interests; Brian Gibbs and 
Peter Maddocks take 7.48% interest in company.
* Shell and OJSC Alliance establish fuel retail joint venture in the Ukraine * Robinson first-half profit £1.1 million vs 
loss £1.4 million; sees second-half revenues stronger; challenges continue * Secure Design enters new fingerprint 
image sensor project with Sanyo * Advent Air's Skywest signs interline agreement with Hahn Air * In House Group 
sells Edenfield development for £495,000; to improve cashflow by £65,000 next year * Frontline second-quarter 
operating and pre-tax in line as earnings per share jumps on better market and one-offs * Ryanair Brussels ads 
banned over claims of being faster and cheaper than Eurostar * Babcock & Brown to pay 3.35p interim dividend; in 
line with target * Nasdaq considering hike to cash part of OMX bid * Xstrata to buy back further 900,000 shares via 
Batiss Investments * Rentokil Initial to replace Hanson in the FTSE 100n index from tonight
Load-Date: August 25, 2007
End of Document
Thomson Financial UK at a glance share guide
Thomson Financial UK at a glance share guide
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 21, 2007 Tuesday 7:27 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 609 words
Body
Leading shares are seen higher this morning following sharp gains in Asia overnight as a positive close on Wall 
Street Monday raised hopes that the recent turmoil in credit markets may be starting to abate.
According to IG Index, the FTSE 100 is expected to open around 20 points firmer at 6,098 having closed Monday's 
session up 14.5 points.
MARKETS
FTSE 100 6,078.7, up 14.5
FTSE 250 10,703.8, up 17.6
DJIA 13,121.30, up 42.20
Nasdaq Comp 2,508.59, up 3.56
S&P 500 1,445.55, down 0.40
Tokyo: Nikkei midday 15,967.82, up 235.34
Hang Seng midday 22,196.63, up 601.0
Gold 658.05 usd (656.75 usd)
Oil - Brent Oct 69.85 usd (70.30 usd)
TODAY'S PRESS
* Fed fails to calm money markets; frantic scramble to buy US Treasuries; Deutsche Bank takes up US reserve's 
loan offer - FT
* Subprime crisis hits Solent and KKR units - FT
* Capital One to close lending arm as US mortgage turmoil spreads - FT
* Nasdaq to sell London Stock Exchange stake to boost OMX bid - FT
Thomson Financial UK at a glance share guide
* Nasdaq's LSE stake could go to Borse Dubai - Mail
* Chemical pyjamas add to safety nightmare for Chinese exports - FT
* HSBC in talks to buy a controlling stake in Korea Exchange Bank from Lone Star for about 2.8 bln stg - FT
* Pemex cuts crude production by about 2.65 mln barrels a day as a hurricane approaches - FT
* Northern Rock says it has sold nearly 500 mln stg of commercial property loans as the UK mortgage provider 
seeks to reassure investors about the impact of recent market turmoil; it reports it has minimal exposure to the US 
subprime sector - FT
* Ryanair becomes biggest shareholder in Air Lingus after raising its stake to more than 29 pct - FT
* General Electric believed to be thinking of selling Lake, its Japanese consumer finance subsidiary, amid a 
shrinking market and claims of excessive interest payments - FT
* Sir Richard Branson mulls floating 1.5 bln stg Atlantic airline - Mail
* Bidders anticipate 3 bln stg sale of Gatwick airport - Times
* Shares in Imperial Tobacco tumble amid fears that the turbulence in global credit markets could force the group to 
pursue a bigger rights issue to finance its 8.5 bln stg takeover of Altadis - Times
* Longacre reviews 26 pct stake for Chrysalis founder Chris Wright - Telegraph
PRESS COMMENT
FT
THE LEX COLUMN comments on HSBC/KEB (minorities should bear in mind that any sale is unlikely to be swift -- 
and there is no guarantee they will receive the same price as Lone Star), US markets (the markets' extreme mood 
swings look set to continue), Nasdaq/LSE, ECB and rates - LONDON: Morrison (renewed hopes of property sell-
off), Rentokil Initial (to replace Hanson in FTSE 100 later this week)
Mail
ANALYSIS: Workspace (buy), Keller (buy)
Times
Tempus: Emap (buy), Hiscox (hold), Raymarine (avoid) - Rumour of the day: Hardide (said to be about to raise a 1 
mln stg loan to accelerate its move into supplying aerospace industry customers, such as BAE Systems) - Deal of 
the day: QinetiQ (chief exec buys 50,000 shares at 172 pence)
Independent
THE INVESTMENT COLUMN: Close Bros (buy), Christian Salvesen (sell), Raymarine (hold) - MARKET REPORT: 
Northern Rock (buoyed by Lloyds TSB takeover talk)
Telegraph
QUESTOR: Michael Page (buy), Keller Group (buy)
FORTHCOMING EVENTS
TUESDAY AUG 21
Thomson Financial UK at a glance share guide
INTERIMS
CBG Group
Mears Group
Persimmon
Weir Group
FINALS
None scheduled
AGMs
Accident Exchange Group
Bateman Litwin
EGMs
International Real Estate
ECONOMICS
* No UK data scheduled
MARKET EXPECTATIONS
* Mears Group. Dresdner Kleinwort forecasts six months to June pretax profit 6.83 mln stg vs 5.43 mln; interim 
dividend 1.2 pence vs 0.9
* Persimmon six months to June pretax profit 276-280 mln stg vs 271.5 mln
* Weir Group six months to June pretax profit 39.6-41.8 mln stg vs 37.2 mln
Load-Date: August 21, 2007
End of Document
Banks, builders lead ISEQ 38pts higher
Banks, builders lead ISEQ 38pts higher
Business World (Digest) 
August 21, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 498 words
Highlight: Modest gains in construction and financial shares helped lift the Dublin market marginally higher.
Body
Modest gains in construction and financial shares helped lift the Dublin market marginally higher today, however, 
concerns about credit problems in the US continue to occupy the minds of investors.
The ISEQ index swung between positive and negative territory, before closing 38.07 points higher at 8,188.11.
The performance mirrored other major bourses around the world, with indices in Frankfurt and London both closing 
slightly higher.
 The lack of direction was the result of a slow start on Wall Street as yet more credit problems emerged, raising 
investors' anxiety about what the Federal Reserve might do next to steady the markets and the economy. 
Speculation grew that troubled Countrywide Financial Corp. might be a takeover target due to losses linked to 
distressed subprime mortgages. Investors on Wall Street remain worried that a broadening credit crisis triggered by 
distressed subprime loans will curtail borrowing to the point where it hurts companies across the economy. 
Meanwhile, dealers in Europe remain concerned about how such a situation would effect the economy in Europe. In 
Dublin today, financial shares edged into the black with AIB 38c higher at 19.16, Bank of Ireland up 18c to 13.48 
and Irish Life and Permanent down 6c at 17.74. Anglo Irish Bank was the biggest faller in the sector, dropping 21c 
to close at 13.63 Construction shares were marginally more positive, with McInerney edging up 3pc, or 7c, to 2.20, 
CRH tacking on 12c to 30.09 and Grafton adding on 11c to 9.50. Kingspan bucked the positive trend, slipping 10c 
to 15.80. Elsewhere, both Ryanair and Aer Lingus were little changed after it was confirmed on Monday that 
Ryanair has upped its stake in the former state airline by 4pc to 29.4pc. Shares in Ryanair closed 2c higher at 5.03 
in Dublin this evening, while Aer Lingus ended the session unchanged at 2.45. Other notable movers included 
drinks group C and C, down 16c to 5.58, Finance Ireland, down 14pc, or 1c, to 0.09, and Siteserv, down 4pc, or 2c, 
to 0.48. Meanwhile, shares in Irish Continental Group gained 16c to 24.32 following the announcement that 
property developer Liam Carroll has bought more shares in the ferry operator. Carroll now owns 19.28pc of the 
company, having earlier this week bought 26,892 shares priced between E24.10 and E25.00. The move comes 
Banks, builders lead ISEQ 38pts higher
after the independent directors of ICG yesterday gave their backing to the new MBO offer from chief executive chief 
executive Eamonn Rothwell and his colleagues. Their Aella consortium has offered E24 per share, which values the 
group at just under E612m. This compares to the previous E22 a share offer, which both Aella and the Moonduster 
consortium - which comprises One51 and Doyle Group - had been willing to pay. On a more positive note, shares in 
bookmaker Paddy Power jumped by more than 1pc, or 43c, to 22.30, while insurance group FBD Holdings added 
on 80c to 26.25 and AGI Therapeutics tacked on 7c to 1.50. Drug maker Elan ended the day 8c higher at 12.89.
Load-Date: August 23, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair lifts Aer Lingus stake to 29%
Ryanair lifts Aer Lingus stake to 29%
Financial Times (London, England)
August 21, 2007 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES UK; Pg. 16
Length: 348 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE
Body
Ryanair has raised its stake in Aer Lingus, its smaller Irish rival, to more than 29 per cent, making it the biggest 
shareholder ahead of the Irish government.
Europe's leading low-cost carrier is prohibited from making another full takeover bid for Aer Lingus, however, 
following the decision by the European competition authorities in late June to block its original offer made last year.
Ryanair is expected to file an appeal shortly to the European Court of First Instance against the competition 
authorities' decision.
Neelie Kroes, the European competition commissioner, said in June that a combination of the two carriers would 
have led to a near-monopoly in the Irish market and would have harmed passengers.
She ruled out any move to force the low-cost airline to divest its then 25 per cent stake, however.
The blocking of a full bid has not deterred Ryanair from exploiting the recent fall in Aer Lingus's share price to take 
it close to the maximum 29.9 per cent threshold allowed before a full takeover bid would normally be triggered.
Ryanair said last night that it had acquired a further 4 per cent stake in Aer Lingus, taking its holding to above 29.4 
per cent.
It said the new shares had been acquired at or at less than Euros 2.45 per share; this had lowered the average cost 
of its shares in Aer Lingus, which it had previously accumulated during the bid.
Ryanair has passed the 25.4 per cent stake still held by the Irish government in the former state-owned carrier.
Chris Avery, aviation analyst at JPMorgan, said, "to continue buying, after the EC has given a negative opinion, 
lacks logic".
The Ryanair share price last night closed nine cents higher at Euros 5.02, while the Aer Lingus price closed three 
cents higher at Euros 2.42.
Ryanair lifts Aer Lingus stake to 29%
Aer Lingus did win some respite yesterday, however, when its pilots suspended their decision to begin a 48-hour 
strike today.
The strike had been called in protest against the plan to end services between Shannon in the west of Ireland and 
London Heathrow under moves by Aer Lingus to open an operating base at Belfast International airport.
Load-Date: August 20, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair launches money shop on website
Ryanair launches money shop on website
Business World (Digest) 
August 21, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 103 words
Highlight: Ryanair launched a new low cost one-stop-shop for its passengers.
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair today launched a new low cost one-stop-shop for all passengers financial needs.
Ryanair says its passengers can now avail of commission free foreign currency with Travelex travelling from the 
UK; low cost travel insurance; the cheapest home insurance and life assurance, Ryanair Credit cards as well as 3V 
Visa prepaid vouchers on their website. 
Launching the new site, Ryanair's head of ancillary revenue, Santina Doherty said,"Ryanair.com is not only home to 
the lowest guaranteed fares, but from today our passengers can avail of great value travel and personal finance 
with Ryanair Money."
Load-Date: August 23, 2007
End of Document
AER LINGUS GROUP PLC
AER LINGUS GROUP PLC
WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS
August 21, 2007 Tuesday
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved
Information Bank Abstracts
Section: Section A; Column 2; Pg. 9
Length: 46 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings has boosted its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus Group to 29.4% to become largest shareholder; 
separately, Aer Lingus pilots call off their strike threat over plans to hire pilots in Northern Ireland under terms 
different from their own union-negotiated deal (S)
Load-Date: August 23, 2007
End of Document
Tuesday Papers: Nasdaq won't sell LSE stake to single buyer - bid news and gossip
Tuesday Papers: Nasdaq won't sell LSE stake to single buyer - bid news and 
gossip
Citywire
August 21, 2007 Tuesday 7:10 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 144 words
Body
Nasdaq says it will not sell 30% of London Stock Exchange to single buyer.
* Ryanair raises stake in Aer Lingus by 4% to 29.4% * HSBC seeks to buy Korea Exchange Bank from Lone Star 
for about £2.8 billion * Market turbulence threatens to scupper a racing consortium's bid to run the Tote * Fears of a 
bigger rights issue to fund Altadis bid overshadows Imperial Tobacco * Falling share price likely to foil Barclays in 
race for ABN Amro * General Electric believed to be thinking of selling Lake, its Japanese consumer finance 
subsidiary * Toshiba to buy Kazakh uranium mining rights * Potential buyers for BAA's Gatwick airport are 
positioning themselves ahead of an anticipated £3 billion-plus auction * First Quantum Minerals says Coventree 
fails to pay $7.5 million note on liquidity squeeze * Interactive Gaming suspends operations pending financial 
assessment
Load-Date: August 24, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair boosts stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus , seeks to pressure government
Ryanair boosts stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus, seeks to pressure government
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 20, 2007 Monday 5:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 399 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair said Monday it has boosted its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus to 29.4 percent, cementing its 
position as the No. 1 shareholder and adding pressure on the government.
Ryanair Holdings PLC said it bought an additional 4 percent of shares over the past week in a bid to encourage the 
government to step in and block Aer Lingus' plans to shut down key services between London's Heathrow and 
Shannon, the major airport in western Ireland.
Analysts said Ryanair also appeared to be trying to promote itself as a more competent manager of Aer Lingus 
interests than the airline's current directors. They have provoked widespread anger in western Ireland with their 
plans to shift strategic Heathrow slots to a new hub in the Northern Ireland capital, Belfast.
Ryanair's audacious bid to take over Aer Lingus has been on hold since June, when European Union authorities 
ruled out a merger as likely to create an Irish monopoly.
It already faced daunting opposition from the government, which retained a 25-percent stake when it privatized the 
previously state-owned airline in September 2006, and employee-controlled trusts holding 22 percent more.
Ryanair's position as the top shareholder has already forced Aer Lingus to commit to holding an extraordinary 
general meeting to vote on its plans to close Heathrow-Shannon services and switch them to Belfast in mid-
January.
In a statement to the Irish Stock Exchange, Ryanair said it was willing to abstain in the vote and open the way for 
the government and labor union leaders to veto the planned axing of Shannon-Heathrow services.
Ryanair said that, if it stood aside, the government and Aer Lingus employees' share-ownership trust "will have a 
clear majority and can vote as shareholders to save the Shannon-Heathrow route."
"Aer Lingus can and should develop Belfast, but without abandoning Shannon-Heathrow," Ryanair said.
Ryanair boosts stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus , seeks to pressure government
Aer Lingus chief executive Dermot Mannion has defended the switch from Shannon to Belfast on the grounds that 
the latter will prove more profitable. Business leaders in the west of Ireland, including the major cities of Galway and 
Limerick, say it will cripple their efforts to keep and develop multinational corporations dependent on Heathrow 
connections for business.
Ryanair's move came on the same day that Aer Lingus averted a threatened strike by its pilots over its plans to 
open services in Belfast.
Load-Date: August 21, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair boosts stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus , seeks to pressure government
Ryanair boosts stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus, seeks to pressure government
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 20, 2007 Monday 6:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 399 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair said Monday it has boosted its stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus to 29.4 percent, cementing its 
position as the No. 1 shareholder and adding pressure on the government.
Ryanair Holdings PLC said it bought an additional 4 percent of shares over the past week in a bid to encourage the 
government to step in and block Aer Lingus' plans to shut down key services between London's Heathrow and 
Shannon, the major airport in western Ireland.
Analysts said Ryanair also appeared to be trying to promote itself as a more competent manager of Aer Lingus 
interests than the airline's current directors. They have provoked widespread anger in western Ireland with their 
plans to shift strategic Heathrow slots to a new hub in the Northern Ireland capital, Belfast.
Ryanair's audacious bid to take over Aer Lingus has been on hold since June, when European Union authorities 
ruled out a merger as likely to create an Irish monopoly.
It already faced daunting opposition from the government, which retained a 25-percent stake when it privatized the 
previously state-owned airline in September 2006, and employee-controlled trusts holding 22 percent more.
Ryanair's position as the top shareholder has already forced Aer Lingus to commit to holding an extraordinary 
general meeting to vote on its plans to close Heathrow-Shannon services and switch them to Belfast in mid-
January.
In a statement to the Irish Stock Exchange, Ryanair said it was willing to abstain in the vote and open the way for 
the government and labor union leaders to veto the planned axing of Shannon-Heathrow services.
Ryanair said that, if it stood aside, the government and Aer Lingus employees' share-ownership trust "will have a 
clear majority and can vote as shareholders to save the Shannon-Heathrow route."
"Aer Lingus can and should develop Belfast, but without abandoning Shannon-Heathrow," Ryanair said.
Ryanair boosts stake in Irish rival Aer Lingus , seeks to pressure government
Aer Lingus chief executive Dermot Mannion has defended the switch from Shannon to Belfast on the grounds that 
the latter will prove more profitable. Business leaders in the west of Ireland, including the major cities of Galway and 
Limerick, say it will cripple their efforts to keep and develop multinational corporations dependent on Heathrow 
connections for business.
Ryanair's move came on the same day that Aer Lingus averted a threatened strike by its pilots over its plans to 
open services in Belfast.
Load-Date: August 21, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair buys another 4pc of Aer Lingus
Ryanair buys another 4pc of Aer Lingus
Business World (Digest) 
August 20, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 208 words
Highlight: Ryanair said it has bought up another 4pc of rival Aer Lingus taking its holding to just over 29.4pc.
Body
No-frills airline, Ryanair, today said it has bought up another 4pc of rival Aer Lingus taking its holding to just over 
29.4pc.
"These new shares were acquired at or less than E2.45 per share which lowers the average cost of Ryanair's 
shares in Aer Lingus," a Ryanair spokesman said.
The purchase makes Ryanair the largest shareholder in Aer Lingus, ahead of the Government, which owns 25pc, 
and the employee share ownership trust, which own 15pc.
 "This further investment in Aer Lingus, will make it easier for the other large shareholders (the Government and the 
unions) to support the forthcoming EGM motion to save the Shannon-Heathrow route while still supporting Aer 
Lingus' new base in Belfast," he said. Should Ryanair (with its 29pc stake) abstain from voting at the EGM - as it 
has offered to do - then the Government (25pc) and the ESOT (15pc) will have a clear majority and can vote as 
shareholders to save the Shannon-Heathrow route. "Interestingly, should the Government also decide to abstain 
then the ESOT and other Aer Lingus employees (with around 7pc) should have sufficient votes between them to 
comprise a majority of the remaining 45pc of shareholders, and can vote to save the Shannon-Heathrow route, 
should they so wish," he added.
Load-Date: August 23, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair ups stake in Aer Lingus by 4 pct to 29.4 pct
Ryanair ups stake in Aer Lingus by 4 pct to 29.4 pct
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 20, 2007 Monday 5:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 29 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC, the Irish no-frills airline, said today that it has acquired a further 4 pct stake in Aer Lingus, 
taking its holding in its Irish competitor to 29.4 pct.
Load-Date: August 20, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair ups stake in Aer Lingus by 4pc
Ryanair ups stake in Aer Lingus by 4pc
Business World (Digest) 
August 20, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 99 words
Highlight: Ryanair today confirmed that it had acquired a further 4pc stake in Aer.
Body
Ryanair today confirmed that it had acquired a further 4pc stake in Aer Lingus, taking its holding in Aer Lingus to 
over 29.4pc. 
These new shares were acquired at or less than E2.45 per share which lowers the average cost of Ryanair's shares 
in Aer Lingus.
The purchase makes Ryanair the largest shareholder in Aer Lingus, ahead of the Irish government, which has 
25pc, and the employee share ownership trust, which own 12.6pc.
 Ryanair launched a failed bid for Aer Lingus last October, shortly after the Irish flag carrier was floated in 
September, at E2.80 a share, valuing the group at E1.48bn. 
Load-Date: August 23, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair wants cheaper travel insurance
Ryanair wants cheaper travel insurance
Business World (Digest) 
August 20, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 199 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said it wants cheaper insurance for its customers.
Body
No- frills airline Ryanair today said it wants cheaper insurance for its customers because it loses fewer bags.
In a statement, the airline said that it has written to ABI, the Association of British Insurers to urge them to introduce 
risk assessed consumer travel insurance policies based on airline performance. 
"The ever widening gulf between Ryanair's industry leading customer service and the bag losing, frequently delayed 
habits of British Airways means that insurance actuaries should now launch policies that provide discounts for 
passengers travelling with reliable airlines. 
 "The latest available airline statistics show that while the number of bags lost by Ryanair declined from 0.5 per 
1,000 last year to 0.4 this year, the situation at British Airways has gone from bad to worse, from 21 bags per 1,000 
last year to 28 per 1,000 this year," the airline said in a statement. Speaking today, Ryanair's Peter Sherrard said, 
"For years, the car insurance industry has provided discounts for low risk categories such as women drivers and the 
over thirties. The time has now come for passengers flying with airlines that deliver the best customer service to 
enjoy the same discounts." 
Load-Date: August 22, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ edges higher as recovery continues
ISEQ edges higher as recovery continues
Business World (Digest) 
August 20, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 198 words
Highlight: The Dublin market added to Friday's gains in opening deals today after a recovery on Wall St on Friday.
Body
The Dublin market added to Friday's gains in opening deals today after a recovery on Wall St on Friday and by 
buoyed by strong gains on Asian markets overnight.
Just before midday the ISEQ index of Irish shares was up 1pc, or 81.46 points, to 8,187.93.
The gains were in line with other major bourses around Europe.
 Financial shares were largely higher with AIB up 31c to 18.88, Bank of Ireland up 26c to 13.35 and Irish Life and 
Permanent up 17c to 17.82. Anglo Irish Bank bucked the positive trend, slipping 5c to 13.90. Construction equities 
also made modest progress, with CRH up 18c to 30.18 and Grafton up 3c to 9.41. Kingspan was unchanged at 
16.20, while McInerney was up 5c to 2.18. Other notable movers in the early stages included C and C, up 15c to 
5.85, Ryanair, up 15c to 5.10, and United Drug, up 15c to 3.50. On the negative side, Irish Continental Group was 
down 90c at 24.10 after independent directors at the ferries group recommended a new improved offer for the 
group from Aella, the management takeover vehicle led by chief executive, Eamonn Rothwell. Aella has raised its 
offer to E24 per share with a total value of E611.8m compared to the previous offer of E22 a share.
Load-Date: August 22, 2007
End of Document
Ticket sales for Sunderland continue to rise
Ticket sales for Sunderland continue to rise
Sunday Business Post
August 19, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS FEATURES
Length: 387 words
Body
Sunderland FC, which is owned by a group of Irish investors, has enjoyed a huge boost to its fanbase from the 
rising number of Irish football fans travelling to Sunderland to support them.
Since Roy Keane took over as manager, there has been more demand than ever for tickets to Premiership games 
involving the north-eastern English club.
Celtic Horizon Tours, the official Irish agents for Sunderland FC, sells ticket packages to all Premier League games. 
Managing director David Buckley said that the number of fans travelling from Ireland to see Keane's team in action 
has already been a feature of the new season.
''Sales of Sunderland tickets are going very well now," he said. ''With an Irish manager, Irish owners and a decent 
amount of Irish players, you can see why the fanbase here is growing. Keane has had a huge effect at Sunderland.
''We don't do full packages to those games as Ryanair and Aer Lingus fly there as it is. A hotel room is guaranteed 
too, so it is not difficult to arrange a trip. We also do packages for less than &euro;500 for all of the London clubs, 
such as Arsenal and Chelsea. We block-book seats on the first flights out of Dublin on Saturday morning, and back 
again on the last flight on Sunday evening."
Meanwhile, the events management company Platinum One, the main organiser of the Ryder Cup 2006 opening 
ceremony in the K Club in Co Kildare, recently hosted friendlies in Scotland and Chicago.
More than 100,000 people attended six games, which featured the 2006 Champions League winners Barcelona, 
current Uefa Cup holders Sevilla and Mexican outfit Deportivo Toluca.
In Scotland, Barcelona played two friendly fixtures, the first of which was in front of a capacity crowd of 14,255 at 
Tannadice against Dundee United on July 26.
Ticket sales for Sunderland continue to rise
Two days later, they played Edinburgh side Hearts at Murrayfield. The game drew an attendance of 57,857, the 
biggest crowd in Hearts' history.
Soldier Field Stadium in Chicago played host to the inaugural Chicago Trophy, which featured Wisla Krakow, 
Sevilla, Deportivo Toluca and Italian side Reggina. Over 34,000 people watched the tournament.
Fintan Drury, chairman of Platinum One, said: "The manner in which the two projects were received in both 
countries [the US and Scotland] was fantastic, and we are looking forward to planning next summer's activities."
Load-Date: August 19, 2007
End of Document
Comment: O'Leary's latest mischief-making may backfire
Comment: O'Leary's latest mischief-making may backfire
Sunday Business Post
August 19, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: THE MARKET
Length: 627 words
Body
Be careful what you wish for. Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary was in flying form last week as he threw yet 
more spanners into the Aer Lingus works by calling an extraordinary general meeting in an attempt to block the 
former state airline's plans to axe its Shannon-Heathrow operations.
But although he is gleefully creating further distractions for Aer Lingus boss Dermot Mannion after tying him up for 
months with his aborted takeover attempt, O'Leary could also be stirring up trouble for himself.
Ryanair shares fell on Friday on the back of news that the airline had snapped up a further 3 per cent of Aer Lingus, 
bringing its total shareholding to 28 per cent.
O'Leary should take note. Many of his shareholders do not share his enthusiasm for his Aer Lingus crusade and 
would prefer if he would concentrate his attention on his day job that of running Ryanair, arguably the most 
successful low-fares airline in the world.
Ryanair investors, by and large, do not care for Aer Lingus. If they did, they would buy its shares directly instead of 
relying on O'Leary to invest in it for them.
They tolerated O'Leary's adventures while the takeover saga dragged on, but his recent willingness to spend yet 
more time fixated on his smaller rival is unlikely to be welcomed.
O'Leary has tied up over &euro;300 million of Ryanair's cash in Aer Lingus, but the share price has begun to 
dwindle below the average cost of building up the stake.
If O'Leary cashed in at current prices, Ryanair would be in loss-making territory. That cash could have been used 
investing in Ryanair's core activities - adding more routes, buying more planes - or, failing that, returned to 
shareholders through additional share buybacks or even dividends.
Comment: O'Leary's latest mischief-making may backfire
Ryanair investors don't care if Aer Lingus flies from Shannon or Belfast, as long as their own airline makes money 
and Aer Lingus's operations don't harm that.
But their chief executive is now devoting attention to calling for Aer Lingus emergency general meetings and 
offering advice on improving profitability in Shannon, as well as using their money to have his fun.
O'Leary has enjoyed the role of angry shareholder making trouble for the chief executive. He'll hope that none of his 
own shareholders feel like doing the same thing.
APN takeover
Perpetual and other institutional investors blocked the Independent News &Media (INM) takeover bid for Australian 
media company APN in May, with some shareholders claiming that the offer did not fairly reflect the price needed to 
gain control of the company.
But the price put on the table by the Tony O'Reilly-led group isn't looking so shabby now.
Australian bank Macquarie recently forecast that shares in APN, in which INM is a major investor, would fall 
toA$5.20.This is A$1 less than the A$6.20 (&euro;3.83) a share offered by INM and private equity backers in the 
failed takeover bid.
The bank doubts that another bid will emerge for the company and has rated the stock as underperforming.
APN, which reported first half figures during the week, is now close to the levels forecast by Macquarie, closing at 
AU$5.26 on Friday.
Macquarie analyst Alex Pollak believes there is now ''only a small chance of any corporate activity, given the 
current state of the debt market''. Although INM would have received &euro;400 million from the deal, Pollak noted 
chief operating officer Gavin O'Reilly appeared to rule out another offer last month.
The analyst said a new bidder looked unlikely given the fact that INM owns a 38.3 per cent stake in the company.
Pollak also said it was unlikely that APN's chief executive Brendan Hopkins would sell half of the company to 
private equity as other Australian media groups have done. As a result, Pollak believes the share price will continue 
to slide.
Load-Date: August 19, 2007
End of Document
Shannon: Mannion's Rubicon
Shannon: Mannion's Rubicon
Sunday Business Post
August 19, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS FEATURES
Length: 1416 words
Body
Resolving the dispute over the Shannon to Healthrow route could decide the entire future of the airline, writes 
Markets Correspondent David Clerkin.
Overcoming the problems on the banks of the Shannon will be Aer Lingus chief Dermot Mannion's Rubicon. Just 
like Julius Caesar before him, it will determine the direction of an empire.
The decision by rival Ryanair to flex its muscle on the Aer Lingus shareholder register threw a new and potentially 
sinister light on Mannion's attempts to drag his airline away from its semi-state past and operate as a fully 
commercial carrier, in dependent of political interference.
Although Mannion's management team had legal advice assuring them shareholder backing would not be 
necessary to transfer Aer Lingus's Shannon-Heathrow services to Belfast, Ryanair's mischievous intervention has 
sent the lawyers back to the drawing board.
It was true that Aer Lingus did not need to call an extraordinary general meeting (egm) to approve the re-allocation 
of its Heathrow slots.
But unfortunately for Mannion's legal eagles, it always remained open to shareholders with more than 10 per cent of 
the company to call an egm for any reason they wanted.
While it is highly unusual for most institutional shareholders to create trouble for their management teams, the 
presence of a major dissident shareholder on the share register always has the potential for unforeseen trouble.
Greencore felt the brunt of this six years ago when the former semi-state food group's chairman, Bernie Cahill, 
needed shareholder approval at an annual general meeting (agm) to extend his term in office.
Shannon: Mannion's Rubicon
Few would have foreseen that the move would be blocked by billionaire investor Dermot Desmond. He used the 22 
per cent stake he held at the time to sensationally bring Cahill's reign to an end, as shareholders and other board 
members looked on in astonishment.
Ryanair's decision to call an egm over the Shannon issue means that Mannion faces discomfort on a potentially 
similar scale in the few weeks ahead.
It will also force the other key shareholders - the government, t he employee share ownership trust (Esot) and Aer 
Lingus's institutional investors - into a corner, as they decide how to vote and what the consequences of such a 
vote might be.
Ryanair proposed two motions in a letter to the Aer Lingus board last week but it is the first of the two that will cause 
Mannion's headaches.
It proposes that ''directors of the company be . . . directed to take such actions as may be required to preserve and 
maintain the company's existing profitable Shannon-Heathrow services'', as well as take other actions to improve 
profits on the Shannon routes.
The second relates to replacing the proposed Belfast-Heathrow services with flights to Gatwick instead.
Mannion has strongly resisted attempts by outsiders to call the shots on his behalf so far, but Ryanair's move has 
put his destiny outside his control. His board is now required to respond to Ryanair in the next two weeks and hold 
an egm no later than seven weeks from now.
The board is likely to spend considerable time figuring out its next move. If the board is forced to proceed with the 
egm and put a motion to save the Shannon-Heathrow routes to the floor, the affair becomes a simple headcount 
exercise and Mannion would need to convince a majority of the shareholders that vote to back him and save his 
strategy.
The make-up of Aer Lingus's shareholder register suggests a vote would be tight. Ownership of the airline is very 
different to that of a typical publicly-quoted company, thanks to the presence of a number of large blocs.
They include Ryanair, which increased its stake by 3 per cent to 28 per cent last week; the government, with 25.3 
per cent; and the Esot, which has 12.6 per cent.
Unusually for a public limited company (plc), only about 30 per cent of Aer Lingus is held by institutional and other 
investors that bought shares in the company simply for investment purposes.
This figure is close to 100 per cent in the heavyweight Dublin-quoted plcs, such as CRH, AIB and Bank of Ireland. 
What is also unusual about the Aer Lingus shareholder register is the absence of small retail investors.
Individual holdings worth less than &euro;250,000 account for less than 2 per cent of the company, far less than the 
10 per cent to 20 per cent of Ireland's major plcs.
The decisions taken by the main voting blocs will dictate the success of Ryanair's motion. Mannion can expect to 
count on the institutions and pension funds that hold Aer Lingus shares, as it is the norm for the fund managers that 
control these stakes to vote along the lines recommended by the board.
This alone would give Mannion the support of up to 30 per cent of shareholders and put him well on the way to 
seeing off Ryanair's challenge. But he would be far from safe, as it is not clear where else he could look for votes.
Meanwhile, Ryanair starts from a position of strength with 28 per cent of votes. Teaming up with the government 
would give the pro-Shannon camp a clear majority of 53 per cent and see the motion carried.
Shannon: Mannion's Rubicon
But the government's support is unlikely to be forthcoming, despite all the noises made over the past two weeks. 
Political meddling would sound the death knell for Aer Lingus as a plc and scare away most of the institutional 
investors that had bought into the airline.
If the government decides it is unable to vote against Aer Lingus management, however, it is equally unlikely to 
back it, as this would require it to effectively endorse the plan to axe the Shannon routes.
The odds would appear to favour the government abstaining and letting Aer Lingus's other shareholders fight it out 
among themselves.
The decision of the Esot will thus be critical. The employee trust controls 14.4 per cent of votes and backing the 
Ryanair motion would give the pro-Shannon lobby 42.2 per cent - enough to win the vote in the event of the 
government abstaining.
But the Esot trustees will find it difficult to make the decision purely to save 45 jobs at the Shannon base, as they 
are required to uphold the interests of Esot members as a whole.
It would be difficult for the trustees to explain their decision to members if the vote results in Aer Lingus being a less 
profitable airline and the value of their investment suffers as a result.
It would also represent a leap into the unknown for the Esot, as defeating the chief executive on such a high-profile 
issue would almost certainly be enough for an undermined Mannion to quit.
The airline would then need to find a replacement with the appetite to take on a company with a heavily polarised 
shareholder base, entrenched work practices and a devastated reputation.
A number of other shareholders face an uncomfortable decision. Two per cent of the company is held by a pilots' 
pension fund, while a further 2 per cent is in the hands of Tailwind, an investment group formed by pilots to take 
advantage of last year's flotation.
Although the pilots plan to hold a two-day strike this week in protest at plans to hire cheaper pilots to operate from 
Belfast, their pension fund may find itself required to exercise its votes in pursuit of maximising the value of the 
fund's investment.
So while pilots oppose Mannion's strategy, their pension fund may find itself forced to hold its nose and vote in 
favour if it.
Also in the background is telecoms billionaire Denis O'Brien, who holds 2.3 per cent of the company.
O'Brien has yet to disclose his views on Mannion's plans, but after riding to the rescue by buying up shares to 
thwart Ryanair's attempted takeover last year, it is difficult, though not impossible, to see him supporting a move 
that would undermine Aer Lingus management.
The combined weight of O'Brien and the two pilot groupings would be unlikely to alter the result, however, 
depending on the stances taken by the government and the Esot. Mannion, in the meantime, could be forgiven for 
wondering how it all came to this.
Since giving up a straightforward and well-paid job in the Middle East to oversee Aer Lingus's flotation, his days 
have been filled with fighting off a Ryanair takeover and more recently coping with a shareholder dog-fight to dictate 
the terms of his job.
As long as the government and Esot decide against teaming up with Ryanair, he is likely to do just enough to 
survive at the helm.
But there are few that would envy his position. When Caesar crossed the Rubicon, he went on to become emperor, 
but the best that Mannion can hope for is a Pyrrhic victory.
Shannon: Mannion's Rubicon
Load-Date: August 19, 2007
End of Document
Post Mortem: How Elvis left the building
Post Mortem: How Elvis left the building
Sunday Business Post
August 19, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AGENDA
Length: 644 words
Body
Last Thursday, the world celebrated the 30th anniversary of the disappearance of Elvis Presley.
There are many different theories as to what happened to him on that fateful August day. For example, despite 
overwhelming evidence to the contrary, many people still believe he actually keeled over and died.
However, millions of normal Americans are convinced Elvis is still alive, which should be enough for any sceptic. 
After all, what are the chances that 50 million Americans are all wrong about the same thing?
The most popular theory about Elvis is that he was abducted by aliens who thought he was president of the US.
Another theory is that he simply got tired of being so rich, famous and fat that he decided to move to Galway - 
though the alien abduction theory is much more likely.
Elvis is not the only major international celebrity to have disappeared over the years. Lord Lucan, Osama bin Laden 
and Brendan O'Carroll have all been missing for some time, though nobody is actually searching for O'Carroll.
Taoiseach Bertie Ahern has also been missing over the last couple of weeks, with unconfirmed sightings of him in 
Kerry and Belfast.
There was also a newspaper report that a guy in a chip shop on the north side of Dublin was swearing he was the 
missing Taoiseach. However, when interviewed, he turned out to be much more articulate than our beloved leader.
People who unfortunately haven't gone missing over the past couple of weeks include Willie O'Dea, the Minister for 
Defence (no, really, he is), and Michael O'Leary, chief executive of Ryanair.
Interestingly, my own uncle, Virgil Profane, knew Elvis Presley well during the 1960s and 1970s, and was actually in 
Graceland on August 16, 1977.
Post Mortem: How Elvis left the building
His diary, which due to some massive legal issues, can only be published when Elvis and Shergar are both 
confirmed dead, reveals what really happened that day.
The following is an edited version of the relevant dates:
August 14, 1977
The Rose of Tralee turns out to be a major disappointment as there appears to be no swimsuit round. What were 
the organisers thinking? I drown my sorrows in the bar with Brendan Behan and Jacko [former taoiseach Jack 
Lynch] who are both equally pissed off about the lack of skimpily clad women.
The three of us get pretty drunk, and while Behan and Jacko get arrested for assaulting two of the escorts, I head 
up to a hotel room with five of the wilder Roses.
August 15, 1977
I wake up in what appears to be some kind of mental hospital for fat, talentless Elvis impersonators.
It is only when Priscilla walks in that I realise it really is Graceland. Elvis himself is sitting in an armchair, reading 
Finnegans Wake and chuckling madly to himself. What a mentaller.
Janis Joplin then walks in and says something smart about James Joyce, so I ask her to put a sock in it and give 
me some of Elvis's pills, which she robbed from his bathroom cabinet earlier.
Elvis then disappears into the kitchen to make some quiche, while Joplin, Lenny [possibly Canadian Leonard 
Cohen] and I try to find some hooch.
We then go and play golf in the living room with Bob Dylan and Roger Moore. Moore turns out to be a really funny, 
interesting guy, so I don't smack him over the head with my nine iron. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for 
Dylan.
August 16, 1977
I wake up on the floor of Joplin's room with a hangover the size of Jutland [possibly part of Denmark].
She tells me that Elvis is dead and that the police are everywhere and want to question me. I look at her and say: 
''A little less conversation, baby!" [One of Joplin's biographers says Virgil's actual words were: ''Put a sock in it, 
hippy!"]
When the police eventually question me, I tell them that Elvis will never die and ask them if they have considered 
the possibility that he was jointly abducted by the CIA, the Kennedy brothers and the Mafia. And the rest is pretty 
much history.
Load-Date: August 19, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair now poised to win Shannon vote
Ryanair now poised to win Shannon vote
Sunday Business Post
August 19, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 638 words
Body
Aer Lingus could still be forced to maintain its services between Shannon and Heathrow if the government or the 
airline's Employee Share Ownership Trust (Esot) abstain in the crucial vote on the airline's plan to end the route.
Ryanair could now win a knife-edge vote, forcing Aer Lingus to maintain the route, unless the government or the 
Esot use their shareholdings to support management's plan.
Reports that the budget airline had increased its stake in Aer Lingus from 25 per cent to 28 per cent assumed 
crucial importance this weekend, following signals from the government that it was considering abstaining in the 
vote.
A decision by the government, which holds a 25.3 per cent stake in Aer Lingus, to abstain would leave the door 
open for Ryanair to block the transfer of the Heathrow route from Shannon to Belfast.
The vote will take place at an extraordinary general meeting (egm) called last week by Ryanair, which under 
company law must be held by early October.
An analysis of the Aer Lingus shareholder register suggests that the board can only count on the support of around 
28 per cent of shareholders, mostly made up of institutions and pension funds that bought into the company when it 
floated.
Most fund managers operate under instructions that require them to follow the board's recommendation when 
resolutions are put to shareholders for a vote.
Ryanair, however, would need only a handful of extra votes from other significant shareholders, including a pilots' 
investment group and the pilots' pension fund that between them own 4 per cent of Aer Lingus, to increase the pro-
Shannon vote above 28 per cent, if both the government and the Esot decided to abstain.
Ryanair can also buy more Aer Lingus shares and increase its stake to a maximum of 29.9 per cent.
Ryanair now poised to win Shannon vote
Aer Lingus management, however, would need the additional support of telecoms billionaire Denis O'Brien, who 
holds 2.3 per cent of the company, to come close to matching the voting power of Ryanair and the 4 per cent held 
by the two pilot groups.
In the event that the Esot opted to side with Ryanair, however, Aer Lingus's management would then be forced to 
call on the government not to abstain and instead to vote in favour of its plan to scrap the Shannon routes.
Fianna Fail politicians in the mid-west and west are to lobby the government to abstain. The political lobby 
representing Oireachtas members in the region are expected to make the proposal in order to be consistent with 
the government's stated intention not to intervene in commercial decisions.
The government moved to consolidate its position of nonintervention in Aer Lingus's commercial freedom last week 
with statements issued from ministers Mary Hanafin and Dermot Ahern supporting Minister for Transport Noel 
Dempsey.
''The logic of what the government is saying now in relation to 'not intervening' means that they can pursue a policy 
of abstaining at the egm," said a mid-west Oireachtas member.
''It would mean the government maintains its position of not interfering in the market. By voting in favour, they would 
be proactively intervening and leaving Ryanair and Esot in a minority position."
Defeat of Aer Lingus management at an egm would have serious implications for its chief executive Dermot 
Mannion.
Mannion's decision not to notify the board about the Shannon strategy was described in political circles as 
''peculiar'', considering its far-reaching implications for the airline.
''Mannion has certainly left himself wide open on this one if it does go back to the board," one source said.
Minister for Defence Willie O'Dea said last week: ''The way not to run a private company is to have the 
shareholders overrule management in relation to vital commercial decisions. It would certainly place management 
in a very difficult position so it would be a matter of last resort."
Load-Date: August 19, 2007
End of Document
Government must stand by Aer Lingus
Government must stand by Aer Lingus
Sunday Business Post
August 19, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENT AND ANALYSIS
Length: 464 words
Body
There has been a dangerous loss of perspective in much of the debate on Aer Lingus and Shannon.
The company board and management may deserve some criticism in relation to the way it has handled and the way 
the decision was communicated.
Indeed, it remains to be seen in the long term if, commercially, it is making the right move.
However, it is management's decision to take - and talk of shareholder alliances at the forthcoming extraordinary 
general meeting seeking to overturn a management decision have raised things to a dangerous level.
Be in no doubt: if the Aer Lingus board and management were forced to reverse the Shannon decision, then they 
would have no alternative but to resign.
As government ineptitude and bumbling have already led to the departure of one management team at the 
company, losing a second would be more than careless.
The action of 100 Fianna Fail politicians in meeting to call for a reversal of the Aer Lingus decision is 
understandable. All politics is local, after all.
Fortunately, so far the government is saying that, while it regrets the decision, it is a commercial matter for the 
company.
That one senior minister, Willie O'Dea, has adopted a different position is a sign of how Irish politicians often try to 
have the best of both worlds.
The priority for those running the airport must now be find replacement flights from Shannon to Heathrow and - to 
provide insurance for the future - to another hub such as Paris.
Government must stand by Aer Lingus
This is a challenge for the airport authorities, which may also face a fall-off in transatlantic traffic as the stopover is 
gradually wound down and which is also heavily reliant on the uncertain income stream from US military flights.
The airport authorities have done a good job in attracting Ryanair to provide new routes, but the Aer Lingus 
decision puts the pressure onto diversify and attract other carriers. If the market is there for the Heathrow routes, 
surely someone will provide them.
Ryanair's decision to call an extraordinary general meeting has now put the government in a difficult position. 
Further boardroom turmoil at the airline is now a distinct possibility, unless the government stands squarely behind 
the management and board.
The employees, through their shareholder trust, are also in a key position. Surely, Aer Lingus has experienced 
more than enough turbulence over the last decade.
If it comes to a vote at the extraordinary general meeting, the government must support the company's 
management.
A vote against, or a decision to abstain, is a vote to replace the current management and board - it's as simple as 
that. It is also a vote to undermine the investment plan for Belfast.
The government may have a political difficulty in backing the management, but the price of not doing so could be 
very high indeed.
Load-Date: August 19, 2007
End of Document
Hot air over Shannon move
Hot air over Shannon move
Sunday Business Post
August 19, 2007
Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: LETTERS
Length: 588 words
Body
What is the point of Minister for Defence Willie O'Dea, Fianna Fail and Fine Gael TDs and Ibec whingeing about the 
short-sighted Aer Lingus decision to end its Shannon-Heathrow connection?
They must have known what could happen when they supported the privatisation of our national carrier. After all, 
they had the lessons of Eircom and West Link, where vital infrastructure was exploited for maximum profits at the 
expense of taxpayers and consumers.
Ironically, before the election, O'Dea claimed that Sinn Fein in government would set the economy back. Now, 
wages and economic growth are lagging behind inflation, unemployment is rising and capital is flowing out of the 
state - often, as in the case of Aer Lingus, Bank of Ireland and O'Briens, to the north, where Sinn Fein is in 
government.
To prevent employers from dividing and ruling workers north and south in future, we need not just an all-Ireland 
economy for capital, but also all-Ireland harmonisation of wages, conditions and taxation. National agreements 
need to be truly national!
Dr Sean Marlow
Willow Park Road
Dublin 11
* Aer Lingus vacating Shannon should not surprise balanced realistic observers. Shannon is a dinosaur with a 
greedy appetite for taxpayers' funds.
Over the years, it has done major damage to Irish business and tourism. Through political manipulation it got 
special treatment. The Shannon Free Airport Development Company (SFADCo) epitomises the Shannon 
syndrome.
Hot air over Shannon move
It has been an embarrassing thorn in the side of Bord Failte and the IDA over the years. It has been like a cuckoo 
greedily eyeing where it can get an advantage at others' expense. Shannon has employed tactics of obstructing 
other regions when a threat was sensed.
A culture of government subsidy lay at the heart of all Shannon strategy. As far back as the 1970s, Shannon 
poached existing tourist traffic from Cork Airport. Kinsale-bound tourists were bussed from Shannon. Who paid for 
the buses? Were any tears shed for jobs at Cork then?
The new Shannon Airport Authority opted to give an unprecedented deal to Ryanair to entice it to establish new 
routes. The same company gave an unprecedented generous redundancy deal to its staff and even extended 
benefits to staff that were not being made redundant.
Siptu et al will have that deal as their bible in all future redundancy negotiations with state bodies. Shannon did all 
this while it was losing money. Who pays?
In the meantime, management cares not a whit that it is damaging Cork, Knock, Kerry and Galway - with taxpayers' 
money.
It galls me to hear the clamour of whingeing and indignity about people with mortgages and families to support. 
Who cried for Cork staff when they endured cutbacks 20 years ago? The Mayor of Shannon had the audacity to 
suggest taking a Heathrow service from Cork and giving it to Shannon. At least, he was upfront about it.
It's time Shannon was brought into the real commercial world and compelled to play on a level playing pitch. Aer 
Lingus is overstaffed at Shannon and many bad practices have endured because of political patronage. Bad 
practices come home to roost sooner or later.
It's not that many years ago since the media exposed the greed of local suppliers who were overcharging Aer 
Lingus and there was no outcry from the Shannon region about that.
Shannon portrays itself as the gateway to the west of Ireland. It should redesignate itself the gateway to the 
bottomless begging bowl. The west can be served by Kerry, Galway, Knock, Sligo, Donegal and Derry airports.
Thomas J Furlong
Cork
Load-Date: August 19, 2007
End of Document
UK AND IRELAND : Ryanair lifts Aer Lingus holding NEWS DIGEST
UK AND IRELAND: Ryanair lifts Aer Lingus holding NEWS DIGEST
Financial Times (London, England)
August 18, 2007 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES: UK AND IRELAND; Pg. 17
Length: 165 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE
Body
Ryanair has raised its stake in Aer Lingus, making it the biggest shareholder ahead of the Irish government.
Europe's leading budget carrier is prohibited from making another full bid after the decision by European 
competition authorities in June to block an offer made last year.
Ryanair is understood to have raised its stake from the 25 per cent built last year to at least 28 per cent, taking 
advantage of a recent fall in the share price. Neelie Kroes, European competition commissioner, said at the time a 
combination of the two carriers would have led to a near-monopoly in the Irish market. However, she ruled out any 
move to force the low-cost airline to divest its stake. Ryanair is expected to file an appeal shortly against the 
competition decision to the European Court of First Instance. TX.- It is understood to be considering further 
purchases, which could take it up to the maximum 29.9 per cent level allowed before a full takeover bid would 
normally be triggered.
Kevin Done
Load-Date: August 20, 2007
End of Document
Madrid shares flat midday in thin trade as main banks rebound; blue chips mixed
Madrid shares flat midday in thin trade as main banks rebound; blue chips 
mixed
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 17, 2007 Friday 11:27 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 241 words
Body
Madrid shares were flat in thin midday trade with the main banks on a rebound, while other heavyweights were 
mixed and builders fell across the board.
At 12.00 pm, the IBEX-35 index rose 14.50 points to 13,994.20.
Equities opened lower but quickly turned higher after a late US surge yesterday, but modest gains were eroded 
over the morning as continuing volatility on credit concerns weighed.
Main banks rose on a rebound, with BBVA putting on 0.17 eur to 16.70, and Santander adding 0.14 to 13.15.
Other heavyweights were mixed, with Telefonica slipping 0.05 to 17.12, while Repsol YPF rose 0.08 to 26.09.
Iberia dropped 0.07 or 2.23 pct to 3.07 after low-cost carrier Ryanair announced plans yesterday to open four new 
European routes from Madrid.
Separately, BNP Paribas cut its stance on the Spanish flagship to 'underperform' from 'neutral', with a new target 
price of 2.80 eur from 3.60. It noted that potential buyer TPG may use the current credit concerns to its advantage, 
offering a bid much lower than the 3.60 indicative bid tabled earlier this year.
Gamesa reversed yesterday's sharp losses to gain 0.42 to 26.65.
Among defensives, selective utilities slumped after outperforming yesterday, with Union Fenosa dropping 0.47 to 
37.28, Gas Natural slipping 0.60 to 37.76 and Iberdrola losing 0.56 to 38.40.
Inditex slipped 1.65 to 40.65, extending recent weakness in the wake of lower than expected July sales growth at 
peer H&M earlier this week.
Load-Date: August 17, 2007
End of Document
Northwest Airlines could eventually own Midwest after sale to TPG
Northwest Airlines could eventually own Midwest after sale to TPG
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 17, 2007 Friday 6:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 536 words
Byline: By EMILY FREDRIX, AP Business Writer
Dateline: MILWAUKEE 
Body
Northwest Airlines Corp. could end up owning rival Midwest Air Group Inc., which has agreed to sell to private 
equity firm TPG Capital.
Northwest is a passive investor in the deal and may eventually buy Midwest outright, TPG partner Richard P. 
Schifter said in a conference call Friday morning.
The equity firm may eventually want to cash out of the deal, he said, and Minneapolis-based Northwest could be 
the sole owner. But Schifter cautioned that could be several years out.
Midwest's decision to sell to TPG came late Thursday night and ended months of back-and-forth with another rival, 
AirTran Holdings Inc.
Midwest said TPG will pay $17 per share cash, which values the deal at $450 million based on Midwest's 26.6 
million shares outstanding.
Orlando, Fla.-based AirTran's hostile takeover attempt of Midwest stretched back two years to an initial bid of $78 
million in June 2005.
Its last offer, a cash-and-stock deal, was worth about $16.04 a share, or $427 million.
AirTran Chairman and CEO Joe Leonard said Friday in a statement that he had hoped to reach a consensual 
agreement with Midwest but added, "we accept the Midwest board's decision."
AirTran shares rose 28 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $10.25 in afternoon trading Friday while Midwest shares rose 84 
cents, or 5.7 percent, to $15.54. Northwest shares slipped 11 cents to $15.87.
Northwest approached TPG about joining in a buyout of Midwest, Schifter said.
"We concluded there was a combination that would make sense and began in earnest frankly just a few weeks 
ago," he said.
Northwest Airlines could eventually own Midwest after sale to TPG
Northwest is a passive minority investor in the deal, said Schifter, who would not disclose the airline's level of 
involvement. Northwest spokesman Darren Shannon declined to comment.
The deal is subject to antitrust approval. Midwest chairman and chief executive Timothy E. Hoeksema has said the 
company worked with lawyers to ensure it would pass. He said they would begin discussions with federal officials in 
the next two weeks.
Northwest has said it would not participate in Midwest's management should the TPG deal go through.
Northwest accounts for about 18 percent of the traffic at Milwaukee's Mitchell International Airport and is the 
second-largest carrier behind Midwest. More than half of the flights leaving from Milwaukee are Midwest.
TPG Capital, formerly Texas Pacific Group, has invested in other airlines, including Continental, America West and 
Ryanair. Schifter said it would have many options if it eventually wanted to sell its stake in Midwest, including selling 
it back into the public market.
The firm typically holds investments for several years so a deal, including a sale to Northwest, would most likely be 
years in the making, Schifter said. It took more than 11 years for TPG to sell its stake in America West, he said.
"It frankly will depend upon circumstances somewhat beyond our control in how the airline performs and how the 
industry evolves," Schifter said.
Hoeksema said Midwest was pleased with the transaction but did not comment specifically on Northwest's 
involvement.
"I think our shareholder base feels this is a very good outcome and that we worked diligently to pick the offer that 
had the best value and the most certainty," Hoeksema said.
Load-Date: August 22, 2007
End of Document
Midwest Air Group rejects AirTran one last time, accepts TPG Capital offer of $17 per share
Midwest Air Group rejects AirTran one last time, accepts TPG Capital offer of 
$17 per share
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 17, 2007 Friday 5:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 688 words
Byline: By EMILY FREDRIX, AP Business Writer
Dateline: MILWAUKEE 
Body
After months of back-and-forth battling over AirTran's effort to acquire Midwest Air Group Inc., Midwest has spurned 
AirTran one last time by formally deciding to sell to private investment firm TPG Capital for $450 million.
Midwest said late Thursday that TPG will pay $17 per share, beating out AirTran Holdings Inc.'s offer that had been 
raised several times.
The latest upgrade came earlier in the week, after the board of Milwaukee-based Midwest decided to go with a $16-
per-share all-cash deal from TPG Capital, which includes Northwest Airlines Corp. as a passive partner. The parties 
expected to formalize the agreement Wednesday.
Instead, the board delayed action to consider a new cash-and-stock offer that Orlando, Fla.-based AirTran made 
after the market closed Tuesday. The board met Thursday afternoon and announced it voted unanimously for 
TPG's sweetened offer.
Midwest Chairman and Chief Executive Timothy E. Hoeksema called the deal "a significant milestone" for the airline 
company.
"The agreement preserves the airline's status as Milwaukee's hometown airline and the popular Midwest Airlines 
brand," he said.
AirTran had been fighting for two years to take over Midwest and had planned to integrate Midwest's operations 
under the AirTran name. Its offer Tuesday was worth $16.25 a share in cash and stock, or about $445 million, when 
it was made.
The deal offered Midwest shareholders $10 in cash and 0.6056 of a share of AirTran stock for each Midwest share, 
so its value depended on the price of AirTran shares, which rose 14 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $9.97 Thursday. That 
made the offer worth about $16.04 a share, or $427 million based on the 26.6 million shares Midwest said are 
outstanding.
Midwest Air Group rejects AirTran one last time, accepts TPG Capital offer of $17 per share
Midwest shares were unchanged Thursday, closing at $14.70.
AirTran Chairman and CEO Joe Leonard said acquiring Midwest would have created "a unique, efficient, truly 
national low-cost carrier."
"We hoped the Midwest board would come to share our vision and reach a consensual agreement," Leonard said in 
a statement after Midwest announced its agreement with TPG.
TPG Capital, formerly Texas Pacific Group, has invested in other airlines, including Continental, America West and 
Ryanair.
TPG partner Richard P. Schifter said TPG looks forward to working with Midwest personnel "in driving growth and 
creating more value."
"We hope that our industry experience, together with an expanded alliance with Northwest Airlines, will lead to a 
bigger and better Midwest," he said.
It was not clear how big a stake Northwest has in the deal. The Eagan, Minn.-based airline has said it would not 
participate in Midwest's management should the TPG deal go through. It was not clear whether any airline 
operations would be combined.
Northwest accounts for about 18 percent of the traffic at Milwaukee's Mitchell International Airport and is the 
second-largest carrier behind Midwest. More than half of the flights leaving from Milwaukee are Midwest.
Midwest had pledged to remain independent as AirTran pursued a very public takeover. The operator of low-cost 
AirTran Airways had raised its offer several times, starting with $78 million in June 2005. All the while, Midwest said 
it preferred to fly alone and saw more value in that.
But Midwest's board last month set up a committee to start considering a sale.
Midwest's shareholders had been pressuring for a deal with AirTran. More than half of the company's shareholders 
had agreed to tender their shares to AirTran if a deal went through, and Midwest shareholders tossed out three 
board members and replaced them with a slate nominated by AirTran at their meeting in June.
In his statement, Leonard noted that Midwest shareholders recognized the value in AirTran's strategic plan, but he 
accepted Midwest's decision and said AirTran will continue its focus on growth.
"We pursued a deal vigorously, and for the right reasons," Leonard said. "But AirTran doesn't need to merge with 
any other carrier to achieve our business goals. "
Associated Press Writer James Carlson in Milwaukee contributed to this report.
On the Net:
Midwest: http://www.midwestairlines.com
AirTran: http://www.airtran.com
Load-Date: August 22, 2007
End of Document
Northwest Airlines could eventually own Midwest which is being acquired by TPG Capital
Northwest Airlines could eventually own Midwest which is being acquired by 
TPG Capital
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 17, 2007 Friday 8:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 764 words
Byline: By EMILY FREDRIX, AP Business Writer
Dateline: MILWAUKEE 
Body
Northwest Airlines Corp. could end up owning rival Midwest Air Group Inc., which has agreed to a $450 million 
buyout offer from private equity firm TPG Capital.
Northwest is a passive investor in the deal and may eventually buy Midwest outright, TPG partner Richard P. 
Schifter said in a conference call Friday morning.
The equity firm may want to cash out of the deal some day, he said, and Minneapolis-based Northwest could 
become the sole owner. Schifter said such a move could be several years away.
Midwest's decision to sell to TPG came late Thursday night and ended months of back-and-forth with another rival, 
AirTran Holdings Inc.
Midwest said TPG will pay $17 per share cash, worth about $450 million based on Midwest's 26.6 million shares 
outstanding.
Orlando, Fla.-based AirTran's hostile takeover attempt of Midwest stretched back two years to an initial bid of $78 
million in June 2005.
Its last offer, a cash-and-stock deal, was worth about $16.04 a share, or $427 million.
AirTran Chairman and CEO Joe Leonard said Friday in a statement that he had hoped to reach a consensual 
agreement with Midwest but added, "we accept the Midwest board's decision."
AirTran shares rose 22 cents, or 2.2 percent, to close at $10.19 on Friday, while Midwest shares ended up 85 
cents, or 5.8 percent, at $15.55 after rising to a 52-week high of $16 earlier in trading. Northwest shares rose 18 
cents to $16.16.
Northwest approached TPG about joining in a buyout of Midwest, Schifter said.
Northwest Airlines could eventually own Midwest which is being acquired by TPG Capital
"We concluded there was a combination that would make sense and began in earnest frankly just a few weeks 
ago," he said.
Northwest is a minority investor in the deal, said Schifter, who would not disclose the airline's level of involvement. 
Northwest spokesman Darren Shannon declined to comment.
The deal is subject to antitrust approval. Midwest Chairman and Chief Executive Timothy E. Hoeksema has said the 
company worked with lawyers to ensure it would pass. He said they would begin discussions with federal officials in 
the next two weeks.
Northwest has said it would not participate in Midwest's management should the TPG deal go through.
Northwest accounts for about 18 percent of the traffic at Milwaukee's Mitchell International Airport and is the 
second-largest carrier behind Midwest. More than half of the flights leaving from Milwaukee are Midwest.
TPG Capital, formerly Texas Pacific Group, has invested in other airlines, including Continental, America West and 
Ryanair. Schifter said it would have many options if it eventually wanted to sell its stake in Midwest, including selling 
it back into the public market.
The firm typically holds investments for several years so a deal, including a sale to Northwest, would most likely be 
years in the making, Schifter said. It took more than 11 years for TPG to sell its stake in America West, he said.
"It frankly will depend upon circumstances somewhat beyond our control in how the airline performs and how the 
industry evolves," Schifter said.
Hoeksema said Midwest was pleased with the transaction but did not comment specifically on Northwest's 
involvement.
"I think our shareholder base feels this is a very good outcome and that we worked diligently to pick the offer that 
had the best value and the most certainty," said Hoeksema, who expects the deal to close in the fourth quarter.
It will need shareholder and regulatory approval, both of which are likely but not certain, Robert W. Baird analyst 
Craig Kennison wrote in an investors note Friday.
Some people who own both AirTran and Midwest stock may vote against the transaction "to rekindle merger 
discussions," he wrote.
But breakup fees, such as the $13.5 million Midwest would have to pay to terminate the deal, could discourage 
opposition, he said.
Regulators also could be concerned about Northwest's involvement, although Kennison doubted they would block 
the deal.
"We believe the political will is behind an independent Midwest, which boosts the odds of approval," he wrote.
Midwest had pledged to remain independent, and TPG deal will allow it to keep its own name and management. 
AirTran had said it would merge Midwest under the AirTran name.
Hoeksema and Schifter said Midwest and Northwest could combine some purchases, such as fuel, to save money.
Richard Hurowitz, chief executive of one of Midwest's largest shareholders, Octavian Advisors, said he was glad of 
the outcome and TPG's involvement.
"They're the most sophisticated airlines investors in the world," he said.
On the Net:
Northwest Airlines could eventually own Midwest which is being acquired by TPG Capital
Midwest: http://www.midwestairlines.com
Northwest: http://www.nwa.com/
AirTran: http://www.airtran.com
Load-Date: August 22, 2007
End of Document
Midwest Air Group accepts TPG Capital offer of $17 per share, rejects AirTran 's bid
Midwest Air Group accepts TPG Capital offer of $17 per share, rejects 
AirTran's bid
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 17, 2007 Friday 5:07 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 705 words
Byline: By EMILY FREDRIX, AP Business Writer
Dateline: MILWAUKEE 
Body
Midwest Air Group Inc. said Thursday night that it will accept a cash offer to be acquired by private investment firm 
TPG Capital, rejecting a revived cash-and-stock offer from AirTran Holdings Inc.
Midwest said TPG will pay $17 per share, which values the deal at $450 million based on Midwest's 26.6 million 
shares outstanding.
The announcement ends months of back-and-forth battling over Orlando, Fla.-based AirTran's attempted hostile 
takeover of Milwaukee-based Midwest.
AirTran had raised its offer several times only to be spurned by Midwest's board.
The latest upgrade came earlier in the week, after Midwest's board decided to go with a $16-per-share all-cash deal 
from TPG Capital, which includes Northwest Airlines Corp. as a passive partner. The parties expected to formalize 
the agreement Wednesday.
Instead, the board delayed action to consider a new cash-and-stock offer that AirTran made after the market closed 
Tuesday. The board met Thursday afternoon and announced it voted unanimously for TPG's sweetened offer.
Midwest Chairman and Chief Executive Timothy E. Hoeksema called the deal "a significant milestone" for the airline 
company.
"The agreement preserves the airline's status as Milwaukee's hometown airline and the popular Midwest Airlines 
brand," he said.
AirTran had been fighting for two years to take over Midwest and had planned to integrate Midwest's operations 
under the AirTran name. Its offer Tuesday was worth $16.25 a share in cash and stock, or about $445 million, when 
it was made.
Midwest Air Group accepts TPG Capital offer of $17 per share, rejects AirTran 's bid
The deal offered Midwest shareholders $10 in cash and 0.6056 of a share of AirTran stock for each Midwest share, 
so its value depended on the price of AirTran shares. Those shares rose 14 cents, or 1.4 percent, to close at $9.97 
Thursday, making the offer worth about $16.04 a share, or $427 million.
Midwest shares were unchanged Thursday, closing at $14.70.
AirTran Chairman and CEO Joe Leonard said acquiring Midwest would have created "a unique, efficient, truly 
national low-cost carrier."
"We hoped the Midwest board would come to share our vision and reach a consensual agreement," Leonard said in 
a statement after Midwest announced its agreement with TPG.
TPG Capital, formerly Texas Pacific Group, has invested in other airlines, including Continental, America West and 
Ryanair.
TPG partner Richard P. Schifter said TPG looks forward to working with Midwest personnel "in driving growth and 
creating more value."
"We hope that our industry experience, together with an expanded alliance with Northwest Airlines, will lead to a 
bigger and better Midwest," he said.
It was not clear how big a stake Northwest has in the deal. The Eagan, Minn.-based airline has said it would not 
participate in Midwest's management should the TPG deal go through. It was not clear whether any airline 
operations would be combined.
Northwest accounts for about 18 percent of the traffic at Milwaukee's Mitchell International Airport and is the 
second-largest carrier behind Midwest. More than half of the flights leaving from Milwaukee are Midwest.
Midwest had pledged to remain independent as AirTran pursued a very public takeover. The operator of low-cost 
AirTran Airways had raised its offer several times, starting with $78 million in June 2005. All the while, Midwest said 
it preferred to fly alone and saw more value in that.
But Midwest's board last month set up a committee to start considering a sale.
Midwest's shareholders had been pressuring for a deal with AirTran. More than half of the company's shareholders 
had agreed to tender their shares to AirTran if a deal went through, and Midwest shareholders tossed out three 
board members and replaced them with a slate nominated by AirTran at their meeting in June.
In his statement, Leonard noted that Midwest shareholders recognized the value in AirTran's strategic plan, but he 
accepted Midwest's decision and said AirTran will continue its focus on growth.
"We pursued a deal vigorously, and for the right reasons," Leonard said. "But AirTran doesn't need to merge with 
any other carrier to achieve our business goals. "
Associated Press Writer James Carlson in Milwaukee contributed to this report.
On the Net:
Midwest: http://www.midwestairlines.com
AirTran: http://www.airtran.com
Load-Date: August 22, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ reverses early drop to finish ahead
ISEQ reverses early drop to finish ahead
Business World (Digest) 
August 17, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 508 words
Highlight: The Dublin market ended a volatile session 49 points higher today.
Body
Financial shares rebounded today as the Dublin market ended a volatile session in positive territory for the first time 
since Monday.
The opening hours saw the ISEQ index soar by more than 1pc before investor jitters came back to send Irish 
shares plummeting by more than 2pc and below the psychologically important 8,000 level.
The news that the Federal Reserve had slashed its discount rate by of a half percentage point sent shares sharply 
higher in early afternoon trading. However, those gains failed to stick with the ISEQ slipping back somewhat to end 
the session 49.49 points higher at 8,106.47.
 The index significantly underperformed its European counterparts, with the FTSE 100 index in London jumping by 
more than 200 points and the DAX in Germany climbing 1.5pc. Across the Atlantic, the Dow Jones industrials, after 
six straight days of losses, rose more than 100 points buoyed by the Federal Reserve rate cut. The Fed's step, 
which Wall Street was angling for, gave the market a boost after weeks of losses fuelled by turmoil in the credit 
markets. The central bank has poured billions in additional liquidity into the banking system in recent days - today it 
added USD6 billion - but the rate cut was its most dramatic effort yet to alleviate fears about tightening credit and 
calm the global financial markets. The Fed cut the discount rate to 5.75pc from 6.25pc, declaring that 'downside 
risks' to the economy have increased appreciably. Back in Dublin it was the financials which led the way with AIB 
tacking 3.5pc, or 61c, to 18.57 and Anglo Irish Bank up 50c to 13.95. Bank of Ireland was also in the black, up 14c 
to 13.09, while Irish Life and Permanent ended the day 33c higher at 17.65. Construction shares did not fare so 
well, however, with CRH falling 25c to 30.00 and Grafton down 15c to 9.38. Kingspan dropped 7c to 16,20,while 
McInerney was unchanged at 2.12. Other notable movers included C and C, down 17c to 5.70, after it was 
confirmed that Denver-based investment fund Janus Capital now owns an 8pc stake in the cider maker. Elsewhere, 
Elan was down 32c to at 13.00, while Greencore slipped 11c to 4.52 and ICON slumped 105c to 32.45. Meanwhile, 
Ryanair fell into negative territory amid reports that the airline has bought more shares in rival carrier Aer Lingus. 
ISEQ reverses early drop to finish ahead
Ryanair is believed to have spent E37.6m on Thursday increasing its stake in Aer Lingus to 28pc from 25.2pc. It is 
said to have bought 16 million shares at E2.35 each from an unnamed seller. The purchase would make Ryanair 
the largest shareholder in Aer Lingus, ahead of the Irish Government, which has 25pc, and the employee share 
ownership trust, which own 12.6pc. Ryanair launched a failed bid for Aer Lingus last October, shortly after the Irish 
flag carrier was floated in September, at E2.80 a share, valuing the group at E1.48bn. A Ryanair spokesman would 
not confirm the latest purchase, saying the company never commented on stock market rumours. Shares in Ryanair 
closed 11c lower at 4.95 this evening, while Aer Lingus ended unchanged at 2.40.
Load-Date: August 21, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ tumbles through 8,000 level today
ISEQ tumbles through 8,000 level today
Business World (Digest) 
August 17, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 207 words
Highlight: The respite for leading European shares was short lived this morning with markets falling sharply again.
Body
The respite for leading European shares was short lived this morning with markets falling sharply again - including 
the ISEQ in Dublin which fell below the psychologically important 8,000 level.
Just after 1100, the Dublin market was down 1.2pc, or 97.58 points to 7,959.400.
Shares around Europe had opened marginally higher after a late rally on Wall Street at the end of a volatile session 
yesterday.
 However, sharp falls in Japanese stocks and continued credit market jitters kept investors on edge. The markets 
worldwide have been pummelled in recent weeks by a rapidly spreading credit crisis that began with rising defaults 
in subprime mortgages in the US. With the problems now beginning to spread to other borrowers, economists are 
now beginning to talk for the first time of a possible recession. In Dublin today the financials were mixed with AIB up 
21c to 18.17, Anglo Irish up 18c to 13.63 and Bank of Ireland down 33c to 12.61. Irish Life and Permanent was 17c 
lower at 17.15. Elsewhere, CRH was down 76c to 29.53, while Kingspan was off by 46c at 15.80. Other notable 
movers included Kenmare Resources, down 15pc, or 13c, to 0.73, while Ryanair was down 19c to 4.87 amid 
reports that it has raised its stake in Aer Lingus to 28pc.
Load-Date: August 21, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair increases Aer Lingus stake to 28 pct from 25.2 pct - report
Ryanair increases Aer Lingus stake to 28 pct from 25.2 pct - report
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 17, 2007 Friday 10:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 121 words
Body
Low cost airline Ryanair is believed to have spent 37.6 mln eur yesterday increasing its stake in Aer Lingus to 28 
pct from 25.2 pct, according to the Irish Times.
The airline bought 16 mln shares at 2.35 eur each from an unnamed seller, the newspaper said.
The purchase would make Ryanair the largest shareholder in Aer Lingus, ahead of the Irish Government, which has 
25 pct, and the employee share ownership trust, which own 12.6 pct.
Ryanair launched a failed bid for Aer Lingus last October, shortly after the Irish flag carrier was floated in 
September, at 2.80 eur a share, valuing the group at 1.48 bln eur.
A Ryanair spokesman would not confirm the latest purchase, saying the company never commented on stock 
market rumours.
Load-Date: August 17, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair buys more Aer Lingus shares
Ryanair buys more Aer Lingus shares
Business World (Digest) 
August 17, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 65 words
Highlight: Ryanair is believed to have spent E37.6m yesterday increasing its stake in Aer Lingus to 28pc.
Body
Ryanair is believed to have spent E37.6m yesterday increasing its stake in Aer Lingus to 28pc, a report in the Irish 
Times said.
The no-frills airline bought 16 million shares at E2.35 each from an unnamed seller, it said.
This makes Ryanair the biggest shareholder in Aer Lingus, ahead of the Government, which has a 25pc stake and 
the employee share ownership trust (Esot), which owns 12.6pc.
Load-Date: August 21, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair ups stake in Aer Lingus to 28pc?
Ryanair ups stake in Aer Lingus to 28pc?
Business World (Digest) 
August 17, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 120 words
Highlight: No frills airline Ryanair is believed to have spent E37.6m yesterday increasing its stake in Aer Lingus.
Body
No frills airline Ryanair is believed to have spent E37.6m yesterday increasing its stake in Aer Lingus to 28pc from 
25.2pc, according to the Irish Times.
The newspaper reports this morning that the airline bought 16m shares at E2.35 each from an unnamed seller.
The purchase would make Ryanair the largest shareholder in Aer Lingus, ahead of the Irish Government, which has 
25pc, and the employee share ownership trust, which own 12.6pc.
 Ryanair launched a failed bid for Aer Lingus last October, shortly after the Irish flag carrier was floated in 
September, at E2.80 a share, valuing the group at E1.48bn. A Ryanair spokesman would not confirm the latest 
purchase, saying the company never commented on stock market rumours.
Load-Date: August 21, 2007
End of Document
Black Thursday as ISEQ slumps 4pc
Black Thursday as ISEQ slumps 4pc
Business World (Digest) 
August 16, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 507 words
Highlight: Shares in Dublin slumped by almost 4pc today as markets around Europe took a battering.
Body
Shares in Dublin slumped by almost 4pc today as markets around Europe took a battering following yet more sharp 
falls on Wall Street.
The ISEQ index of Irish shares closed 319.09 points lower at 8,056.98.
Meanwhile, markets in London and Paris were down by more than 2pc, while the DAX in Frankfurt ended the 
session almost 1.5pc lower.
 Across the Atlantic, Wall Street opened sharply lower with the Dow Jones plummeting by more 130 points in the 
opening minutes. Investors continue to back away, as fears over the impact of losses in the US sub-prime lending 
market show no signs of abating. Their confidence, already diminished by months of bad news about mortgages 
and credit, took a further drubbing today after Countrywide, the largest mortgage lender in the US said it was forced 
to draw on an USD11.5 billion credit line to fund operations. This came after the Federal Reserve injected USD17 
billion of liquidity into the banking system to make cash available for lending and keep interest rates from rising. 
Central banks around the world have been supplying billions of funds to banks in the past week in an attempt to 
prevent credit from drying up. Also contributing to the Dow's losses was news that US housing starts fell last month 
to their lowest level since January 1997 and builders' future construction permits were at their lowest level in more 
than 11 years. Analysts warned today that things are not about to get better in the short term with a difficult and 
volatile few weeks ahead. 'Until the extent of the market turmoil is known, there will continue to be a great deal of 
uncertainty,' one broker said. Financial and construction shares bore the brunt of the falls in Dublin today with AIB 
down 59c to 17.95 and Bank of Ireland down 75c to 12.94. Anglo Irish Bank fell 25c to 13.45, while Irish Life and 
Permanent dropped 62c to 17.32. CRH and Kingspan were both hit particularly hard in the construction sector, 
falling 3pc, or 98c, to 30.25, and 5pc, or 76c, to 16.27 respectively. McInerney was off 3c at 2.13, while Grafton 
slipped 26c to 9.53. Housebuilder Abbey fell 40c to 9.25. Other notable fallers included drinks group CandC, down 
11c to 5.87, drug maker Elan, down 57c to 13.32, and Independent News and Media, down 22c to 3.00. Mining 
Black Thursday as ISEQ slumps 4pc
stocks suffered badly, with Kenmare Resources dropping 15pc, or 13c, to 0.73, Petroneft down 14pc, or 8c, to 0.49 
and Petroceltic down 11pc, or 1c, to 0.13. The airlines also nose-dived, with Ryanair down 19c to 5.06 and Aer 
Lingus down 2c to 2.40. Positive movers were few and far between, however, bathroom furnishings firm Qualceram 
Shires nudged up 1c to 1.91, while outsourcing group Newcourt jumped 2c to 1.50 and Donegal Creameries added 
on 25c to end the session at 6.70. Irish Continental Group was unchanged at 25.00 after property developer, Liam 
Carroll, increased his stake in the ferries operator to 18.65pc. A statement to the stock exchange said he had 
bought another 48,700 shares on Tuesday at E25 a share, increasing his interest from 18.2pc to 18.65pc.
Load-Date: August 20, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down 3pc, world markets battered
ISEQ down 3pc, world markets battered
Business World (Digest) 
August 16, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 211 words
Highlight: Shares in Dublin slumped by more than 3pc this morning as markets around Europe took a battering.
Body
Shares in Dublin slumped by more than 3pc this morning as markets around Europe took a battering following 
sharp falls on Wall Street overnight.
Just after 1100, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 273.30 points to 8,102.77.
Meanwhile, the FTSE in London was also down by around 3pc, while Germany's DAX was down by more than 2pc.
 Markets keep falling as uncertainties over the impact of losses in the US sub-prime lending market show no signs 
of abating. Concern about the state of world credit markets saw the Dow Jones index sink below 13,000 last night. 
This prompted a 2pc drop in Japan's Nikkei index and a 3.7pc dip in Hong Kong this morning. Investors continue to 
back away until the state of the sub-prime market in the US becomes clearer. Some estimates say USD300bn in 
loans could be at risk. In Dublin this morning, financial shares bore the brunt of the falls with AIB down 62c to 17.93, 
Bank of Ireland down 65c to 13.05 and Anglo Irish Bank down 28c to 13.42. Irish Life and Permanent was 73c lower 
at 17.21. Other notable movers included CRH, down 98c to 30.25, DCC, down 86c to 20.82, FBD Holdings, down 
89c to 25.66, Dragon Oil, down 8pc, or 28c, to 2.88. Newcourt was down 10c to 2.88, while C and C fell 12c to 5.87 
and Ryanair slipped 16c to 5.10.
Load-Date: August 20, 2007
End of Document
Alliance calls for Shannon resolution
Alliance calls for Shannon resolution
Business World (Digest) 
August 16, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 292 words
Highlight: Atlantic Connectivity Alliance calls for resolution to Shannon issue.
Body
The Atlantic Connectivity Alliance today welcomed the statement by Minister Willie O' Dea that the Shannon 
Heathrow slots decision by Aer Lingus should be rescinded immediately and not wait for an EGM to force it through.
"This issue is a matter of great urgency that needs to be acted on immediately. We are already aware of the major 
negative impact this is having on the economy of the western seaboard," said Ken Sullivan, vice chairman, Atlantic 
Connectivity Alliance.
"Over E100 million in new tourism investment alone has been put on hold as a result of the Aer Lingus' decision 
and the uncertainty is having a negative impact day by day on business.
 "While we welcome and support the Ryanair initiative and would be grateful for any solution to this problem, in the 
interests of business across the West, Midwest and Midlands, all of which are impacted, we need an immediate 
solution and cannot wait up to two months for an EGM to overturn this." Mr. Sullivan also welcomed the 
overwhelming mandate from FF representatives from the region at last night's meeting that Government must 
deliver on this. "We also welcome the growing momentum building within FF at grass root, back bench and now 
cabinet level for the Atlantic Connectivity Alliance effort's to have this decision rescinded by Aer Lingus," said Ken 
Sullivan vice chairman, Atlantic Connectivity Alliance. "This is a vital piece of national infrastructure that is 
enshrined in national policy. Strong regions make for a strong national economy and therefore this is an issue that 
has implications for the entire country. The Atlantic Connectivity Alliance will, in the meantime, continue with our 
vigorous campaign to ensure an immediate resolution of this critical issue is delivered." 
Load-Date: August 20, 2007
Alliance calls for Shannon resolution
End of Document
Thursday Papers: HBOS cools on Quintain - bid news and gossip
Thursday Papers: HBOS cools on Quintain - bid news and gossip
Citywire
August 16, 2007 Thursday 6:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 321 words
Body
HBOS cools on Quintain, Charlton hoists for sale sign and Blackstone has its eyes on New Look.
* HBOS' Quill Securities has no current intention of making an offer for Quintain Estates * Pearl Group could hold 
talks with insurers that might be willing to take on the parts of Resolution that still write policies if it decides to bid * 
Sony pressing ahead with a planned £1.3 million listing of its financial unit in spite of concerns about market turmoil 
* Charlton Athletic hires Seymour Pierce to advise it on funding options, including a possible share issue or sale - 
Telegraph * Blackstone has its eyes on New Look - Mail * Reuters has signed a £500 million global outsourcing 
deal with Fujitsu * Private equity eyes Esporta as owner Simon Halabi faces £150 million losses * BBC puts Elstree 
Studios up for sale * Vision Capital, private equity owner of Thresher off-licence chain, to buy oil services group 
JDR Cable for over £90 million * Li Q Fung of China is paying £48.1 million in cash for Peter Black International * 
Sefton Resources agrees $10 million line of credit to increase production at Tapia * Ariel receives Financial 
Services Authority and Lloyd's approval for purchase of Atrium * Ryanair invests $140 million in two new aircraft for 
new Dublin flights * FKI unit awarded $123 million baggage system contract for Qatar airport * Southernera 
Diamonds needs more time to consider Mwana Africa offer * Royal London and Royal Liver end discussions to 
combine societies * World Trade Systems has not received proposals from potential investors * Sainsbury investor 
warns shareholders Delta deal could drag on * Vedanta Resources sells 84.2% stake in Sterlite Gold for $0.38-a-
share * Water Hall raises stake in Premier Asset Management to 6% * Shire to invest $50 million for 6.5% shares in 
Renova; now has exclusive rights to Juvista drug * MP Evans sells 828.6 hectares Malaysian estate for £10.25 
million cash
Load-Date: August 21, 2007
End of Document
Madrid shares TFN at a glance outlook
Madrid shares TFN at a glance outlook
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 15, 2007 Wednesday 7:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 209 words
Body
Shares are expected to open lower, extending yesterday's losses and after another day of sell-offs in US markets, 
while trade in Spain will be quiet with many traders out for a national holiday.
Yesterday, the IBEX-35 index closed down 178.7 points at 14,553.1 after trading in a range of 14,519-14,733.
FORTHCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
-Public holiday, financial markets open
TOMORROW
-Nothing scheduled
TODAY'S PRESS
-Colonial's Riofisa to face partial audit for alleged tax evasion (El Economista)
-Ryanair to suspend flights to Spain's Vitoria from Dublin, London in October (La Gaceta de los Negocios, El 
Economista)
LATE CORPORATE NEWS
-Prisa ruling family agrees not to reduce holding for 10 years
-EU inquiry deadline for Santander buy of ABN Amro assets Sept 19
-Leonardo Capital Fund holds 1.2 pct of La Seda - bourse
MARKET SENTIMENT
-The broad market is expected to open lower, extending yesterday's losses and following another strong downward 
turn on Wall Street.
Madrid shares TFN at a glance outlook
Trade will be quiet in Spanish markets with many traders out due to the national holiday of Assumption of the 
Blessed Virgin Mary.
-Iberia will continue to be in focus after another volatile session yesterday amid speculation surrounding a possible 
bid from a consortium led by TPG and British Airways.
Load-Date: August 15, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to add 1m passengers from Dub
Ryanair to add 1m passengers from Dub
Business World (Digest) 
August 15, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 215 words
Highlight: Ryanair today said it is to expand its services from Dublin with capacity for an additional one million 
passengers.
Body
Ryanair today said it is to expand its services from Dublin with capacity for an additional one million passengers.
The no-frills airline said it plans to spend an extra USD140m on its Dublin services and will base two new aircraft at 
Dublin from November of this year - making a total of 22 Dublin based aircraft.
It said it will launch six new European routes and increase frequencies on a further 12 routes to the UK and Europe.
 It said the expansion will sustain an additional 1,000 new jobs in North Dublin and will bring Ryanair's total number 
of routes served year round from Dublin to 81. The new routes will include Budapest, Nice, Prague and Basel as 
well as Poland. "The events of this past week confirm that Aer Lingus cannot be trusted or relied upon to secure 
access to/from the Republic of Ireland on key routes to the UK and Europe. Ryanair's new routes will end Aer 
Lingus's high fare monopoly on these routes and means that Irish passengers and visitors will no longer have to 
suffer E200 and E300 air fares from Dublin to Basel, Budapest, Nice and Prague. Our new routes to Katowice and 
Szczecin will provide new gateways and links between Ireland and Poland which have enjoyed such enormous 
customer support in recent years," according to Ryanair's Deputy CEO, Michael Cawley.
Load-Date: August 17, 2007
End of Document
UK AND IRELAND : Ryanair seeks Aer Lingus EGM
UK AND IRELAND: Ryanair seeks Aer Lingus EGM
Financial Times (London, England)
August 15, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES: UK AND IRELAND; Pg. 16
Length: 333 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE
Body
Ryanair has waded into the increasing controversy surrounding the development of Aer Lingus, its smaller rival, by 
calling for an extraordinary meeting of Aer Lingus shareholders.
The call was calculated to embarrass the Irish government and trades unions.
Ryanair was thwarted in an attempt last year to acquire Aer Lingus after fierce opposition from the government, 
unions and staff. But it has retained a 25.2 per cent stake, almost matching the Irish state's holding.
The budget carrier wants a shareholder meeting to challenge Aer Lingus's decision to end services between 
Shannon in the west of Ireland and Heathrow.
The Ryanair move comes at a sensitive moment for Aer Lingus. It is already facing a two-day strike by 480 pilots 
next week in protest at pay and conditions proposed for a new base atBelfast International airport.
Ryanair's demand also places the Irish government and unions in a difficult position. The government holds a 25.4 
per cent stake in the former state-owned carrier. Unions and employees own about 16.7 per cent.
The government faces increasing pressure, in particular from business interests in the west of Ireland and trades 
unions, to reverse Aer Lingus's decision to end the Shannon-Heathrow service.
Aer Lingus plans instead to use the Heathrow slots to launch a Belfast service.
Ryanair has been a fierce critic of the Irish government's aviation policy and fought stubbornly to avoid union 
representation of its workforce.
But yesterday Michael O'Leary, Ryanair chief executive, offered to ally with the government and unions to oppose 
Aer Lingus.
The airline said: "If Bertie Ahern (Irish prime minister) fails to support this motion, then the extent to which his 
government has lied and abandoned Shannon in favour of Belfast will become apparent to all."
UK AND IRELAND : Ryanair seeks Aer Lingus EGM
Ryanair said if the Aer Lingus decision was not reversed, it would introduce three extra daily flights between 
Shannon and London. Aer Lingus, accused pilots of "self-centred brinkmanship" in announcing the strike.
Load-Date: August 14, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to suspend flights from Spain 's Vitoria to Dublin, London in October
Ryanair to suspend flights from Spain's Vitoria to Dublin, London in October
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 15, 2007 Wednesday 7:14 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 60 words
Body
Low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings PLC will suspend its flights from Spain's Vitoria to London and Dublin in October, 
El Economista reported, citing the airline's director in Spain, Caitryona Weggan.
The suspension comes as part of a reorganisation of the airline's routes in Europe and due to lower-than-average 
demand at the Foronda airport, the newspaper said.
Load-Date: August 15, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair invests 140 mln usd in 2 new Boeing aircraft for new Dublin flights
Ryanair invests 140 mln usd in 2 new Boeing aircraft for new Dublin flights
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 15, 2007 Wednesday 3:24 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 55 words
Body
Low-cost carrier Ryanair Holdings PLC said it will invest 140 mln stg to base two new Boeing 737-800 aircraft at 
Dublin from November, in order to launch six new European routes and to increase frequencies on a further twelve 
routes to the UK and Europe.
The initiative will deliver an extra 1 mln passengers annually, Ryanair said.
Load-Date: August 15, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to suspend Vitoria-Dublin route
Ryanair to suspend Vitoria-Dublin route
Business World (Digest) 
August 15, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 61 words
Highlight: Ryanair is to suspend flights from Vitoria to London and Dublin in October.
Body
Irish no frills airline Ryanair is to suspend flights from Vitoria to London and Dublin in October, according to 
newspaper reports this morning.
El Economista reports, citing the airline's director in Spain, Caitryona Weggan, that the suspension is part of a 
reorganisation of the airline's routes in Europe and due to lower-than-average demand at the Foronda airport.
Load-Date: August 17, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair calls for Aer Lingus EGM, offers to replace Aer Lingus London flights
Ryanair calls for Aer Lingus EGM, offers to replace Aer Lingus London 
flights
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 14, 2007 Tuesday 12:21 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 298 words
Body
Low-cost airline Ryanair Holdings PLC has offered to provide three additional flights between Shannon and London 
if Aer Lingus PLC proceeds with its plan to close the Shannon-Heathrow route.
In the event that Aer Lingus sticks to its decision Ryanair today said it would provide three additional daily flights to 
London to ensure Shannon Airport's capacity and traffic does not fall as a result of this Aer Lingus closure. Ryanair 
said it would be willing to launch a fourth daily flight to London Stansted, a second daily flight to London Gatwick 
and a daily flight to London Luton if Aer Lingus pulls its London services from Shannon.
Ryanair also said it had yesterday written to Aer Lingus requesting that an EGM be called, 'to allow Aer Lingus 
shareholders the opportunity to exercise their statutory right to consider requesting the Board and Management of 
Aer Lingus to reverse the Shannon closure decision and maintain Aer Lingus's 4 daily flights between Shannon and 
Heathrow.'
Ryanair also said it would be willing to vote its 25 pct shareholding in favour of the motion to retain Aer Lingus's 
existing Shannon-Heathrow services.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive said in a statement: 'Aer Lingus's rules confirm that any 10 pct 
shareholder can ask for an EGM to be called. It is surprising that neither the government nor the trade unions, both 
of whom own over 10 pct, have taken up Ryanair's previous offer to work together or called for an EGM to be held.
'Accordingly and in the interests of retaining a profitable route for the benefit of all Aer Lingus shareholders, Ryanair 
has asked Aer Lingus to call an EGM and we will be asking the trade unions and Bertie Ahern's government to 
support this motion calling for Shannon's daily flights to Heathrow to be maintained.'
Load-Date: August 14, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair calls for A Lingus Shannon EGM
Ryanair calls for A Lingus Shannon EGM
Business World (Digest) 
August 14, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 329 words
Highlight: Ryanair called for an EGM of Aer Lingus on the airline's decision to cut its Shannon to Heathrow routes.
Body
Ryanair today called for an emergency general meeting (EGM) of Aer Lingus to consider the airline's decision to cut 
its Shannon to Heathrow routes.
Ryanir, which still holds a 25pc share in Aer Lingus, said the EGM should be called to reverse the Shannon closure 
decision and maintain Aer Lingus's four daily flights between Shannon and Heathrow.
Ryanair confirmed that - if so requested by the Government - it would be willing to vote its 25pc shareholding in 
favour of the motion to retain Aer Lingus's existing profitable Shannon-Heathrow services.
 Alternatively the Government could ask Ryanair to abstain from voting, which would give the Government and the 
ESOT a majority at the EGM and allow them to save Shannon's Heathrow services. On its own, Ryanair's 25pc 
stake would be insufficient to influence this decision. "Aer Lingus have confirmed that its Shannon-Heathrow route 
is profitable and Ryanair believes that by reducing its costs in Shannon Aer Lingus's profits can be further increased 
in the interests of all Aer Lingus shareholders," Ryanair said. Ryanair suggested that Aer Lingus consider using the 
recently announced 4 daily Dublin-Gatwick flights as a suitable alternative for its new Belfast base. This would allow 
Aer Lingus to operate Aldergrove Belfast - London Gatwick 4 times daily, while retaining Shannon-Heathrow 4 
times daily services. Alternatively Aer Lingus could operate four daily flights from Belfast to Heathrow using two of 
Aer Lingus's existing Heathrow slots which are currently used for flights to Dublin and Cork, as well as the two 
Heathrow slots which are leased out to other airlines, it said. Ryanair also announced that it will provide three 
additional daily flights to its London bases to ensure Shannon Airport's capacity and traffic does not fall as a result 
of this Aer Lingus closure. The new flights include a fourth daily flight to London Stansted; a second daily flight to 
London Gatwick and a daily flight to London Luton.
Load-Date: August 17, 2007
Ryanair calls for A Lingus Shannon EGM
End of Document
Dublin market flat in mid-morning trade
Dublin market flat in mid-morning trade
Business World (Digest) 
August 14, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 173 words
Highlight: The Dublin fought back from sharp early session falls to remain virtually unchanged this morning.
Body
The Dublin fought back from sharp early session falls to remain virtually unchanged this morning.
Having slumped by more than 100 points in the opening minutes, the ISEQ index rallied to sit 1.51 points higher at 
8,515.010 by 1100.
Shares opened lower on the back of a negative close on Wall Street overnight as investors got nervous again about 
the state of the US subprime market.
 Financial shares were mainly lower in Dublin this morning, with AIB down 20c at 19.00, Bank of Ireland down 18c 
at 13.70 and Irish Life and Permanent down 1c at 18.20. Anglo Irish Bank managed to edge up 24c to 14.09. 
Construction shares were a tad more positive after building materials group Grafton posted strong first half profits. 
Shares in the group soared by 4pc, or 41c, to 9.90. Elsewhere in the sector, Kingspan was up 2c at 17.35, while 
McInerney was unchanged at 2.17. CRH bucked the trend, slipping 8c to 31.92. Other notable movers this morning 
included AGI Therapeutics, up 4c to 1.60, Ryanair, up 8c to 5.29, and Qualceram Shires, up 8c to 1.90.
Load-Date: August 17, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ rebounds 2pc, banks lead the way
ISEQ rebounds 2pc, banks lead the way
Business World (Digest) 
August 13, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 516 words
Highlight: Irish shares rebounded by more than 2pc today after suffering huge losses last week.
Body
Irish shares rebounded by more than 2pc today after suffering huge losses last week, with financial stocks leading 
the way.
Shares around the world bounced back today after the Federal Reserve and other central banks added more cash 
to their banking systems, helping investors set aside some concerns about credit tightness.
However, analysts warned that volatility is likely to remain a feature of trading in the coming days as investors 
continue to assess the repercussions of the crumbling US subprime mortgage market on the outlook for economic 
growth.
 "We still don't know what's left to come out of the cupboard," one analyst said. "There is still uncertainty there and 
markets don't thrive on uncertainty." Over the last three days, the European Central Bank has pumped in E202bn 
and the Federal Reserve has injected USD64bn into the money markets. The Bank of Japan, the Reserve Bank of 
Australia and the Bank of Canada have also injected funds. These moves increased liquidity in the markets both in 
Europe and the US today, with major indices in London, Frankfurt, Paris and Amsterdam all closing sharply higher. 
Stocks on Wall Street also opened in the black. In Dublin today, the ISEQ index of Irish shares closed 166.78 points 
higher at 8,513.50. Banks made the most progress with Irish Life and Permanent 91c to 18.21 and AIB adding on 
80c to end the session at 19.20. Bank of Ireland moved up 48c to 13.88, while Anglo Irish bank tacked on 45c to 
13.85. Shares in the construction sector also put in a largely positive performance with CRH up an impressive 90c 
to 32.00, Kingspan up 4c to 17.33 and McInerney up 6c to 2.18. Grafton bucked the trend, slipping 2c to 9.49. 
Elsewhere, paper and packaging group Smurfit Kappa was up 51c to 16.31, while bookmaker Paddy Power 
climbed 73c to 23.50. Meanwhile, Independent News and Media was 16c higher at 3.28 after it was confirmed that 
the Australian publisher it owns a 50pc stake in is to outsource its editorial production work. IN and M's Irish 
newspapers are taking up the same editorial outsourcing strategy. Elan was also notable higher, up 16c to 14.26, 
while Aer Lingus was up 3c to 2.45 despite the continuing bad press surrounding its decision to switch flights from 
ISEQ rebounds 2pc, banks lead the way
Shannon to Belfast. The market was not without its fallers, however, with no frills airline Ryanair slumping 7c to 5.21 
and business support services group DCC slipping 20c to 21.90. Elsewhere, Trinity Biotech was down 15c to 1.85, 
while IAWS fell 10c to 15.03. Printing company Oakhill started life under its new name - Prime Active Capital - in 
sluggish fashion, with shares in the firm dropping 10c to 1.65. The name change is part of a top-down revamp of the 
company which is now led by former Eircom finance director, Peter Lynch. The new strategy involves developing 
the former specialist printing company as an 'acquisition and development vehicle'. The firm says this will mean 
investing in underperfoming assets in areas such as telecoms, financial services, digital media and property. It 
added that its initial targets will be in Ireland and the UK.
Load-Date: August 16, 2007
End of Document
UK AND IRELAND: Aer Lingus goes for peace dividend
UK AND IRELAND: Aer Lingus goes for peace dividend
Financial Times (London, England)
August 13, 2007 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES: UK AND IRELAND; Pg. 18
Length: 542 words
Byline: By JOHN MURRAY BROWN
Body
The recent decision by Aer Lingus to end its Shannon to Heathrow service and make Belfast its first non-Republic 
hub has triggered what some observers believe will be one of many commercial squabbles over the spoils of peace 
in Northern Ireland.
Efforts to foster an all- island economy - one of the aims of the peace process - have already met roadblocks in the 
energy area.
Viridian, the former Northern Ireland electricity company taken private last year by Arcapita, a Gulf-based 
investment company, has more than once complained at the market dominance of the Electricity Supply Board, the 
Republic of Ireland's state-owned power utility.
The Irish government has pledged about Euros 400m (Pounds 271m) to build roads and other infrastructure in 
Northern Ireland, in support of the peace process.
Northern politicians are looking to see if there is any favouritism shown to southern companies when Dublin comes 
to award those contracts.
However, the airline's decision, announced last Wednesday, is the most significant economic endorsement of the 
political changes that have taken place, with the end of paramilitary violence and the setting up of a new power-
sharing administration.
Belfast International Airport at Aldegrove was chosen ahead of Birmingham.
The announcement is an early sign the newly-privatised airline company is ready to ignore local political fall-out 
when taking decisions it considers in its commercial interest.
Ian Paisley, the hardline protestant politician who heads the four-party executive at Stormont as first minister 
alongside Martin McGuinness, a former IRA commander, hailed the decision by Aer Lingus as "a shining example 
of howcompetitive our economy is becoming".
UK AND IRELAND: Aer Lingus goes for peace dividend
Reaction south of the border was in sharp contrast with local politicians, trade union leaders and Michael O'Leary, 
chief executive of Ryanair, who last year mounted an unsuccessful takeover bid for Aer Lingus, all criticising the 
Irish government for failing to protect the Shannon service.
Aer Lingus conducted a successful initial public offering last year, with the Dublin government retaining a 25 per 
cent stake.
At the time of the IPO, Brian Cowen, finance minister, justified the continued government shareholding as a way of 
protecting landing slots that Aer Lingus owned at Heathrow and which government officials in Dublin long 
considered essential props for Ireland's trade effort.
Under the Belfast deal just announced, Aer Lingus is ending its Shannon to Heathrow service and using the slots 
instead for a newBelfast route.
This will be the first time Belfast International Airport has had a service to Heathrow since BA pulled out in 2001.
BA's move was in direct response to the impact of the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York and 
Washington, although many observers believed BA had long been looking for a pretext to shut down what for it was 
a lossmaking route.
Philip O'Sullivan, economist with Goodbody stockbrokers in Dublin, is confident Aer Lingus will not suffer the same 
fate.
"With the changed political situation in Northern Ireland, Aer Lingus is in a good position to make a Belfast route 
pay. With the growing congestion at Dublin airport, many travellers will now choose Belfast to make international 
flights," he forecast.
Load-Date: August 12, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair adds Rugby World Cup flights
Ryanair adds Rugby World Cup flights
Business World (Digest) 
August 13, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 59 words
Highlight: Ryanair will operate extra services for the Rugby World Cup.
Body
No- frills airline Ryanair today said it will operate extra services from both England and Ireland for the Rugby World 
Cup. 
The airline will launch special flights from London to Paris for England's Rugby World Cup match against South 
Africa, as well as extra flights to Paris from both Dublin and Shannon for Ireland's matches against France and 
Argentina
Load-Date: August 16, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ up 2pc, financials lead the way
ISEQ up 2pc, financials lead the way
Business World (Digest) 
August 13, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 133 words
Highlight: The Dublin market bounced back by almost 2pc this morning.
Body
The Dublin market bounced back by almost 2pc this morning as the fears of investors eased after last week's panic 
selloff.
Just after 1000, the ISEQ index was up 157.77 points to 8,504.49.
Investors were boosted by a rebound on Wall St on Friday and the intervention of central banks around the world to 
shore up financial markets.
 Financial shares led the way early in the session today, with AIB up 24c to 18.64, Bank of Ireland up 25c to 13.66 
and Anglo Irish Bank 25c to 13.65. Irish Life and Permanent was 80c higher at 18.10. Construction shares also 
made positive strides with CRH up 95c to 32.05 and Kingspan up 21c to 17.50. Grafton edged up 11c to 9.63, while 
McInerney was 4c higher at 2.16. Other notable movers included Elan, up 75c to 14.85, INM, up 11c to 3.23, and 
Ryanair, up 5c to 5.33.
Load-Date: August 15, 2007
End of Document
Watchdog targets hidden costs of budget airline tickets
Watchdog targets hidden costs of budget airline tickets
Financial Times (London, England)
August 11, 2007 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 5
Length: 411 words
Byline: By CHRIS BRYANT and MICHAEL PEEL
Body
Budget airlines face acrackdown in the UK over potentially misleading ticket pricing, in an attempt bycompetition 
watchdogs to stop them advertisingflights for pennies whenthe true cost is many pounds.
The Office of Fair Trading has ordered 13 airlines - including Ryanair, AerLingus and easyJet -to change their 
adver-tisement and websiteprices to include fixed,non-optional costs, such as taxes.
The action by the OFT is the latest stage of a six-month campaign to make airlines reveal the true cost of tickets.
The Air Transport Users Council, a passenger watchdog group, welcomed the clampdown, but said it should have 
come much sooner.
"We actually tried to get the OFT to do some work on this three years ago," James Fremantle, AUC industry affairs 
manager, said. "At the time they said they couldn't do anything - it was perfectly legal."
The OFT said on Thursday that 11 of the 13 airlines it targeted had already changed their websites, while Aer 
Lingus and Ryan-air had altered their homepages and pledged to update website booking processes later.
In the interim period, Ryanair had agreed to place a clear statement on its website to inform consumers how much 
the taxes and charges would add to the final price.
Sean Williams, OFT executive director, said the organisation was committed to ensure travellers were not misled by 
advertised prices that bore little relation to actual charges.
"Misleading pricing not only undermines consumer confidence but also distorts competition and we will enforce the 
law enthusiastically where we find that consumers have been misled," he said.
The OFT first announced its clampdown in February, when it quoted theexample of a flightfrom Britain to Barcelona 
that was advertised at Pounds 19.99 but cost more than double that once all fixed -non-optional costs were 
included.
Watchdog targets hidden costs of budget airline tickets
Passenger groups say many travellers assume fees and charges are the same on all airlines.
Many even think all except government-imposed taxes are variable.
EasyJet welcomed the OFT's action, and claimed it had long called for industry-wide all-inclusive pricing.
"We didn't move independently as it would have disadvantaged us," a spokesperson said. "We're glad everyone is 
on a level playing field now."
But it seems that someairline industry habits die hard even in the era of transparency heralded by the OFT.
Aer Lingus said it would complete an overhaul of its website by the end of September - but a would apply the OFT 
ruling only to bookings in the UK.
Load-Date: August 10, 2007
End of Document
UK competition watchdog to investigate customer service, security at airports operator BAA
UK competition watchdog to investigate customer service, security at 
airports operator BAA
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 9, 2007 Thursday 1:54 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 568 words
Byline: By JANE WARDELL, AP Business Writer
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
Britain's competition watchdog said Thursday that an investigation into the market domination of airports operator 
BAA PLC will consider levels of customer service and security.
The Competition Commission said it has already collected extensive evidence from a wide range of parties and was 
aware of concerns about the operation of airports including Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted in London.
However, the commission said it maintained an open mind at this stage about its findings and any possible 
remedies. It has the power to order BAA to sell off one or more of the seven airports it operates around Britain, 
including Edinburgh and Glasgow in Scotland.
The government ordered the Competition Commission to begin investigating BAA, owned by Spain's Grupo 
Ferrovial SA, in March after scores of complaints from airlines and consumers and calls from airlines for the group 
to be broken up.
Referring the inquiry to the commission, the government's Office of Fair Trading said it believed the London airports 
may serve consumers better under separate ownership BAA's airports currently handle around 90 percent of 
passenger flights made in southeast England and 63 percent of all flights to and from Britain.
The Competition Commission noted that complaints included the delays experienced by passengers getting through 
security, overcrowding, poor signage and low standards of cleanliness.
It said it would look at how common ownership might affect incentives to improve levels of service and security at 
BAA's airports. It added that it would also assess the impact of regulatory restrictions on airport development and 
constraints on capacity in terms of runways, terminals and other facilities.
BAA was heavily criticized for its response to last summer's terrorist alert, when tighter security controls led to long 
delays at Heathrow, Europe's busiest airport, and Gatwick.
UK competition watchdog to investigate customer service, security at airports operator BAA
Heathrow particularly is subject to persistent delays because it is operating close to capacity a new fifth terminal 
that will help ease congestion is still a year away from completion.
London Mayor Ken Livingstone last week called Heathrow a "shame" on London.
"It's quite clear the current management, and management before them, thought they could keep people almost as 
prisoner in this ghastly shopping mall so they can extract vast sums of money from them while they wait in appalling 
conditions," he said.
Budget airline Ryanair Holdings PLC and British Airways PLC, itself under fire for long delays and lost baggage of 
passengers traveling through Heathrow, repeated their calls Thursday for a break-up of BAA.
BA Chief Executive Willie Walsh said that common ownership was the "root cause of the failure to expand 
Heathrow's runway capacity."
"There is huge unsatisfied demand for extra runway capacity at Heathrow from customers and airlines and less 
demand at Stansted," he said. "At both airports, as long as environmental conditions are respected, new runway 
developments should be market-led not left to a common owner's interests to dictate timescales."
Jim Callaghan, Ryanair's head of regulatory affairs, agreed that common ownership was damaging airport 
development, and called on the Competition Commission to expedite its inquiry.
The commission said it would collect more information in the next few months, before publishing a consultation 
document early next year. It plans to release its final report around August 2008.
Load-Date: August 10, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down 2pc in-line with world markets
ISEQ down 2pc in-line with world markets
Business World (Digest) 
August 9, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 484 words
Highlight: The Dublin market slumped sharply today in line with other major bourses worldwide.
Body
The Dublin market slumped sharply today in line with other major bourses worldwide after one of Europe's largest 
banks said it had frozen three of its investment funds.
France's BNP Paribas, said it had taken the action because of volatility in the US asset-backed securities market. 
The idea that anyone - institutions, investors, companies, individuals - can't get money when they need it unnerved 
stock markets that have suffered through weeks of intense volatility triggered by concerns about available credit.
 A move by the European Central Bank to provide more cash to money markets intensified Wall Street's angst - 
although the bank's loan of more than USD130 billion in overnight funds to banks at a bargain rate of 4pc was 
intended to calm investors, Wall Street saw the step as confirmation of the credit markets' problems. The Federal 
Reserve followed suit, adding USD12 billion to U.S. markets to help ease liquidity constraints, according to Dow 
Jones. The news sent markets around Europe tumbling. Britain's FTSE 100 and Germany's DAX index both fell by 
more than 1pc, while France's CAC-40 slumped by as much as 3pc. Markets in the US were also sharply lower. In 
Dublin, the ISEQ index fell by more than 3pc, however, a late rally saw it close just over 2pc, or 192.87 points, lower 
at 8,701.130. Unsurprisingly, financial shares bore the brunt of the falls. AIB was down 77c to 19.57, while Bank of 
Ireland was 51c lower at 14.16 and Anglo Irish Bank was down 31c at 14.09. Insurance shares also fell sharply, 
with FBD Holdings slumping 50c to 27.75 and Irish Life and Permanent down 34c to 18.26. Construction equities 
fared little better. CRH was a notable faller 1pc, or 42c, to 33.02, while Grafton was off by 3pc, or 32c, to 9.81 and 
Kingspan was down 15c to 18.00. McInerney dropped 3c to 2.19. Other notable movers included Donegal 
Creameries, down 25c to 6.45, Paddy Power, down 57c to 24.52, and Ryanair, down 6c to 5.53. The no-frills airline 
today announced two new bases in Alicante and Valencia in Spain. The carrier said it will invest a total of E140m in 
each of the two new bases. Meanwhile, Trinity Venture Capital was down 7c to 1.40, while Siteserv lost 4c to close 
at 0.58. Elsewhere, Aer Lingus fell 2c to 2.50 after it posted a rise in passenger numbers, but crucially, a drop in the 
number of seats filled on its aircraft during the month of July. Davy said the figures had came in "as expected". Elan 
ISEQ down 2pc in-line with world markets
was one of few positives on the board, jumping an impressive 6pc, or 82c, to 14.65 after it last week received an 
unexpected boost when an FDA advisory panel recommended that its lead drug Tysabri be approved to treat 
Crohn's disease. In a positive 12-3 vote (with two abstaining), the advisory committee recommended that the FDA 
approve the use of Tysabri as a treatment for Crohn's disease sufferers who aren't responding to other therapies 
like steroid treatment.
Load-Date: August 13, 2007
End of Document
Call for Gov to act over Aer Lingus move
Call for Gov to act over Aer Lingus move
Business World (Digest) 
August 9, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 267 words
Highlight: Opposition is growing to Aer Lingus' plan to end its service between Shannon and Heathrow.
Body
Opposition is growing to Aer Lingus' plan to end its service between Shannon and Heathrow.
Both Ryanair chief executive, Michael O'Leary, and the Mayor of Shannon, Councillor Sean McLoughlin, have 
called on the Government to intervene and make Aer Lingus reverse its decision. 
Councillor McLoughlin slammed the move by Aer Lingus as "nonsensical", while Mr O'Leary called on the 
Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern, to interrupt his holidays and explain why the Government has not honoured its promises 
that the Heathrow link would be maintained.
 Meanwhile, it was confirmed today that millions of euro in tourism investment could also be lost. The owner of the 
Doonbeg golf course says the Aer Lingus decision means that they have stalled plans to invest E50m into the 
facility. Management at Dromoland Castle also warned that they too will defer a planned E25m expansion. Top 
regional executives have warned that the loss of the Heathrow links will have huge implications for industry and 
tourism in the region. Business, tourism and community leaders from throughout the mid-west region are due to 
hold an emergency meeting tomorrow to discuss the situation. SIPTU's western regional secretary Joe 
Cunningham is to attend the meeting, which will be convened by Shannon Development. The group's will attempt to 
build a broad based coalition to deal with the threat posed by Aer Lingus management plans to withdraw from the 
region. "We have 30,000 members in the Shannon airport catchment area and it is just not acceptable for the 
Government to walk away from a problem that was ultimately of its own making", he said.
Load-Date: August 13, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to set up base in Valencia, Spain
Ryanair to set up base in Valencia, Spain
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 9, 2007 Thursday 12:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 70 words
Body
Low fares airline Ryanair Holdings PLC said it is setting up a base in Valencia, Spain, with two Boeing 737-800s, 
representing a 140 mln usd investment, serving 11 new routes from November.
The airline said the new routes would give it around 1.5 mln extra passengers per year.
Ryanair already operates 10 routes from Valencia to Brussels, Dublin,
Dusseldorf, East Midlands, Frankfurt, London, Milan, Pisa, Rome and Stockholm.
Load-Date: August 9, 2007
End of Document
Heathrow snubbed as BAA traffic swells
Heathrow snubbed as BAA traffic swells
Financial Times (London, England)
August 9, 2007 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 362 words
Byline: By BOB SHERWOOD
Body
BAA, the much-criticised airports operator, experienced its busiest ever-month in July, handling 15.1mpassengers 
at its seven UK airports.
However, even though holidaymakers swelled BAA's monthly figures, the number of passengers using Heathrow 
fell again, dropping by 1.7 per cent compared with the same month last year.
The figures show a trend of passengers switching away from Heathrow as they seek to avoid the delays caused by 
strict security rules and cramped conditions. More than 66.8m passengers used Heathrow in the year from August 
2006 to July 2007, a fall of 1.6 per cent.
BAA, which is majority owned by Ferrovial, the Spanish construction and infrastructure group, said Heathrow was, 
in effect, running at full capacity and so passenger figures would not rise until capacity was increased. But 
restrictions allowing only one piece of hand luggage were also having an effect.
It added: "We have seen some people choosing 'to hub' through other European airports because of the one-bag 
rule."
Jim Fitzpatrick, the aviation minister, told the FT this week that the one-bag rule could be lifted by November should 
a trial at Heathrow prove successful.
Heathrow's reputation has suffered following high-profile criticism from business leaders and politicians. Michael 
Ryan, the chief executive of Ryanair, also recently criticised the "third-rate service" at Stansted.
The record passenger traffic comes after falls in total passenger numbers in June and April and only a marginal rise 
in May, which had been seen as lending weight to fears that rising interest rates and increases in air passenger 
duty had slowed demand for air travel.
Passenger numbers were up 1.8 per cent at Gatwick and 2.2 per cent at Stansted, following an increase in the 
number of routes available from both airports.
Heathrow snubbed as BAA traffic swells
Aberdeen and Edinburgh recorded gains of 10.6 per cent and 6.3 per cent. But 6.4 per cent fewer passengers used 
Glasgow airport, where there was a terrorist attack at the end of June.
The Competition Commission is expected to announce the scope of its investigation into BAA today, with areas 
under examination including its near-monopoly in London and the regulatory framework.
Load-Date: August 8, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to set up 21st base in Alicante , Spain
Ryanair to set up 21st base in Alicante, Spain
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 9, 2007 Thursday 10:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 113 words
Body
Low fares airline Ryanair Holdings said it is setting up a base in Alicante, Spain, with two Boeing 737-800s, 
representing a 140 mln usd investment, serving 11 new routes from November.
The airline already operates six routes from Alicante, to Dublin, Duesseldorf, Liverpool, London, Pisa, and 
Stockholm, so this base -- the company's 21st -- will launch with a total of 17 routes.
New routes will link the Spanish city with Baden Baden, Basel, Billund, Bournemouth, Brussels, Doncaster, East 
Midlands, Gothenburg, Maastricht, Milan and Paris.
'Today's new base announcement will treble passenger numbers to 1.5 mln annually, sustaining 1,500 local jobs,' 
said CEO Michael O'Leary.
Load-Date: August 9, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair announces two new Spanish bases
Ryanair announces two new Spanish bases
Business World (Digest) 
August 9, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 87 words
Highlight: No-frills airline Ryanair today announced its 21st base in Alicante.
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair today announced two new bases in Alicante and Valencia, Spain. 
From November, the airline says it will invest USD140m in 2 Boeing 737-800s to serve 11 new routes from Alicante.
Ryanair already operates 6 routes from Alicante, to Dublin, Dusseldorf, Liverpool, London, Pisa, and Stockholm, so 
this base will launch with a total of 17 routes. 
 Meanwhile, the airline says it will invest USD140m in 2 new Boeing 737-800s based in Valencia and 11 new routes 
that will deliver a total of 1.5m passengers p.a
Load-Date: August 13, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair CEO criticizes decision to reduce traffic at Rome's low-cost hub
Ryanair CEO criticizes decision to reduce traffic at Rome's low-cost hub
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 8, 2007 Wednesday 3:30 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 329 words
Dateline: ROME 
Body
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary on Wednesday criticized a plan to reduce and eventually phase out 
commercial traffic at Rome's low-cost hub Ciampino, saying the measures are designed to protect Italy's struggling 
Alitalia flagship carrier.
O'Leary said Ryanair was seeking an injunction from a regional court to prevent authorities from cutting traffic into 
Ciampino by 30 percent by November. Ryanair also has submitted a complaint to the European Commission.
"This latest unlawful attempt by the Italian authorities to restrict capacity and block low fares at Rome Ciampino 
airport is bad for Italian consumers and visitors," O'Leary told a news conference.
"If Ryanair and the other low fare airlines using Rome Ciampino are removed unlawfully ... Italian consumers and 
visitors will be forced to pay Alitalia's rapaciously high fares and fuel surcharges while tourism in Rome will suffer 
irreparable damage."
A spokesman for Rome's airports declined to comment on Ryanair's action. Residents living near Ciampino sought 
to have flights limited, complaining about noise from the aircraft.
Ryanair has made similar complaints to the EC in the past, accusing France of offering illegal subsidies to Air 
France's base airports and Germany of running up losses at the state-owned Munich airport on a terminal built for 
Lufthansa.
O'Leary ruled out any interest on the part of Ryanair in the failing Italian carrier, saying "Alitalia is a mess." Attempts 
by the government to auction off its shares in the airline have failed and so far no clear strategy for resolving its 
financial woes has emerged.
O'Leary also raised questions about plans to close Ciampino for five months next year to work on runways, saying 
there is no evidence of any problems with the runways. After that, he said, officials intend to close the airport to 
commercial flights, but have provided no explanation.
Ciampino, Rome's second airport after Leonardo da Vinci, has become the capital's low-cost hub.
Ryanair CEO criticizes decision to reduce traffic at Rome's low-cost hub
Load-Date: August 9, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair CEO criticizes decision to reduce traffic at Rome's low-cost hub
Ryanair CEO criticizes decision to reduce traffic at Rome's low-cost hub
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 8, 2007 Wednesday 3:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 329 words
Dateline: ROME 
Body
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary on Wednesday criticized a plan to reduce and eventually phase out 
commercial traffic at Rome's low-cost hub Ciampino, saying the measures are designed to protect Italy's struggling 
Alitalia flagship carrier.
O'Leary said Ryanair was seeking an injunction from a regional court to prevent authorities from cutting traffic into 
Ciampino by 30 percent by November. Ryanair also has submitted a complaint to the European Commission.
"This latest unlawful attempt by the Italian authorities to restrict capacity and block low fares at Rome Ciampino 
airport is bad for Italian consumers and visitors," O'Leary told a news conference.
"If Ryanair and the other low fare airlines using Rome Ciampino are removed unlawfully ... Italian consumers and 
visitors will be forced to pay Alitalia's rapaciously high fares and fuel surcharges while tourism in Rome will suffer 
irreparable damage."
A spokesman for Rome's airports declined to comment on Ryanair's action. Residents living near Ciampino sought 
to have flights limited, complaining about noise from the aircraft.
Ryanair has made similar complaints to the EC in the past, accusing France of offering illegal subsidies to Air 
France's base airports and Germany of running up losses at the state-owned Munich airport on a terminal built for 
Lufthansa.
O'Leary ruled out any interest on the part of Ryanair in the failing Italian carrier, saying "Alitalia is a mess." Attempts 
by the government to auction off its shares in the airline have failed and so far no clear strategy for resolving its 
financial woes has emerged.
O'Leary also raised questions about plans to close Ciampino for five months next year to work on runways, saying 
there is no evidence of any problems with the runways. After that, he said, officials intend to close the airport to 
commercial flights, but have provided no explanation.
Ciampino, Rome's second airport after Leonardo da Vinci, has become the capital's low-cost hub.
Ryanair CEO criticizes decision to reduce traffic at Rome's low-cost hub
Load-Date: August 9, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to challenge Ciampino, Rome airport flight cuts in court
Ryanair to challenge Ciampino, Rome airport flight cuts in court
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 8, 2007 Wednesday 1:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 229 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC is to challenge in the Italian courts a requirement to move flights from Rome's Ciampino 
airport, effective from the winter season, said Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary.
In July, the Italian authorities decided to cut total daily flights out of Ciampino to 100, from 138, in a move they said 
was aimed at cutting noise and pollution for local residents.
O'Leary said the move was 'the latest illegal attempt to block low-cost carriers and competition', and aimed at 
supporting Alitalia SpA.
If the Ciampino move goes ahead, Ryanair will have to cut about 12 pct of its flights, or about 66 a week, he said.
In July, transport minister Alessandro Bianchi said the move would affect about one mln Ryanair passengers, and 
suggested the low-cost airline should move to Rome's main Fiumicino airport.
O'Leary reiterated that Ryanair does not intend to move flights to Fiumicino and threatened to take the airline's 
activities away from Rome.
However, O'Leary said he would consider an alternative airport, such as nearby Viterbo, Frosinone and Latina, if 
they materialise.
Previously, Ryanair officials have said these airports don't have suitable runways for Ryanair aircraft.
O'Leary said that in addition to the Italian court complaint, Ryanair is appealing the Ciampino decision to the 
European Commission, 'asking immediately for it to intervene in favour of consumers'.
Load-Date: August 8, 2007
End of Document
German regulators approve Air Berlin's takeover of charter airline LTU
German regulators approve Air Berlin's takeover of charter airline LTU
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 8, 2007 Wednesday 7:46 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 298 words
Byline: By DAVID RISING, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: BERLIN 
Body
Discount carrier Air Berlin PLC's takeover of German charter airline LTU has been approved by German federal 
regulators, the company said Wednesday.
The acquisition of Duesseldorf-based LTU makes Air Berlin the fourth-largest airline in terms of European traffic 
behind Ryanair Holdings PLC, Air France-KLM and Lufthansa AG, the Air Berlin said.
Air Berlin bought LTU for €140 million (US$193.12 million) in March, and agreed to assume €200 million 
(US$275.88 million) of LTU's debt.
Air Berlin Chief Executive Joachim Hunold said he regretted it took so long for Germany's Federal Cartel Office to 
make its decision, saying it made it impossible to take advantage of possible cost savings during the summer flying 
season.
"We finally got the strategic decision that we hoped for," he said in a statement. "Nevertheless, it is regrettable that 
this process took so long. Synergies could not be exploited."
LTU has 27 planes and employs some 2,800 people. It reported 2006 sales of €1.06 million (US$1.46 million) and 
carried 5.7 million passengers.
In originally announcing the sale, Air Berlin said LTU would give it the long-haul capabilities that its customers have 
been demanding. The airline plans on operating LTU as an independent Air Berlin company.
Air Berlin hopes to be able to make cost savings of between €70 million (US$96.56 million) and €100 million 
(US$137.94 million) annually with the acquisition, though Hunold said those figures could change with the current 
labor strife at LTU.
The airline pilots' union said Monday that it would organize strikes LTU after 96 percent of its members agreed on 
more walkouts. LTU pilots staged a two-hour warning strike earlier that day.
LTU pilots want a 6 percent pay raise, twice what the company has offered.
German regulators approve Air Berlin's takeover of charter airline LTU
On the Net:
http://www.airberlin.com
Load-Date: August 9, 2007
End of Document
German regulators approve Air Berlin's takeover of charter airline LTU
German regulators approve Air Berlin's takeover of charter airline LTU
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 8, 2007 Wednesday 3:22 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 294 words
Byline: By DAVID RISING, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: BERLIN 
Body
Discount carrier Air Berlin PLC's takeover of German charter airline LTU has been approved by German federal 
regulators, the company said Wednesday.
The acquisition of Duesseldorf-based LTU makes Air Berlin the fourth-largest airline in terms of European traffic 
behind Ryanair Holdings PLC, Air France-KLM and Lufthansa AG, Air Berlin said.
Air Berlin bought LTU for 140 million euros ($193.12 million) in March, and agreed to assume 200 million euros 
($275.88 million) of LTU's debt.
Air Berlin Chief Executive Joachim Hunold said he regretted it took so long for Germany's Federal Cartel Office to 
make its decision, saying it made it impossible to take advantage of possible cost savings during the summer flying 
season.
"We finally got the strategic decision that we hoped for," he said in a statement. "Nevertheless, it is regrettable that 
this process took so long. Synergies could not be exploited."
LTU has 27 planes and employs some 2,800 people. It reported 2006 sales of 1.06 million euros ($1.46 million) and 
carried 5.7 million passengers.
In originally announcing the sale, Air Berlin said LTU would give it the long-haul capabilities that its customers have 
been demanding. The airline plans on operating LTU as an independent Air Berlin company.
Air Berlin hopes to be able to make cost savings of between 70 million euros ($96.56 million) and 100 million euros 
($137.94 million) annually with the acquisition, though Hunold said those figures could change with the current labor 
strife at LTU.
The airline pilots' union said Monday it would organize strikes at LTU after 96 percent of its members agreed on 
more walkouts. LTU pilots staged a two-hour warning strike earlier that day.
LTU pilots want a 6 percent pay raise, twice what the company has offered.
German regulators approve Air Berlin's takeover of charter airline LTU
Load-Date: August 9, 2007
End of Document
Irish shares close more than 3pc higher
Irish shares close more than 3pc higher
Business World (Digest) 
August 8, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 495 words
Highlight: The Dublin market soared by more than 3pc today on the back of sharp gains on Wall Street.
Body
The Dublin market soared by more than 3pc today on the back of sharp gains on Wall Street, with financial and 
construction shares leading the way.
Sharp gains on Wall Street for the second consecutive session gave investors a reason to buy back into the stock 
market.
US stocks have moved sharply higher in recent days after the Federal Reserve said that the US economy should 
keep growing moderately despite an increasingly difficult credit environment.
 The positive news emanating from the United States has helped lift leading shares around Europe, with the DAX in 
Germany and the FTSE 100 in London both closing more than 1pc higher last night. The ISEQ index trumped them 
all, however, with gains of or 270.92 points leaving it at a near two-week high of 8,894.00. The level of trading was 
fairly heavy for this time of year with around 35 million shares changing hands. Banks led the charge, with AIB 
climbing 70c to 20.34, Bank of Ireland up 51c to 14.67 and Irish Life and Permanent up 35c to 18.75. Anglo Irish 
Bank was up 62c to 14.45. Construction shares put in a similar performance with CRH the biggest mover, up 129c 
to 33.10. Elsewhere in the sector Kingspan was up 80c to 18.45, while Grafton jumped 30c to 12.15. McInerney 
bucked the positive trend, slipping 1c to 2.23. Aer Lingus continued to trade strongly after it earlier this week 
announced the opening of its first base outside of the Republic of Ireland in Belfast. Shares in the former state 
airline closed 5c higher at 2.52 last night. Ryanair was also in the black, up 18c to 5.56, after it ruled out making a 
bid for Italian airline Alitalia. That was the no-frills carrier's highest close in almost three months. Irish Continental 
Group edged higher following confirmation this week that property developer Liam Carroll has built up a 17.64pc 
stake in the ferries operator. The news intensified speculation that the developer will launch a takeover bid to rival 
the two already on the table from Aella and Moonduster. Shares ended today's session 48c higher at 24.98. Other 
notable movers included bookmaker Paddy Power, up 12c to 25.09, cement maker Readymix, up 2c to 2.22, Trinity 
Venture Capital, up 3c to 1.47, and Kerry Group, up 14c to 20.11. Drug maker Elan added on 41c to 13.81, while 
Irish shares close more than 3pc higher
recruitment group CPL Resources ended the day 21c higher at 7.10. CandC also finished the session in positive 
territory, up 2c to 6.45, despite one of its biggest rivals in the UK - Scottish and Newcastle (SandN) - this week 
announcing a 24.7pc rise in cider sales in Britain during the first half of 2007. Last week, CandC issued its second 
profit warning in three weeks, blaming the recent wet weather in the UK and Ireland and growing competition in the 
UK from SandN. The new was not all positive, however, with shares in Veris and Siteserv both falling sharply, down 
7pc, or 24c, to 3.25 and 6pc, or 4c, to 0.62 respectively. Fyffes also slipped 3c to 0.77, while Greencore slumped 
13c to 4.87.
Load-Date: August 10, 2007
End of Document
Virgin's US take-off LEX COLUMN
Virgin's US take-off LEX COLUMN
Financial Times (London, England)
August 8, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 16
Length: 316 words
Body
Well, at least it had time to prepare for take-off. Virgin America's entry to the domestic airline industry has suffered 
interminable delays at the hands of regulators. With today's inaugural flight, the hard part is just beginning, though.
America's industry has a history of booms, followed by severe busts. Yet, delays notwithstanding, Virgin has timed 
its entry well. Virtually all full-cost US operators have been cutting domestic capacity. Moreover, Virgin is not trying 
to compete on price alone. Others, such as Skybus Airlines, are experimenting with a Ryanair-style model of ultra-
low fares, charging for extras, and encouraging passengers to bring a book. Whether Americans will take to that in 
the same way as Europeans is an open question. Virgin, meanwhile, is essentially launching an updated version of 
the original JetBlue model: a cool, lower-cost alternative boasting high-quality in-flight service.
The challenge will be building customer loyalty. Appealing beyond Virgin's young, metropolitan demographic could 
prove tricky. Virgin is kicking off with routes that speak to that constituency, linking cities such as New York and Los 
Angeles to its San Francisco hub. But those are hotly contested. It is also uncertain how many business travellers 
might fill seats when tourists go back to work.
For all that, Virgin will increase competitive pressure in the low-cost arena. Unlike the major networks, this 
subsector is adding new aircraft. With no faster-growing international operations to offset any weakening of US 
consumer appetite, price-cutting is an obvious competitive lever to pull. And none can escape the nefarious effects 
of America's creaking air traffic control system: this June was the worst in years with regards to delays. As JetBlue's 
recent experience testifies, the hardest job for any expanding airline is ensuring deft handling of the inevitable snarl-
ups.
Load-Date: August 7, 2007
End of Document
Inmarsat sails on global shipping boom
Inmarsat sails on global shipping boom
Financial Times (London, England)
August 8, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES UK; Pg. 19
Length: 337 words
Byline: By MAIJA PALMER
Body
Inmarsat announced strong revenues and profits for the first half of 2007 as a global boom in shipping led to 
increased orders for the company's satellite communications equipment.
Inmarsat's technology is used to provide telephone, fax and internet communications on board ships and it is 
mandatory under international law for ships above a certain weight to use the company's reporting systems.
Andrew Sukawaty, chief executive, said: "World trade is booming and there are many more ships out at sea. Also, 
there is demand for more data communications, with ships becoming nodes on corporate networks, constantly 
reporting on progress."
Inmarsat is also benefiting as more airlines use satellite communications to offer passengers in-flight calls and 
internet access.
Ryanair, Emirates and AirAsia have all recently launched such services, while Air France plans trials before the end 
of the year.
Sales of land-based satellite systems rose nearly 10 per cent as news organisations such as the BBC and oil 
companies in remote areas adopted portable equipment.
This helped offset lower revenues from voice calls, as the US army cuts back onuse of Inmarsat systems in Iraq.
Sales rose 16 per cent to Dollars 284m (Pounds 141m), with pre-tax profits up 64 per cent at Dollars 78m. Earnings 
per share doubled to 14 cents and the interim dividend is raised 8 per cent to 11.55 cents.
Shares in Inmarsat, which have risen by almost athird in the past year,firmed another 7p to 420p yesterday.
FT Comment
* Inmarsat is soaring as rivals, such as Globalstar, arehit by technical problems. The launch of a third high-speed 
satellite in the spring will solidify its position. This, in part, helps explain the high share price, running at more than 
Inmarsat sails on global shipping boom
40 times expected earnings for this year. It also reflects hopes Inmarsat will be lifted by new businesses, such as 
hand-held satellite phones, and from offering hybrid satellite and terrestrial internet services in the US. Investors 
may wait for an update on these before taking the stock higher.
Load-Date: August 7, 2007
End of Document
EasyJet enters calmer skies as it maintains forecasts for year
EasyJet enters calmer skies as it maintains forecasts for year
Financial Times (London, England)
August 8, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES UK; Pg. 19
Length: 325 words
Byline: By CHRIS BRYANT
Body
EasyJet has maintained its profit forecast for the year in spite of a third-quarter decline in average revenue per seat, 
raising hopes the low-cost airline is entering calmer skies after a turbulent few months.
The airline expects pre-tax profit growth of 40 to 50per cent for the year toSeptember 30, in spite of reiterating 
guidance that revenue per seat would decline by 5 to 10 per cent in the second half of the year.
EasyJet's shares yesterday rose 37 1/2p to 545 1/2p, their highest level since mid-June.
Increased competition and falling demand for low-cost air travel has forced EasyJet to cut fares and add new routes 
to attract more passengers. In May, it warned of pressure on average fares during the summer.
Ryanair, EasyJet's budget rival, has also warned offalling passenger yields and increasing costs and forecast a rise 
in profitability ofjust 5 per cent this year.
Shares in EasyJet fell almost 30 per cent between May and the end of July, while Ryanair lost 14 per cent.
Chris Avery, an analyst at JPMorgan, said Ryanair's profit outlook had not helped its rival. "EasyJet wouldn't have 
gone downso much if it wasn't forRyanair's rhetoric," he said.
Total revenue per seat fell 8 per cent to Pounds 41.46 in the three months to June 30, while average aircraft 
occupancy slipped from 86 per cent to 84 per cent.
But passenger numbers rose 13 per cent to 9.9m, while sales were 5.7 percent higher at Pounds 486.5m.
The airline blamed reduced "lead-in" fares, an increase in promotional activity and a rise in air passenger duty for 
the drop in seat revenue.
*Aer Lingus has launched its first hub outsidethe Republic of Ireland at Belfast International airport, investing a total 
of Euros 150m (Pounds 102m).
EasyJet enters calmer skies as it maintains forecasts for year
The former state-owned carrier will base three aircraft at the airport, flying routes primarily to Heathrow and 
Amsterdam Schiphol.
Shannon airport in the Republic of Ireland will lose its Heathrow service as part of the new arrangement.
Load-Date: August 7, 2007
End of Document
Danish shares TFN at a glance outlook
Danish shares TFN at a glance outlook
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 8, 2007 Wednesday 7:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 190 words
Body
Shares are expected to open flat to higher after yesterday's upturn, following modest overnight gains on Wall 
Street, and with focus on Carlsberg which published strong second quarter results and GN Store Nord ahead of an 
appeals court decision on its banned sale of Resound.
Yesterday, the OMXC20 index closed 3.41 points higher at 495.38 and the OMXCB Benchmark index rose 3.16 
points to 474.17.
The OMXC All Share index closed 2.89 points higher at 484.81 on turnover of 3.43 bln dkr.
FORTHCOMING EVENTS
Today
-nothing expected
Tomorrow
-June balance of payments, trade balance (07.30 GMT)
-Danske Bank H1 results (09.00-10.00 GMT)
-Novozymes H1 results (06.00 GMT)
-Bavarian Nordic H1 results (Before market opens)
-Codan H1 results
COMPANY NEWS
-Carlsberg lifts FY operating profit guidance by 300 mln dkr to 5 bln dkr
-Carlsberg Q2 net sales 12.639 bln dkr, consensus 12.438 bln dkr
-Carlsberg Q2 operating profit 1.854 bln dkr, consensus 1.791 bln dkr
TODAY'S PRESS
Danish shares TFN at a glance outlook
-Ryanair ponders establishing base in Copenhagen airport after dropping flights out of Malmo (Boersen)
MARKET SENTIMENT
-Novo Nordisk cut to 'equal-weight' from 'overweight' by Morgan Stanley
Load-Date: August 8, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair CEO says would not buy Alitalia , amid reports of new sale contacts
Ryanair CEO says would not buy Alitalia, amid reports of new sale contacts
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 8, 2007 Wednesday 11:34 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC CEO Michael O'Leary said rival airline Alitalia SpA needs restructuring, and he would not 
buy the airline even if it was being given away for free.
In the last few days, there have been unconfirmed reports that new Alitalia chairman Maurizio Prato is planning 
contacts with possible partners, including Air France KLM and Deutsche Lufthansa AG.
'Alitalia is a mess. We would not buy it even if they gave it to us,' O'Leary said at a news conference in Rome.
Alitalia's problems 'will not be resolved until they eliminate the political influences' on the company, he said.
Alitalia could be privatised but not with this highly trade-unionised model of operations, he said.
The Italian flag carrier could have a future but it needs to be restructured and costs cut, he said.
The Italian government owns 49.9 pct of Alitalia and tried to sell its stake in an auction process, but all the potential 
buyers dropped out because of the tough conditions for the buyer.
The government has turned the task of finding a partner for the airline over to Prato.
Load-Date: August 8, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ up 1.5pc after Wall Street rally
ISEQ up 1.5pc after Wall Street rally
Business World (Digest) 
August 8, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 142 words
Highlight: The Dublin market soared by another 1.5pc in the early stages, buoyed by gains on Wall Street 
overnight.
Body
The Dublin market soared by another 1.5pc in the early stages this morning, buoyed by gains on Wall Street 
overnight.
Just after 1030, the ISEQ index was up 121.16 points to 8,744.24.
Leading US shares rebounded last night on after the Federal Reserve decided to keep interest rates on hold.
 The positive close on Wall Street lifted leading European bourses this morning, with the markets in London, Paris, 
Frankfurt and Amsterdam all firmly in the black. In Dublin, the financials were the biggest gainers, with AIB up 12c 
to 19.76, Bank of Ireland up 37c to 14.53 and Anglo Irish Bank, up 46c to 14.29. Irish Life and Permanent was also 
higher, up 2c to 18.42. Other notable movers included CRH, up 69c to 32.50, Elan, up 22c to 13.63, and Kingspan, 
up 39c to 18.04. The airlines also started well, with Aer Lingus up 3c to 2.50 and Ryanair, up 20c to 5.85.
Load-Date: August 10, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair slams Aer Lingus Shannon move
Ryanair slams Aer Lingus Shannon move
Business World (Digest) 
August 8, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 165 words
Highlight: Ryanair has slammed the Aer Lingus decision to cut its Shannon-Heathrow service.
Body
Ryanair has added its voice to the chorus of condemnation of Aer Lingus' decision to cut its Shannon-Heathrow 
service in favour of a new hub from Belfast.
Ryanair claimed the Government had lied in public statements during its attempted takeover for Aer Lingus last 
October. 
The budget airline quoted then Minister for Transport Martin Cullen last October saying Heathrow served a 'unique 
role in ensuring connectivity to/from Ireland' and that this connectivity is 'fundamental both to provide connections 
to/from Dublin, as well as to/from the regions'. 
 Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary said today that given that the Government owns 25.3pc of Aer Lingus and Ryanair 
owns 25pc, it believes Aer Lingus would find it difficult to refuse a joint request from them to maintain the service 
between Shannon and Heathrow. He said that closing the Shannon-Heathrow route demonstrated that the 
government lied in their public statements during the attempted Ryanair takeover of Aer Lingus last October.
Load-Date: August 10, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair rules out making Alitalia bid
Ryanair rules out making Alitalia bid
Business World (Digest) 
August 8, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 148 words
Highlight: No frills airline Ryanair has ruled out making a bid for rival carrier Alitalia.
Body
No frills airline Ryanair has ruled out making a bid for rival carrier Alitalia.
Chief executive, Michael O'Leary, described the airline as "a mess" and added "we would not buy it even if they 
gave it to us".
Several airlines including Air France KLM and Deutsche Lufthansa have been linked with a bid for the Italian 
company in recent days.
 Mr O'Leary was speaking in Rome after announcing that Ryanair is to challenge in the Italian courts a requirement 
to move flights from Rome's Ciampino airport as of this winter. In July, the Italian authorities decided to cut total 
daily flights out of Ciampino to 100, down from 138. The Government said the move was aimed at cutting noise and 
pollution for people living close to the airport. O'Leary described the move as "the latest illegal attempt to block low-
cost carriers and competition". The move is aimed at supporting Alitalia, he added.
Load-Date: August 10, 2007
End of Document
Broker Rounup: ABN positive on easyJet and Ryanair
Broker Rounup: ABN positive on easyJet and Ryanair
Citywire
August 8, 2007 Wednesday 10:15 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 90 words
Body
ABN Amro has trading buys for easyJet and Ryanair.
Among other recommendations:
* WH Ireland has a buy for Speedy Hire and outperforms for Royal Bank of Scotland, Meggitt, Mouchel Parkman 
and RPS Group.The broker has moved Ukr Products to from speculative buy to market perform
* ABN Amro upgrades Xstrata to buy from hold with a £33.30 target and reiterates hold Vodafone
* JP Morgan reiterates neutral on Shire, raising target to £13.45 from £13.20 and has an overweight for Greene 
King
* Altium downgrades Future to hold from add with a 46p target
Load-Date: August 11, 2007
End of Document
Irish airline Aer Lingus opens new base in Northern Ireland
Irish airline Aer Lingus opens new base in Northern Ireland
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 7, 2007 Tuesday 7:08 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 515 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Irish airline Aer Lingus Group PLC announced Tuesday it is opening operations in Northern Ireland at the expense 
of long-standing services in the Republic of Ireland, a move that drew widespread criticism south of the border.
Aer Lingus said the British territory represented an opportunity for better growth and profits compared to Shannon 
Airport, the major hub for wooing international business to Ireland's largely rural west.
The airline's plan, unveiled at a joint press conference with leaders of the new Protestant-Catholic government in 
Northern Ireland, means that Belfast will gain three-times-daily links to Heathrow, Europe's busiest airport, starting 
in mid-January and the west of Ireland will lose theirs.
"It's a bittersweet day. We've had to make some tough choices in the way we allocate our Heathrow resources," 
said Aer Lingus chief executive Dermot Mannion.
"The returns from Shannon have been disappointing and we therefore had to consider whether we could get a 
better return from deploying them elsewhere," Mannion said during an earlier meeting with Shannon employees, 
some of whom heckled him.
The move came 10 months after the government sold most of its stake in Aer Lingus. It appeared to fly in the face 
of government assurances that privatization would not lead to the loss of air links important for Irish-based 
companies.
Shannon serves the three major cities of western Ireland: Galway to the north, and Limerick and Cork to the south.
The government of Prime Minister Bertie Ahern, which retains a 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus, declined to 
comment on the airline's plan to cut Shannon-Heathrow links.
But opposition leaders and business chiefs lambasted the move as likely to handicap economic development on 
Ireland's west coast and called on the government to use its shareholder leverage to reverse it.
Irish airline Aer Lingus opens new base in Northern Ireland
"Many companies based in the region trade internationally and use the Heathrow link for product distribution and 
personnel. This decision is a massive blow to those companies and ultimately to the region," said Pat Delaney of 
the Irish Business and Employers Confederation, an umbrella group representing more than 7,000 businesses in 
Ireland.
Ryanair, the Dublin-based budget airline that has been trying to take over Aer Lingus, said it was willing to mount a 
joint offensive with the government to retain the Shannon-Heathrow services.
In a letter to the prime minister, Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary called on the government to combine the 
power of its 25.3 percent holding of Aer Lingus shares with Ryanair's own 25.2 percent.
"You may be assured that Ryanair will support any action taken by your government to encourage Aer Lingus to 
maintain its existing four flights a day operation between Shannon and London Heathrow," O'Leary wrote.
For decades, the Irish government has forced many trans-Atlantic passenger aircraft coming to or from Dublin to 
stop at Shannon in a bid to boost passenger traffic in the less populated west of Ireland. That rule is scheduled to 
be abandoned in March as part of the U.S.-European Union "open skies" agreement.
Load-Date: August 8, 2007
End of Document
Irish airline Aer Lingus opens new base in Northern Ireland
Irish airline Aer Lingus opens new base in Northern Ireland
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 7, 2007 Tuesday 6:55 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 515 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Irish airline Aer Lingus Group PLC announced Tuesday it is opening operations in Northern Ireland at the expense 
of long-standing services in the Republic of Ireland, a move that drew widespread criticism south of the border.
Aer Lingus said the British territory represented an opportunity for better growth and profits compared to Shannon 
Airport, the major hub for wooing international business to Ireland's largely rural west.
The airline's plan, unveiled at a joint press conference with leaders of the new Protestant-Catholic government in 
Northern Ireland, means that Belfast will gain three-times-daily links to Heathrow, Europe's busiest airport, starting 
in mid-January and the west of Ireland will lose theirs.
"It's a bittersweet day. We've had to make some tough choices in the way we allocate our Heathrow resources," 
said Aer Lingus chief executive Dermot Mannion.
"The returns from Shannon have been disappointing and we therefore had to consider whether we could get a 
better return from deploying them elsewhere," Mannion said during an earlier meeting with Shannon employees, 
some of whom heckled him.
The move came 10 months after the government sold most of its stake in Aer Lingus. It appeared to fly in the face 
of government assurances that privatization would not lead to the loss of air links important for Irish-based 
companies.
Shannon serves the three major cities of western Ireland: Galway to the north, and Limerick and Cork to the south.
The government of Prime Minister Bertie Ahern, which retains a 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus, declined to 
comment on the airline's plan to cut Shannon-Heathrow links.
But opposition leaders and business chiefs lambasted the move as likely to handicap economic development on 
Ireland's west coast and called on the government to use its shareholder leverage to reverse it.
Irish airline Aer Lingus opens new base in Northern Ireland
"Many companies based in the region trade internationally and use the Heathrow link for product distribution and 
personnel. This decision is a massive blow to those companies and ultimately to the region," said Pat Delaney of 
the Irish Business and Employers Confederation, an umbrella group representing more than 7,000 businesses in 
Ireland.
Ryanair, the Dublin-based budget airline that has been trying to take over Aer Lingus, said it was willing to mount a 
joint offensive with the government to retain the Shannon-Heathrow services.
In a letter to the prime minister, Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary called on the government to combine the 
power of its 25.3 percent holding of Aer Lingus shares with Ryanair's own 25.2 percent.
"You may be assured that Ryanair will support any action taken by your government to encourage Aer Lingus to 
maintain its existing four flights a day operation between Shannon and London Heathrow," O'Leary wrote.
For decades, the Irish government has forced many trans-Atlantic passenger aircraft coming to or from Dublin to 
stop at Shannon in a bid to boost passenger traffic in the less populated west of Ireland. That rule is scheduled to 
be abandoned in March as part of the U.S.-European Union "open skies" agreement.
Load-Date: August 8, 2007
End of Document
Banks the big winners as ISEQ soars 2pc
Banks the big winners as ISEQ soars 2pc
Business World (Digest) 
August 7, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 484 words
Highlight: Financial shares were big winners today as the Dublin market rallied by almost 2pc.
Body
Financial shares were big winners today as the Dublin market rallied by almost 2pc on the back of sharp gains 
elsewhere in Europe.
Europe's leading exchanges ended higher as concern eased about the exposure of banks to the fragile US 
subprime mortgage market.
The ISEQ index closed 150.60 points higher at 8,623.080, with banks leading the way.
 AIB was the biggest gainer in the sector, jumping 64c to 19.64, while Bank of Ireland edged up 30c to 14.15 and 
Irish Life and Permanent tacked on 31c to 18.39. Anglo Irish Bank was also in the black, up 18c to 13.83. 
Construction shares put in a mixed performance. CRH and McInerney both slipped into the red, falling 25c to 31.80 
and 5c to 2.24 respectively. However, Grafton and Kingspan both closed in positive territory, climbing 6c to 9.85 
and 54c to 17.64 respectively. Aer Lingus edged up 3c to 2.47 after it announced a new base in Belfast - its first 
outwith the Republic of Ireland. The airline said that three A320 aircraft will be based at Belfast International Airport 
and will serve eight new routes. It added that the new base gives the potential for up to one million new passengers 
per year and will comprise a total investment of E150 million. Meanwhile, Ryanair was also higher, up 12c to 5.40, 
as speculation intensifies that it too is about to announce new bases. Reports suggest that the no-frills carrier is 
looking to strengthen its hand in the Spanish market with the addition of two new bases - most likely in Valencia and 
Alicante. These would compliment Ryanair's existing Spanish bases in Barcelona and Madrid. Other notable 
movers included C and C, down 7c to 6.42, IAWS, up 33c to 15.51, Kerry Group, up 96c to 19.96, and Newcourt, 
up 3c to 1.65. Elsewhere, drug maker Elan was up 5pc, or 70c, to 13.40 on the back of reports that the company is 
to close one of its US offices in a bid to cut costs. Bookmaker Paddy Power jumped by almost 5pc, or 117c, to 
24.96. Meanwhile, Irish Continental Group fell 50c to 24.50 after it was confirmed that property developer Liam 
Carroll now owns a 17.64pc stake in the ferries operator. The move could frustrate both deadlocked bidders for the 
company - Aella and Moonduster. Shares in Trinity Biotech closed unchanged at 2.00 as investors await the 
Banks the big winners as ISEQ soars 2pc
company's second quarter figures, which are due to be released on Thursday. Davy analyst, Jack Gorman, said he 
is expecting the diagnostics firm to post a 37pc increase in revenues to USD37.5m and a 58pc rise in pre tax profits 
to USD3.3m. Elsewhere, fencing and scaffolding company Siteserv slipped 1.5pc, or 1c, to 0.66 after it was 
confirmed over the weekend that chief financial officer and company secretary, Kevin Gallen, has resigned with 
immediate effect. Mr Gallen, who only joined the group at the end of last year, will be replaced by non-executive 
director Martin Cole until a full-time replacement can be found, the company said.
Load-Date: August 10, 2007
End of Document
Full power ahead at Nantgarw
Full power ahead at Nantgarw
Flight International
August 7, 2007
Copyright 2007 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: WORKING WEEK
Length: 466 words
Body
Alan Kelly is managing director for General Electric's engine maintenance facility in Nantgarw, near Cardiff, in 
Wales. The facility, along with GE's other UK engine facility at Prestwick in Scotland, provides engine overhaul and 
repair services for a panoply of international clients including British Airways, EasyJet and Ryanair.How did you get 
started in engineering?I began with an engineering apprenticeship for Rolls-Royce in 1986, before I went on to do a 
bachelor's degree in manufacturing engineering and management studies at Paisley University. 
At university, I was given a sponsorship by GE Caledonian, and joined the business straight from university in 1994 
as a production engineer for services.And you've been with the company ever since?Yes. Before my appointment 
in Wales, I was working in Malaysia as general manager for the services operation. In Malaysia, I was responsible 
for overseeing an overhaul of the engineering service in a joint venture with Malaysia Airlines. In October 2005, I 
was offered the opportunity to replace my predecessor in Wales, and I accepted, as it was a perfect opportunity, 
both from a professional and family perspective.What work goes through the shop at Nantgarw?We have a very 
skilled workforce in the shop maintaining the GE90 family of engines, the CFM series, and the RB211-524 and 
RB211-535C.We are in the process of introducing capability for the GP7200, which will power the Airbus A380. In 
anticipation of this, we are training employees and preparing our shop processes. We don't expect to see volume of 
the GP7200 for some time, but this will become an important part of our business in the future.How many people 
work at Nantgarw and where are they drawn from?We have about 120 people working in technical and leadership 
positions, with an operations team of around 750 highly skilled mechanics. We are a very local employer, and are 
very proud of our apprentice scheme. We also cast our net wider, and work with a long list of universities and 
technical colleges to recruit the best talent into the organisation.What does the next 12 months have in store?I want 
to see our people developing ownership with our customers by getting a better understanding of the challenges 
they face, and differentiating ourselves from other engine overhaul providers. We are very heavily engaged in a 
programme of Lean Six Sigma methodology, which has enabled us to adequately prepare for increases in 
customers and volume by looking at elements such as our layout. It has already paid dividends, by improving our 
performance in shop flow and reducing our turnaround times, and I want to see that go further. It is important that 
we bring customers to the site and show them the good work that's going on here. For more information, visit 
www.geae.com
Full power ahead at Nantgarw
Load-Date: August 9, 2007
End of Document
EasyJet sticks to upbeat full-year guidance
EasyJet sticks to upbeat full-year guidance
Citywire
August 7, 2007 Tuesday 1:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 408 words
Body
Shares of discount airline easyJet soared after the company said it was sticking to its profit forecasts for the full 
year as passenger numbers rose and it cut costs to make up for lower fares.
'Continued investment in a modern, low-cost fleet and on-going improvements in efficiency have resulted in unit 
costs, excluding fuel, being down in excess of 10% compared to the same period last year,' Luton-based easyJet 
(EZJ) said in a statement.
It's forecasting a 40% to 50% increase in pre-tax profit for the year ending 30 September.
Panmure Gordon reiterated its buy recommendation on the shares and an 800p-a-share target price, but Collins 
Stewart retained its hold rating and a price target of 630p.
'The worst performance in the sector during the recent reporting season,' Collins Stewart added.
'[While] easyJet looks cheap relative to our 630p price target, we see this as vulnerable given the revenue shortfalls 
and believe there is some downside in [2008] consensus earnings.'
At 1pm the FTSE 250-listed airline's shares had gained 6.8% to 542.5p, after earlier touching 544.5p, their highest 
level in two months. They've risen about 27.9% from a year ago but are 27% off their 52-week high of 741.5p on 18 
April.
EasyJet said its sales in the three months ended 30 June rose 5.7% to £486.5 million from £460.2 million in the 
same period a year earlier, on passenger numbers that grew by 13% to 9.9 million from 8.8 million.
Per-seat revenue fell 8% to £41.46 from £45.07 as a result of promotions and the doubling of Air Passenger Duty in 
the UK, easyJet said, while the average number of aircraft in use rose 15.1% to 126. It also benefited from the 
strength of the pound since 54% of its revenue is in pounds but 35% of its costs are in dollars.
During the three months, easyJet continued its expansion into non-UK markets with the addition of six routes to its 
Milan base and the addition of three new countries to its network: Austria, Belgium and Romania. It's now operating 
318 routes to 83 airports in 22 countries and has become Portugal's second-largest carrier, easyJet said.
In a note to investors, Panmure Gordon said it regarded the shares as a good value at their current 15 times 
earnings level and saw continued growth potential for discount airlines particularly in continental Europe.
EasyJet sticks to upbeat full-year guidance
EasyJet was founded in 1995 by Greek entrepreneur Stelios Haji-Ioannou. It's now Europe's second-largest 
discount airline after Ryanair Holdings.
Load-Date: August 10, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ up 2pc as AIB and ICG, lead the way
ISEQ up 2pc as AIB and ICG, lead the way
Business World (Digest) 
August 7, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 154 words
Highlight: The Dublin market soared by almost 2pc this morning with AIB and Irish Continental Group leading the 
way.
Body
The Dublin market soared by almost 2pc this morning with AIB and Irish Continental Group leading the way.
Just after 1100, the ISEQ index was up 185.67 points to 8,658.150.
The financials were all in the black, with AIB up 65c to 19.65, Bank of Ireland up 35c to 14.20 and Anglo Irish Bank 
up 26c to 13.91. Meanwhile, Irish Life and Permanent jumped an impressive 55c to 18.60.
 Irish Continental continued to climb, up 100c to 25.00, as the two groups bidding for control of the ferries operator 
remain deadlocked. Elsewhere, shares in drug maker Elan soared by more than 6pc in the opening hours of trade, 
up 80c to 13.50. Shares rose on the back of reports that the company is to close one of its US offices in a bid to cut 
costs. Other notable movers today include IAWS, up 35c to 15.55, Kingspan, up 45c to 17.55, Kerry Group, up 77c 
to 19.77. Paddy Power tacked on 51c to 24.31, while Ryanair added on 17c to trade at 5.45.
Load-Date: August 9, 2007
End of Document
Madrid shares TFN at a glance outlook
Madrid shares TFN at a glance outlook
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 6, 2007 Monday 7:24 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 280 words
Body
Shares are expected to open lower with little corporate newsflow to distract investors' attention from heavy losses 
suffered on Wall Street last week, though volumes will be low as the Spanish holiday season gets underway.
Friday, the IBEX-35 index closed down 144.30 points at 14,534.3, after trading in a range of 14,533-14,719.
FORTHCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Nothing scheduled
TOMORROW
Nothing scheduled
WEEKEND PRESS
Santander, RBS approached ABN to buy assets before Barclays bid talks (Gaceta de los Negocios)
-Realia may participate in corporate move involving Parquesol and San Jose (Gaceta de los Negocios rumour 
column)
TODAY'S PRESS
-Ryanair plans two more bases in Spain (Financial Times)
-Spain broadcasters study suit against Zattoo for unauthorised distribution (Cinco Dias)
-Abertis mulls compensation claim for weekend motorway toll lifting (El Economista)
-OHL studies ports projects in Argentina, Brazil, Mexico (Expansion)
-Algeria govt says Medgaz dispute resolved (Expansion)
LATE CORPORATE NEWS
Madrid shares TFN at a glance outlook
-Banco Popular 6 bln bond issue approved by Irish Stock Exchange
-ACS agrees syndicated loan to finance 1.264 bln eur, 25.1 pct Hochtief stake
-Acciona, Enel to appeal energy watchdog conditions on Endesa bid
-Endesa board says Acciona, Enel offer is fair
MARKET SENTIMENT
-The broad market is expected to open down with volumes low and volatility high as many Spanish investors start 
their annual leave and little corporate newsflow to distract from the heavy losses on Wall Street Friday.
-All eyes will be on Santander as Fortis holds its EGM today at which shareholders will vote on whether to approve 
a proposed 13 bln eur capital hike to fund its part of the bid for Dutch peer ABN Amro.
Load-Date: August 6, 2007
End of Document
UK AND IRELAND : Ryanair on the attack in Spain
UK AND IRELAND: Ryanair on the attack in Spain
Financial Times (London, England)
August 6, 2007 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES: UK AND IRELAND; Pg. 16
Length: 327 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE
Body
Ryanair, the leading European low-cost airline, is establishing two more operating bases in Spain.
The Irish carrier, which has the broadest spread of operations across Europe of any airline, with 20 bases in eight 
countries, is thought to be close to finalising deals in Valencia and Alicante.
The expected moves will intensify the battle for the Spanish market, the main focus for the expansion of low-cost 
carriers in Europe after the UK and Germany.
Ryanair has a base in Barcelona-Girona with nine aircraft and 49 routes and, in late November, opened in Madrid, 
which has five aircraft and 15 routes to date. The Spanish network was forecast to rise to 9m passengers a year 
including the Madrid base.
Rival EasyJet opened its first base in Spain in February in Madrid, with Barajas airport doubling the number of 
runways to four and opening a fourth terminal.
The ferocity of the competition in the Spanish airline market was underlined on Friday when Vueling, a Spanish 
start-up low-cost carrier that began flying three years ago, alarmed investors by announcing net losses in the first 
six months of this year had jumped from Euros 6.5m to Euros 33.7m (Pounds 22.8m).
Vueling was only floated in December and its share price plunged about 30 per cent on Friday, closing Euros 6.89 
lower at Euros 15.80.
It blamed the losses on the price war, as its average fares fell 23.4 per cent year-on-year in the second quarter from 
Euros 51.85 to Euros 39.71.
Vueling said much of the pressure on its Barcelona and Madrid bases was coming from Clickair, a low-cost airline 
launched by Iberia, the Spanish flag carrier, and from Spanair, a subsidiary of SAS Scandinavian Airlines, which is 
up for sale.
UK AND IRELAND : Ryanair on the attack in Spain
Ryanair has said it would ground seven of its 40 aircraft based at Stansted for four months this winter, to reduce 
lossmaking routes and protest at a doubling of airport charges since April. It has not taken any action to slow the 
flow of new aircraft ordered from Boeing.
Load-Date: August 5, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to open new Spanish bases in Valencia and Alicante - report
Ryanair to open new Spanish bases in Valencia and Alicante - report
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 6, 2007 Monday 7:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 173 words
Body
Ryanair, the leading European low-cost airline, is establishing two new Spanish bases in Valencia and Alicante, 
reports the Financial Times.
The Irish carrier is thought to be close to finalising deals in both cities, the newspaper said.
Ryanair has a base in Barcelona-Girona, with nine aircraft and 49 routes, and opened another in Madrid in 
November, which has five aircraft and 15 routes to date. The Spanish network was forecast to rise to 9 mln 
passengers a year, including the Madrid base.
Ryanair's move will intensify the battle for the Spanish market, the main focus for the expansion of low-cost carriers 
in Europe after the UK and Germany, the FT said.
The competitiveness of the market was underlined last week when low-cost carrier Vueling Airlines SA issued a 
profit warning after a disappointing set of first half figures.
Vueling flagged that the impact on earnings of pricing pressures from increased competition was greater than it had 
expected in the second quarter, when average fares declined 23.4 pct from a year earlier.
Load-Date: August 6, 2007
End of Document
Monday Papers: ICI opens books to Akzo - bid news and gossip
Monday Papers: ICI opens books to Akzo - bid news and gossip
Citywire
August 6, 2007 Monday 6:53 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 280 words
Body
ICI opens books to Akzo, Standard Life hires Merrill as it considers bid for Resolution and Vodafone to retain its 
stake in Verizon Wireless.
* ICI opens up its books to Akzo Nobel after the Dutch group indicates it is ready to pay up to 670p-a-share for the 
company * Standard Life hires Merrill Lynch as it considers a bid for Resolution * Vodafone is to retain its stake in 
Verizon Wireless after opting not to exercise its entitlement to sell its £26 billion stake * International Power 
acquires Trinergy, a group of windfarm projects in Italy and Germany, for £588 million * Royal Bank of Scotland-led 
consortium and ABN Amro end hostilities and agree to a 'constructive dialogue' over bid; Fortis investors vote today 
on rights issue to finance its part in the deal * Delta Two under pressure to cut the level of debt in the £10.6 billion 
outline takeover proposal for Sainsbury * 3i Group to make its first direct investment in China * Robert Tchenguiz 
raises stake in Mitchells & Butlers to 20% * TPG Capital urges investors to be patient with Debenhams and defends 
colossal profits that it and others made on the deal * Suspicious trading before large US mergers and acquisitions 
has risen fourfold in the past five years, according to analysis commissioned by the Financial Times * Used car 
dealership AA Auto preparing an Initial Public Offering to raise £30 million on the Budapest and Prague stock 
markets * Ryanair to establish two more operating bases in Spain * Venture capitalist Draper Fisher Jurvetson to 
acquire a stake in Esprit Capital * Germany's IKB faces takeover threat from rescuers * Liberty Global poised to 
enter £11 billion bid battle for Virgin Media
Load-Date: August 9, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 5, 2007 Sunday 4:20 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 575 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
RBS H1 profit up 11 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Royal Bank of Scotland, the UK bank leading a consortium seeking to buy Dutch 
rival ABN Amro, delivered an 11 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost discipline and a strong performance 
from its investment banking arm.
RBS, the UK's second-biggest bank, said operating profit for the six months to June 30 came in at 5.106 bln stg, up 
11 pct on the same period last year.
British Airways Q1 pretax profit 289 mln stg vs 191 mln
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - British Airways said pretax profit rose to 289 mln stg in the first quarter from 191 
mln stg for the same period last year on flat revenues excluding exchange rates, reflecting the impact of security 
and baggage restrictions on shorthaul and premium transfer traffic.
Operating profit was 263 mln stg against 206 mln, and the operating margin increased to 12 pct from 9.2 pct. BA 
said its target of a 10 pct operating margin for the year remains.
Anglo American to sell Tarmac, return 4 bln usd as H1 profit rises
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Mining giant Anglo American PLC announced the last major disposal of its 
restructuring programme with the auction of industrial metals business Tarmac, alongside rising interim profits and 
a further 4 bln usd in share buybacks.
Chief executive Cynthia Carroll told reporters in a conference call that there has already been 'considerable interest' 
from both trade and private equity buyers for Tarmac, which UBS estimates to be worth 7.8 bln usd.
Tomkins H1 pretax profit rises to 148.9 mln stg but sales fall 7.9 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Tomkins PLC posted a 7.9 pct decline in first-half sales which were hurt by a 
weaker US dollar, lower demand from automotive original equipment in North America as well as continued 
weakness in the US residential housing market.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
The car parts and building products maker said first-half sales fell to 1.50 bn stg from 1.65 bn in 2006. But pretax 
profit rose to 148.9 mln stg from 135.7 mln stg in the same period last year.
Ryanair July passenger numbers 4.76 mln, up 21 pct yr-on-yr
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Budget airline Ryanair Holdings said its passenger numbers increased 21 pct in 
July to 4,760,460 against 3,940,792 for the same month last year. The load factor -- how full its aircraft were -- was 
unchanged at 90 pct.
Ryanair carried 45,262,576 passengers in the 12 months to July 31, and its load factor for the period was 82 pct, it 
said in a statement.
BoE keeps bank rate unchanged at 5.75 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The Bank of England's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee has kept its official 
interest rate unchanged at 5.75 pct.
While the decision was fully expected - all 35 economists polled by Thomson Financial News forecasted no change 
- this was the first time rates had been left on hold in the month of August since 2003.
UK CIPS July services PMI falls to 57.0 from 57.7 in June - sources
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The UK services sector, which accounts for nearly three quarters of the whole 
economy, grew at a slower pace in July than in June, sources said of a key survey.
They said the July business activity purchasing managers' index from the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and 
Supply came in at 57.0, the lowest reading since September last year. The figure decreased from 57.7 in June and 
missed expectations for a more modest dip to 57.4.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: August 5, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 5, 2007 Sunday 11:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 575 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
RBS H1 profit up 11 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Royal Bank of Scotland, the UK bank leading a consortium seeking to buy Dutch 
rival ABN Amro, delivered an 11 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost discipline and a strong performance 
from its investment banking arm.
RBS, the UK's second-biggest bank, said operating profit for the six months to June 30 came in at 5.106 bln stg, up 
11 pct on the same period last year.
British Airways Q1 pretax profit 289 mln stg vs 191 mln
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - British Airways said pretax profit rose to 289 mln stg in the first quarter from 191 
mln stg for the same period last year on flat revenues excluding exchange rates, reflecting the impact of security 
and baggage restrictions on shorthaul and premium transfer traffic.
Operating profit was 263 mln stg against 206 mln, and the operating margin increased to 12 pct from 9.2 pct. BA 
said its target of a 10 pct operating margin for the year remains.
Anglo American to sell Tarmac, return 4 bln usd as H1 profit rises
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Mining giant Anglo American PLC announced the last major disposal of its 
restructuring programme with the auction of industrial metals business Tarmac, alongside rising interim profits and 
a further 4 bln usd in share buybacks.
Chief executive Cynthia Carroll told reporters in a conference call that there has already been 'considerable interest' 
from both trade and private equity buyers for Tarmac, which UBS estimates to be worth 7.8 bln usd.
Tomkins H1 pretax profit rises to 148.9 mln stg but sales fall 7.9 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Tomkins PLC posted a 7.9 pct decline in first-half sales which were hurt by a 
weaker US dollar, lower demand from automotive original equipment in North America as well as continued 
weakness in the US residential housing market.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
The car parts and building products maker said first-half sales fell to 1.50 bn stg from 1.65 bn in 2006. But pretax 
profit rose to 148.9 mln stg from 135.7 mln stg in the same period last year.
Ryanair July passenger numbers 4.76 mln, up 21 pct yr-on-yr
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Budget airline Ryanair Holdings said its passenger numbers increased 21 pct in 
July to 4,760,460 against 3,940,792 for the same month last year. The load factor -- how full its aircraft were -- was 
unchanged at 90 pct.
Ryanair carried 45,262,576 passengers in the 12 months to July 31, and its load factor for the period was 82 pct, it 
said in a statement.
BoE keeps bank rate unchanged at 5.75 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The Bank of England's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee has kept its official 
interest rate unchanged at 5.75 pct.
While the decision was fully expected - all 35 economists polled by Thomson Financial News forecasted no change 
- this was the first time rates had been left on hold in the month of August since 2003.
UK CIPS July services PMI falls to 57.0 from 57.7 in June - sources
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The UK services sector, which accounts for nearly three quarters of the whole 
economy, grew at a slower pace in July than in June, sources said of a key survey.
They said the July business activity purchasing managers' index from the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and 
Supply came in at 57.0, the lowest reading since September last year. The figure decreased from 57.7 in June and 
missed expectations for a more modest dip to 57.4.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: August 5, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 0805 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 0805 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 5, 2007 Sunday 8:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 575 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
RBS H1 profit up 11 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Royal Bank of Scotland, the UK bank leading a consortium seeking to buy Dutch 
rival ABN Amro, delivered an 11 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost discipline and a strong performance 
from its investment banking arm.
RBS, the UK's second-biggest bank, said operating profit for the six months to June 30 came in at 5.106 bln stg, up 
11 pct on the same period last year.
British Airways Q1 pretax profit 289 mln stg vs 191 mln
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - British Airways said pretax profit rose to 289 mln stg in the first quarter from 191 
mln stg for the same period last year on flat revenues excluding exchange rates, reflecting the impact of security 
and baggage restrictions on shorthaul and premium transfer traffic.
Operating profit was 263 mln stg against 206 mln, and the operating margin increased to 12 pct from 9.2 pct. BA 
said its target of a 10 pct operating margin for the year remains.
Anglo American to sell Tarmac, return 4 bln usd as H1 profit rises
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Mining giant Anglo American PLC announced the last major disposal of its 
restructuring programme with the auction of industrial metals business Tarmac, alongside rising interim profits and 
a further 4 bln usd in share buybacks.
Chief executive Cynthia Carroll told reporters in a conference call that there has already been 'considerable interest' 
from both trade and private equity buyers for Tarmac, which UBS estimates to be worth 7.8 bln usd.
Tomkins H1 pretax profit rises to 148.9 mln stg but sales fall 7.9 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Tomkins PLC posted a 7.9 pct decline in first-half sales which were hurt by a 
weaker US dollar, lower demand from automotive original equipment in North America as well as continued 
weakness in the US residential housing market.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 0805 BST
The car parts and building products maker said first-half sales fell to 1.50 bn stg from 1.65 bn in 2006. But pretax 
profit rose to 148.9 mln stg from 135.7 mln stg in the same period last year.
Ryanair July passenger numbers 4.76 mln, up 21 pct yr-on-yr
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Budget airline Ryanair Holdings said its passenger numbers increased 21 pct in 
July to 4,760,460 against 3,940,792 for the same month last year. The load factor -- how full its aircraft were -- was 
unchanged at 90 pct.
Ryanair carried 45,262,576 passengers in the 12 months to July 31, and its load factor for the period was 82 pct, it 
said in a statement.
BoE keeps bank rate unchanged at 5.75 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The Bank of England's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee has kept its official 
interest rate unchanged at 5.75 pct.
While the decision was fully expected - all 35 economists polled by Thomson Financial News forecasted no change 
- this was the first time rates had been left on hold in the month of August since 2003.
UK CIPS July services PMI falls to 57.0 from 57.7 in June - sources
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The UK services sector, which accounts for nearly three quarters of the whole 
economy, grew at a slower pace in July than in June, sources said of a key survey.
They said the July business activity purchasing managers' index from the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and 
Supply came in at 57.0, the lowest reading since September last year. The figure decreased from 57.7 in June and 
missed expectations for a more modest dip to 57.4.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: August 5, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 0805 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 0805 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 4, 2007 Saturday 8:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 575 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
RBS H1 profit up 11 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Royal Bank of Scotland, the UK bank leading a consortium seeking to buy Dutch 
rival ABN Amro, delivered an 11 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost discipline and a strong performance 
from its investment banking arm.
RBS, the UK's second-biggest bank, said operating profit for the six months to June 30 came in at 5.106 bln stg, up 
11 pct on the same period last year.
British Airways Q1 pretax profit 289 mln stg vs 191 mln
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - British Airways said pretax profit rose to 289 mln stg in the first quarter from 191 
mln stg for the same period last year on flat revenues excluding exchange rates, reflecting the impact of security 
and baggage restrictions on shorthaul and premium transfer traffic.
Operating profit was 263 mln stg against 206 mln, and the operating margin increased to 12 pct from 9.2 pct. BA 
said its target of a 10 pct operating margin for the year remains.
Anglo American to sell Tarmac, return 4 bln usd as H1 profit rises
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Mining giant Anglo American PLC announced the last major disposal of its 
restructuring programme with the auction of industrial metals business Tarmac, alongside rising interim profits and 
a further 4 bln usd in share buybacks.
Chief executive Cynthia Carroll told reporters in a conference call that there has already been 'considerable interest' 
from both trade and private equity buyers for Tarmac, which UBS estimates to be worth 7.8 bln usd.
Tomkins H1 pretax profit rises to 148.9 mln stg but sales fall 7.9 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Tomkins PLC posted a 7.9 pct decline in first-half sales which were hurt by a 
weaker US dollar, lower demand from automotive original equipment in North America as well as continued 
weakness in the US residential housing market.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 0805 BST
The car parts and building products maker said first-half sales fell to 1.50 bn stg from 1.65 bn in 2006. But pretax 
profit rose to 148.9 mln stg from 135.7 mln stg in the same period last year.
Ryanair July passenger numbers 4.76 mln, up 21 pct yr-on-yr
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Budget airline Ryanair Holdings said its passenger numbers increased 21 pct in 
July to 4,760,460 against 3,940,792 for the same month last year. The load factor -- how full its aircraft were -- was 
unchanged at 90 pct.
Ryanair carried 45,262,576 passengers in the 12 months to July 31, and its load factor for the period was 82 pct, it 
said in a statement.
BoE keeps bank rate unchanged at 5.75 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The Bank of England's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee has kept its official 
interest rate unchanged at 5.75 pct.
While the decision was fully expected - all 35 economists polled by Thomson Financial News forecasted no change 
- this was the first time rates had been left on hold in the month of August since 2003.
UK CIPS July services PMI falls to 57.0 from 57.7 in June - sources
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The UK services sector, which accounts for nearly three quarters of the whole 
economy, grew at a slower pace in July than in June, sources said of a key survey.
They said the July business activity purchasing managers' index from the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and 
Supply came in at 57.0, the lowest reading since September last year. The figure decreased from 57.7 in June and 
missed expectations for a more modest dip to 57.4.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: August 4, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 4, 2007 Saturday 4:20 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 575 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
RBS H1 profit up 11 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Royal Bank of Scotland, the UK bank leading a consortium seeking to buy Dutch 
rival ABN Amro, delivered an 11 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost discipline and a strong performance 
from its investment banking arm.
RBS, the UK's second-biggest bank, said operating profit for the six months to June 30 came in at 5.106 bln stg, up 
11 pct on the same period last year.
British Airways Q1 pretax profit 289 mln stg vs 191 mln
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - British Airways said pretax profit rose to 289 mln stg in the first quarter from 191 
mln stg for the same period last year on flat revenues excluding exchange rates, reflecting the impact of security 
and baggage restrictions on shorthaul and premium transfer traffic.
Operating profit was 263 mln stg against 206 mln, and the operating margin increased to 12 pct from 9.2 pct. BA 
said its target of a 10 pct operating margin for the year remains.
Anglo American to sell Tarmac, return 4 bln usd as H1 profit rises
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Mining giant Anglo American PLC announced the last major disposal of its 
restructuring programme with the auction of industrial metals business Tarmac, alongside rising interim profits and 
a further 4 bln usd in share buybacks.
Chief executive Cynthia Carroll told reporters in a conference call that there has already been 'considerable interest' 
from both trade and private equity buyers for Tarmac, which UBS estimates to be worth 7.8 bln usd.
Tomkins H1 pretax profit rises to 148.9 mln stg but sales fall 7.9 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Tomkins PLC posted a 7.9 pct decline in first-half sales which were hurt by a 
weaker US dollar, lower demand from automotive original equipment in North America as well as continued 
weakness in the US residential housing market.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
The car parts and building products maker said first-half sales fell to 1.50 bn stg from 1.65 bn in 2006. But pretax 
profit rose to 148.9 mln stg from 135.7 mln stg in the same period last year.
Ryanair July passenger numbers 4.76 mln, up 21 pct yr-on-yr
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Budget airline Ryanair Holdings said its passenger numbers increased 21 pct in 
July to 4,760,460 against 3,940,792 for the same month last year. The load factor -- how full its aircraft were -- was 
unchanged at 90 pct.
Ryanair carried 45,262,576 passengers in the 12 months to July 31, and its load factor for the period was 82 pct, it 
said in a statement.
BoE keeps bank rate unchanged at 5.75 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The Bank of England's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee has kept its official 
interest rate unchanged at 5.75 pct.
While the decision was fully expected - all 35 economists polled by Thomson Financial News forecasted no change 
- this was the first time rates had been left on hold in the month of August since 2003.
UK CIPS July services PMI falls to 57.0 from 57.7 in June - sources
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The UK services sector, which accounts for nearly three quarters of the whole 
economy, grew at a slower pace in July than in June, sources said of a key survey.
They said the July business activity purchasing managers' index from the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and 
Supply came in at 57.0, the lowest reading since September last year. The figure decreased from 57.7 in June and 
missed expectations for a more modest dip to 57.4.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: August 4, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 4, 2007 Saturday 11:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 575 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
RBS H1 profit up 11 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Royal Bank of Scotland, the UK bank leading a consortium seeking to buy Dutch 
rival ABN Amro, delivered an 11 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost discipline and a strong performance 
from its investment banking arm.
RBS, the UK's second-biggest bank, said operating profit for the six months to June 30 came in at 5.106 bln stg, up 
11 pct on the same period last year.
British Airways Q1 pretax profit 289 mln stg vs 191 mln
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - British Airways said pretax profit rose to 289 mln stg in the first quarter from 191 
mln stg for the same period last year on flat revenues excluding exchange rates, reflecting the impact of security 
and baggage restrictions on shorthaul and premium transfer traffic.
Operating profit was 263 mln stg against 206 mln, and the operating margin increased to 12 pct from 9.2 pct. BA 
said its target of a 10 pct operating margin for the year remains.
Anglo American to sell Tarmac, return 4 bln usd as H1 profit rises
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Mining giant Anglo American PLC announced the last major disposal of its 
restructuring programme with the auction of industrial metals business Tarmac, alongside rising interim profits and 
a further 4 bln usd in share buybacks.
Chief executive Cynthia Carroll told reporters in a conference call that there has already been 'considerable interest' 
from both trade and private equity buyers for Tarmac, which UBS estimates to be worth 7.8 bln usd.
Tomkins H1 pretax profit rises to 148.9 mln stg but sales fall 7.9 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Tomkins PLC posted a 7.9 pct decline in first-half sales which were hurt by a 
weaker US dollar, lower demand from automotive original equipment in North America as well as continued 
weakness in the US residential housing market.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
The car parts and building products maker said first-half sales fell to 1.50 bn stg from 1.65 bn in 2006. But pretax 
profit rose to 148.9 mln stg from 135.7 mln stg in the same period last year.
Ryanair July passenger numbers 4.76 mln, up 21 pct yr-on-yr
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Budget airline Ryanair Holdings said its passenger numbers increased 21 pct in 
July to 4,760,460 against 3,940,792 for the same month last year. The load factor -- how full its aircraft were -- was 
unchanged at 90 pct.
Ryanair carried 45,262,576 passengers in the 12 months to July 31, and its load factor for the period was 82 pct, it 
said in a statement.
BoE keeps bank rate unchanged at 5.75 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The Bank of England's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee has kept its official 
interest rate unchanged at 5.75 pct.
While the decision was fully expected - all 35 economists polled by Thomson Financial News forecasted no change 
- this was the first time rates had been left on hold in the month of August since 2003.
UK CIPS July services PMI falls to 57.0 from 57.7 in June - sources
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The UK services sector, which accounts for nearly three quarters of the whole 
economy, grew at a slower pace in July than in June, sources said of a key survey.
They said the July business activity purchasing managers' index from the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and 
Supply came in at 57.0, the lowest reading since September last year. The figure decreased from 57.7 in June and 
missed expectations for a more modest dip to 57.4.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: August 4, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 3, 2007 Friday 4:20 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 575 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
RBS H1 profit up 11 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Royal Bank of Scotland, the UK bank leading a consortium seeking to buy Dutch 
rival ABN Amro, delivered an 11 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost discipline and a strong performance 
from its investment banking arm.
RBS, the UK's second-biggest bank, said operating profit for the six months to June 30 came in at 5.106 bln stg, up 
11 pct on the same period last year.
British Airways Q1 pretax profit 289 mln stg vs 191 mln
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - British Airways said pretax profit rose to 289 mln stg in the first quarter from 191 
mln stg for the same period last year on flat revenues excluding exchange rates, reflecting the impact of security 
and baggage restrictions on shorthaul and premium transfer traffic.
Operating profit was 263 mln stg against 206 mln, and the operating margin increased to 12 pct from 9.2 pct. BA 
said its target of a 10 pct operating margin for the year remains.
Anglo American to sell Tarmac, return 4 bln usd as H1 profit rises
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Mining giant Anglo American PLC announced the last major disposal of its 
restructuring programme with the auction of industrial metals business Tarmac, alongside rising interim profits and 
a further 4 bln usd in share buybacks.
Chief executive Cynthia Carroll told reporters in a conference call that there has already been 'considerable interest' 
from both trade and private equity buyers for Tarmac, which UBS estimates to be worth 7.8 bln usd.
Tomkins H1 pretax profit rises to 148.9 mln stg but sales fall 7.9 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Tomkins PLC posted a 7.9 pct decline in first-half sales which were hurt by a 
weaker US dollar, lower demand from automotive original equipment in North America as well as continued 
weakness in the US residential housing market.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
The car parts and building products maker said first-half sales fell to 1.50 bn stg from 1.65 bn in 2006. But pretax 
profit rose to 148.9 mln stg from 135.7 mln stg in the same period last year.
Ryanair July passenger numbers 4.76 mln, up 21 pct yr-on-yr
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Budget airline Ryanair Holdings said its passenger numbers increased 21 pct in 
July to 4,760,460 against 3,940,792 for the same month last year. The load factor -- how full its aircraft were -- was 
unchanged at 90 pct.
Ryanair carried 45,262,576 passengers in the 12 months to July 31, and its load factor for the period was 82 pct, it 
said in a statement.
BoE keeps bank rate unchanged at 5.75 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The Bank of England's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee has kept its official 
interest rate unchanged at 5.75 pct.
While the decision was fully expected - all 35 economists polled by Thomson Financial News forecasted no change 
- this was the first time rates had been left on hold in the month of August since 2003.
UK CIPS July services PMI falls to 57.0 from 57.7 in June - sources
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The UK services sector, which accounts for nearly three quarters of the whole 
economy, grew at a slower pace in July than in June, sources said of a key survey.
They said the July business activity purchasing managers' index from the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and 
Supply came in at 57.0, the lowest reading since September last year. The figure decreased from 57.7 in June and 
missed expectations for a more modest dip to 57.4.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair chief O'Leary repeats calls for BAA break-up
Ryanair chief O'Leary repeats calls for BAA break-up
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 3, 2007 Friday 1:36 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 335 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings chief executive Michael O'Leary today repeated calls for airport operator BAA to be broken up.
A torrent of criticism from airlines and consumers prompted the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) to refer Ferrovial-
owned BAA to the UK's Competition Commission (CC) in March. The CC investigation into the group's activities is 
ongoing, with a decision expected in Dec 2008.
The decision to probe the services of the owner of Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted airports, followed a public 
consultation by the OFT after the watchdog proposed to refer BAA to the commission in December last year.
At a press conference in London this morning O'Leary told reporters BAA should be 'split up because the monopoly 
is damaging British travel.'
'Ryanair would like to see Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted compete against one another because this would force 
them all to improve. If we had real competition between the three there would be more runway capacity and airport 
management would be more responsive to passenger needs,' said the Ryanair boss.
O'Leary singled out Stansted airport -- Ryanair's British hub -- for special criticism, claiming the security systems 
and staffing procedures at the airport were inept.
'A great deal of Ryanair flights at Stansted are delayed because people can't get through security in time. This is 
because all the security machines need to be on and not just 14 out of the 20 and they also need to roster staff in a 
more sensible way because there are often not enough staff working to help people to their flights on time,' said 
O'Leary.
The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), which regulates BAA's activities, also came under fire. O'Leary said the CAA 
was allowing BAA to 'constrain capacity into London' to keep prices high and accused the regulatory regime of 
'working against passengers because they are rewarded for waste.'
O'Leary said London needs at least three more runways in the next five years and revealed Ryanair had an offer to 
build an extra runway at Stansted knocked back.
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
Ryanair chief O'Leary repeats calls for BAA break-up
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 3, 2007 Friday 11:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 575 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
RBS H1 profit up 11 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Royal Bank of Scotland, the UK bank leading a consortium seeking to buy Dutch 
rival ABN Amro, delivered an 11 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost discipline and a strong performance 
from its investment banking arm.
RBS, the UK's second-biggest bank, said operating profit for the six months to June 30 came in at 5.106 bln stg, up 
11 pct on the same period last year.
British Airways Q1 pretax profit 289 mln stg vs 191 mln
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - British Airways said pretax profit rose to 289 mln stg in the first quarter from 191 
mln stg for the same period last year on flat revenues excluding exchange rates, reflecting the impact of security 
and baggage restrictions on shorthaul and premium transfer traffic.
Operating profit was 263 mln stg against 206 mln, and the operating margin increased to 12 pct from 9.2 pct. BA 
said its target of a 10 pct operating margin for the year remains.
Anglo American to sell Tarmac, return 4 bln usd as H1 profit rises
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Mining giant Anglo American PLC announced the last major disposal of its 
restructuring programme with the auction of industrial metals business Tarmac, alongside rising interim profits and 
a further 4 bln usd in share buybacks.
Chief executive Cynthia Carroll told reporters in a conference call that there has already been 'considerable interest' 
from both trade and private equity buyers for Tarmac, which UBS estimates to be worth 7.8 bln usd.
Tomkins H1 pretax profit rises to 148.9 mln stg but sales fall 7.9 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Tomkins PLC posted a 7.9 pct decline in first-half sales which were hurt by a 
weaker US dollar, lower demand from automotive original equipment in North America as well as continued 
weakness in the US residential housing market.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
The car parts and building products maker said first-half sales fell to 1.50 bn stg from 1.65 bn in 2006. But pretax 
profit rose to 148.9 mln stg from 135.7 mln stg in the same period last year.
Ryanair July passenger numbers 4.76 mln, up 21 pct yr-on-yr
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Budget airline Ryanair Holdings said its passenger numbers increased 21 pct in 
July to 4,760,460 against 3,940,792 for the same month last year. The load factor -- how full its aircraft were -- was 
unchanged at 90 pct.
Ryanair carried 45,262,576 passengers in the 12 months to July 31, and its load factor for the period was 82 pct, it 
said in a statement.
BoE keeps bank rate unchanged at 5.75 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The Bank of England's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee has kept its official 
interest rate unchanged at 5.75 pct.
While the decision was fully expected - all 35 economists polled by Thomson Financial News forecasted no change 
- this was the first time rates had been left on hold in the month of August since 2003.
UK CIPS July services PMI falls to 57.0 from 57.7 in June - sources
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The UK services sector, which accounts for nearly three quarters of the whole 
economy, grew at a slower pace in July than in June, sources said of a key survey.
They said the July business activity purchasing managers' index from the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and 
Supply came in at 57.0, the lowest reading since September last year. The figure decreased from 57.7 in June and 
missed expectations for a more modest dip to 57.4.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
Brussels shares TFN at a glance
Brussels shares TFN at a glance
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 3, 2007 Friday 7:36 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 301 words
Body
Shares are expected to open slightly higher, buoyed by yesterday's performance on Wall Street, driven by positive 
news on corporate earnings and the job market.
Last night, the Bel 20 was up 14.48 points, or 0.34 pct, at 4,326.28.
FORTHCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
-Nothing scheduled
MONDAY
-Fortis EGM on capital increase to fund ABN Amro takeover bid (0715 GMT)
-Telenet H1 results press conference (1300 GMT)
-Telenet H1 results (1540 GMT)
-Belgian 3 months to June industrial output (2200 GMT)
-Belgian 3 months to June industrial orders (2200 GMT)
COMPANY NEWS
-Compagnie Nationale a Portefeuille (CNP) posts a 49 pct rise in H1 preliminary net profit boosted by capital gains.
Net profit rose to 147.2 mln eur from 96.0 mln a year earlier, boosted by 28 mln eur in capital profit.
-Dexia says 'an overwhelming majority' of its Dexia Bank Nederland customers accepts the Duisenberg 
arrangement; the settlement follows a dispute over allegedly misleading information on the bank's equity lease 
products.
-Mobistar's Voxmobile was not late on compliance with the EU's new roaming regulation, the European 
Commission says.
Brussels shares TFN at a glance
-Barclays CEO 'confident' ABN Amro bid will succeed
-Barclays acquisition of ABN Amro set for EU clearance - sources
TODAY'S PRESS
-Deminor Active Governance Fund and other ex-minority shareholders say Suez paid too little for Electrabel after 
Belgian government coalition partners agreed to keep five out of seven nuclear power sites in the country open, 
raising prospect of billions of eur extra profit (De Tijd)
-Suez unit Electrabel denies Belgian energy regulator Creg's claim that it set artificially low prices for national gas 
ahead of energy market liberalisation.
-Charleroi airport overhaul will be complete by January 2008 and will see Ryanair double its presence there, says 
airport spokesman (L'Echo)
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair says passenger traffic rose 21 percent in July
Ryanair says passenger traffic rose 21 percent in July
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 3, 2007 Friday 4:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 205 words
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC, Europe's largest discount airline, said Friday that passenger numbers rose 21 percent in 
July.
The airline carried more than 4.7 million passengers in July compared with about 3.9 million in July 2006, the 
company said in a statement. For the 12 months to July 31, the company said carried nearly 45.3 million 
passengers.
The July load factor or the number of passengers carried as a proportion of the number of seats available was flat 
at 90 percent.
Ryanair shares rose 0.4 percent to €5.43 (US$7.42) in Dublin.
The airline, founded in 1985, employs 4,800 people at 20 bases, and operates more than 500 routes. It sells tickets 
mainly via the Internet, does not permit passengers to transfer baggage, and charges extra for all services, 
including water and baggage check-in.
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary is challenging European competition authorities' refusal to authorize an attempted 
Ryanair takeover of its major Irish competitor, Aer Lingus.
EU officials ruled in June that Ryanair's hostile bid which is opposed by more than 40 percent of shareholder was 
likely to produce an Irish monopoly. Ryanair pledged to sue to overturn the ruling, but its case isn't expected to be 
heard until 2009 at the earliest.
Load-Date: August 4, 2007
End of Document
Dolmen: Equities to enjoy favourable H2
Dolmen: Equities to enjoy favourable H2
Business World (Digest) 
August 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 315 words
Highlight: The outlook for equity markets for the second half of 2007 remains extremely favourable, Dolmen says.
Body
The outlook for equity markets for the second half of 2007 remains extremely favourable, according to Dolmen 
Stockbrokers.
Dolmen says in its third quarter strategy review that it has upgraded its 12-month price targets for CRH (E40.00, up 
from E37.00 previously) and Greencore (E5.85, up from to E4.80 previously).
The broker said the changes reflect "upward revisions to earnings forecasts during Q2 2007 and/or higher sector 
average multiples".
 At the same time it has reduced its forecasts for C and C and Ryanair to E9.35, down from E13.00, and E4.80, 
from E5.85 respectively. In the food sector, Dolmen said it continues to favour Greencore, IAWS and Kerry. 
However, it added that it is "cautious" on Fyffes following its recent profit warning. The broker has also predicted 
tough times ahead for the airline sector, in light of the recently agreed Open Skies agreement. "Against the 
headwinds of increased competition, over-capacity, and yield compression, we expect the sector to underperform 
the broader market in the coming months. Accordingly we reduce our weighting for the sector to neutral, until we 
get greater clarity on the above issues," Dolmen says. "with earnings expected to remain strong, fuelled by strong 
global and emerging market demand, a strong US consumer as evidenced by strong labour markets and strong 
retail sales as well as a recovering US economy." Dolmen adds that it continues to promote its long-held positive 
equity theme. "We believe that global growth will continue to be strong, and while inflation may be raised as a 
concern from time to time, this should not be taken as a sign to panic, since it is almost impossible to have growth 
without an element of inflation. Meanwhile, Dolmen continues that it expects the euro to trade at around USD1.3500 
for the next quarter. Against the UK pound, it forecasts that the euro will trade at around £0.6750.
Load-Date: August 7, 2007
Dolmen: Equities to enjoy favourable H2
End of Document
ISEQ down 1pc, AIB and BoI fall sharply
ISEQ down 1pc, AIB and BoI fall sharply
Business World (Digest) 
August 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 508 words
Highlight: Shares in AIB and Bank of Ireland slumped by another 2pc today.
Body
Shares in AIB and Bank of Ireland slumped by another 2pc today as the Dublin market ended a volatile week on a 
low note.
At the close, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 99.61 points to 8,595.230.
Trading was sluggish was sluggish ahead of the bank holiday weekend in Dublin, with less than 20 million shares 
changing hands.
 The market had remained largely unchanged for much of the session, however, a sluggish opening on Wall Street 
sent shares tumbling into the red. Leading US stocks fell after weak jobs data left investors disappointed. The 
Labour Department said today that the US unemployment rate rose to its highest level in six months during July. 
The weakness stemmed from a sharp drop in construction, and slight drops in manufacturing and retail jobs, 
dealers said. Back in Dublin, the financials were back in negative territory. AIB was the biggest faller in the sector, 
down 51c to 19.05, while Bank of Ireland slipped 31c to 13.89. Meanwhile, Irish Life and Permanent was 37c lower 
at 18.04 and Anglo Irish Bank was down 27c to at 18.35. The banks' sluggish performance was matched by shares 
in the construction sector, with Grafton down 41c to 9.71, Kingspan down 5c to 17.55 and McInerney down 1c to 
2.31. Even CRH fell lower, down 5c to 33.02, despite Dolmen Stockbrokers upgrading their 12-month price target 
for the building materials giant to E40.00, up from E37.00 previously. Greencore was another stock to receive an 
upgrade from the broker. Dolmen's price target for the food ingredients company now stands at E5.85, up from 
E4.80 previously. The news failed to lift the company's share price today, however, closing 4c lower at 5.00. On 
more positive note, continued uncertainty about the future ownership of Irish Continental Group appears to be doing 
the company's share price no harm. The shares soared by 5pc, or 100c, today to close at 24.00. Shares in the 
ferries operator are currently 60pc higher than they were at the turn of the year and 24pc higher than when 
management confirmed that they submitted a buyout bid for the company back in March. Other shares in the black 
today included housebuilder Abbey, up 10c to 9.85, business support services group DCC, up 77c to 22.87, and 
ISEQ down 1pc, AIB and BoI fall sharply
FBD Holdings, up 66c to 28.21. IAWS was up 40c to 15.50, while Waterford Wedgwood jumped 12pc higher at 
0.03. Meanwhile, Ryanair was up 2c to 5.43 after the airline posted a 21pc increase in passenger numbers for the 
month of July and a load factor of 90pc - unchanged from the previous month. On the downside, drinks group 
CandC slumped another 3pc, or 19c, to 6.20, while drug maker Elan fell 46c to 13.35. Software group Iona 
Technologies dropped 30c to 2.90, Origin dipped 8c to 3.85, and Qualceram Shires fell 4c to 1.97. Shares in paper 
packaging firm Smurfit Kappa closed 12c lower at 17.36. Fruit distributor Fyffes was off 0.5pc at 0.84 after one of its 
biggest rivals - Chiquita - reported a 10pc drop in second quarter profits. However, the company said its expects to 
show year on year growth in the coming quarters.
Load-Date: August 7, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair July passenger numbers 4.76 mln, up 21 pct yr-on-yr
Ryanair July passenger numbers 4.76 mln, up 21 pct yr-on-yr
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 3, 2007 Friday 10:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 59 words
Body
Budget airline Ryanair Holdings said its passenger numbers increased 21 pct in July to 4,760,460 against 
3,940,792 for the same month last year. The load factor -- how full its aircraft were -- was unchanged at 90 pct.
Ryanair carried 45,262,576 passengers in the 12 months to July 31, and its load factor for the period was 82 pct, it 
said in a statement.
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
Budapest shares TFN at a glance outlook
Budapest shares TFN at a glance outlook
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 3, 2007 Friday 9:16 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 161 words
Body
Leading shares opened down despite gains in other markets, as oil and gas company MOL counteracted gains in 
other blue chips.
At 9.51 am the leading BUX index was trading down 0.20 pct at 28,940.98.
In the last session, the BUX index closed up 0.5 pct at 29,000.00. Trading volume was over 42 bln forints, 
compared to a daily average this year of 38 bln.
FORTHCOMING EVENTS
Tomorrow
-The central statistical office KSH releases housing starts data for H1
-FHB Nyrt reports second-quarter earnings
Monday
-Central statistical office KSH releases data on commercial accommodation for June
COMPANY NEWS
-Mortgage Bank FHB H1 net profit 2.8 bln forints vs 3.7 bln
TODAY'S PRESS
-Hungarian-Japanese architects win design contract for 146 bln forint government district (Vilaggazdasag)
-Hungarian government asks EU to release corn stores for animal feed as Hungarian crops hit by drought 
(Vilaggazdasag)
-Discount airline Ryanair starts Budapest-Frankfurt route from October (Napi Gazdasag)
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
Budapest shares TFN at a glance outlook
End of Document
Ryanair fills 90pc of seats in July
Ryanair fills 90pc of seats in July
Business World (Digest) 
August 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 47 words
Highlight: Ryanair passenger numbers increased 21pc in July to 4,760,460
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair passenger numbers increased 21pc in July to 4,760,460 while its load factor- percentage of 
seats filled- remained unchanged at 90pc.
The airline carried 45,262,576 passengers in the 12 months to July 31, and its load factor for the period was 82pc, it 
said. 
Load-Date: August 7, 2007
End of Document
EasyJet follows Ryanair on baggage fees
EasyJet follows Ryanair on baggage fees
Business World (Digest) 
August 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 76 words
Highlight: EasyJet is to follow Ryanair's lead and charge for all luggage placed in an aircraft's hold.
Body
British budget airline, EasyJet, is to follow Ryanair's lead and charge for all luggage placed in an aircraft's hold.
The airline's new policy will see passengers charged £2 for every bag put in the plane's hold.
Previously, charges were levied only on every second and subsequent piece of hold luggage.
 The carrier, which is Europe's second-largest budget airline, said it will still allow carry-on bags up to 55 by 40 by 
20 centimetres, with no limit on weight.
Load-Date: August 7, 2007
End of Document
EasyJet expands Belfast operations
EasyJet expands Belfast operations
Business World (Digest) 
August 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 113 words
Highlight: British no-frills airline, EasyJet, is to introduce four new European routes from Belfast.
Body
British no-frills airline, EasyJet, is to introduce four new European routes from Belfast.
The new routes from Belfast International Airport will be to Barcelona, Gdansk, Prague and Venice.
The move comes after Ryanair and Aer Lingus both said that they plan to set up and expand operations from 
Belfast.
 The new routes will increase the number of EasyJet destinations on offer from Belfast to 24. The airline will base 
an additional plane at Belfast, bringing the number of aircraft there to six. EasyJet says it expects to carry over 
140,000 passengers on these routes in the first 12 months. It has also increased frequencies on both its Krakow 
and Paris services from Belfast.
Load-Date: August 7, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair tells BA to remove fuel charges
Ryanair tells BA to remove fuel charges
Business World (Digest) 
August 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 124 words
Highlight: Ryanair called British Airways  to remove their fuel surcharges.
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair today called on both British Airways and Virgin Atlantic to "immediately" remove their fuel 
surcharges.
The carrier claims that it is the only airline to guarantee its passenger will not now or ever levy a fuel surcharge.
Speaking at a press conference this morning, Ryanair's CEO, Michael O'Leary said, "Ryanair's fares are 
significantly lower than BA's and yet we guarantee no fuel surcharges. If we can do it, then there is no justification 
for BA's fuel surcharges, which are just a hidden fare increase, which should be included in BA's fares. Passengers 
have no choice in avoiding these unfair fuel surcharges which are just another rip off of the travelling public by 
British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and others." 
Load-Date: August 7, 2007
End of Document
Iberia 2nd-quarter net profit rises 75 percent
Iberia 2nd-quarter net profit rises 75 percent 
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 2, 2007 Thursday 8:59 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 277 words
Dateline: MADRID Spain
Body
Spain's largest airline, Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA, said Thursday its second-quarter earnings rose more 
than 75 percent due to improved cost controls.
Iberia posted net profit of €62.6 million ($85US.5 million), compared to €35.7 million a year earlier. The airline is 
currently the object of a preliminary €3.41 billion ($4US.65 billion) bid from private equity firm TPG, formerly known 
as the Texas Pacific Group.
Revenue fell 2.6 percent to €1.36 billion ($1US.77 billion) due to the elimination of unprofitable short-haul flights.
Iberia shares rose 0.9 percent to €3.45 ($4US.71), in Madrid, below TPG's non-binding bid of €3.60 ($4US.91) per 
share.
The airline said operating costs dropped 3.2 percent during the same comparative period to €1.3 billion ($1US.77 
billion), backed by staff reductions and more efficient fuel consumption as the company continued to renew its 
aircraft fleet.
Iberia has implemented drastic measures to lower labor and operational costs, targeting a reduction of 8 percent to 
10 percent by the end of 2008.
Iberia's profitability has been under intense pressure from low-fare airlines easyJet PLC and Ryanair Holdings PLC 
after both companies boosted operations in Spain in recent months.
The company said its staff has been reduced by 6.6 percent, boosting productivity by 9.9 percent during the same 
comparative period.
Iberia is also reducing short-haul flights and focusing on long-haul routes and business-class services to widen 
profit margins.
TPG and its consortium partners, which include major Iberia shareholder British Airways PLC, are studying Iberia's 
books with a view to making a possible binding bid for the airline.
Iberia 2nd-quarter net profit rises 75 percent
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
Iberia 2nd-quarter net profit rises 75 percent
Iberia 2nd-quarter net profit rises 75 percent
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 2, 2007 Thursday 11:23 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 240 words
Dateline: MADRID Spain
Body
Spain's largest airline, Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA, said Thursday its second-quarter earnings rose more 
than 75 percent from improved cost controls.
Iberia posted net profit of 62.6 million euros ($85.5 million), compared with 35.7 million euros a year earlier. The 
airline is the target of a preliminary 3.41 billion euros ($4.65 billion) bid from private equity firm TPG, formerly known 
as the Texas Pacific Group.
Revenue fell 2.6 percent to 1.36 billion euros ($1.77 billion) as the airline pared down unprofitable short-haul flights.
Iberia shares rose 0.9 percent to 3.45 euros ($4.71), in Madrid, still below TPG's nonbinding bid of 3.60 euros 
($4.91) per share.
The airline said operating costs dropped 3.2 percent for the second quarter, to 1.3 billion euros ($1.77 billion), 
mostly from staff cuts and more efficient fuel consumption as the company renews its aircraft fleet.
Iberia's profitability has been under intense pressure from low-fare airlines easyJet PLC and Ryanair Holdings PLC 
after both companies boosted operations in Spain recently.
The company said its staff has been reduced by 6.6 percent, boosting productivity by 9.9 percent during the same 
comparative period.
Iberia is also reducing short-haul flights and focusing on long-haul routes and business-class services to widen 
profit margins.
TPG and its consortium partners, which include major Iberia shareholder British Airways PLC, are studying Iberia's 
books.
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
Iberia 2nd-quarter net profit rises 75 percent
End of Document
ISEQ soars 2.5pc as market rebounds
ISEQ soars 2.5pc as market rebounds
Business World (Digest) 
August 2, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 525 words
Highlight: The Dublin market soared by more than 2.5pc today as bargain hunters came back to the market.
Body
The Dublin market soared by more than 2.5pc today as bargain hunters came back to the market to pick up cheap 
shares in the wake of the recent E9bn sell-off.
The ISEQ index of Irish shares ended the day 212.72 points higher at 8,694.840.
The positive trading in Dublin came on the back of a strong performance by other major bourses around Europe. 
 Investors were also re-assured by a second straight session of gains on Wall Street, following the release of some 
solid readings on corporate earnings and the US job market. However, dealers cautioned that it was impossible to 
predict what turn trading might take in the coming days, with the market still jumpy about the US mortgage market. 
Back in Dublin, financial shares led the charge with AIB up 64c to 19.61, Irish Life and Permanent up 35c to 18.30 
and Bank of Ireland up 30c to 14.35. Anglo Irish Bank was 22c higher at 14.02. The strong performance by the 
banks was matched by construction stocks, with CRH leading the way, up 99c to 33.14. Elsewhere in the sector 
Kingspan was soared 81c to 17.60, while McInerney jumped 11c to 2.32 and Grafton edged up 20c to 10.09. Paddy 
Power was another notable gainer, buoyed by a solid trading update from UK peer William Hill. Shares in the Irish 
bookmaker ended the session 55c higher at 24.00. Other notable movers included Irish Continental Group, up 50c 
to 23.00, Veris, up 20c to 3.70, and IAWS, up 44c to 15.10. Meanwhile, bargain hunters also moved in on C and C 
after shares in the drinks group plummeted by more than 27pc earlier in the week. On Tuesday, the company 
issued its second severe profit warning in less than three weeks, after bad weather in the UK and Ireland hit sales 
of its flagship cider brands, Bulmers and Magners, during July. The company said first-half operating profit is now 
expected to fall 35pc.In a further blow, it confirmed today that it is to cut up to 70 jobs due to the recent slump. 
Nevertheless, the stock rose 15c to 6.40 today. Ryanair also continued to make steady progress after it posted a 
strong set of first quarter figures earlier in the week. Shares ended the session today up 11c to 5.41 - their highest 
level in over two months. Elsewhere, Blackrock International Land closed 4pc, or 2c, higher at 0.47 after the 
property group confirmed the sale of two of its Dutch assets for E4.8m. The company will make a net profit of 
ISEQ soars 2.5pc as market rebounds
E380,000 from the sale of two office buildings in Nijmegen in The Netherlands. The properties being sold are 
operated as multi-tenanted serviced offices and are part of a larger portfolio of office buildings acquired by 
Blackrock in The Netherlands in December 2006 for E46.5 million. "An attractive offer was received for the buildings 
from Renpart Vastgoed Group, a Dutch property investment company specialising in this type of asset," it said. 
Commenting on the transaction, Blackrock Chairman, Carl McCann said: "We are pleased to have concluded this 
profitable disposal of two properties in our Dutch investment portfolio within a short period of their acquisition. We 
continue to pursue opportunities to increase our assets in line with our previously stated objectives."
Load-Date: August 6, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ rebounds 1.5pc, banks lead the way
ISEQ rebounds 1.5pc, banks lead the way
Business World (Digest) 
August 2, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 164 words
Highlight: The Dublin market moved sharply higher this morning with financial and construction shares leading the 
way.
Body
The Dublin market moved sharply higher in the opening stages this morning with financial and construction shares 
leading the way.
Just after 1030, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was up 140.13 points to 8,622.25.
The positive opening here came hot on the heels of a positive close on Wall Street overnight.
 AIB was one of the biggest movers, jumping 44c to 19.41, while Irish Life and Permanent tacked on 26c to 18.22 
and Bank of Ireland added on 22c to 14.31. Anglo Irish Bank bucked the positive trend, slipping 10c to 13.70. 
Construction shares also came out the traps strongly, with CRH up 73c to 32.88, Grafton up 18c to 10.07 and 
Kingspan up 11 to 16.90. McInerney was 5c higher at 2.26. Other notable movers included Paddy Power, up 65c to 
24.10, Smurfit Kappa, up 23c to 17.35, and Ryanair, up 15c to 5.45. Meanwhile, bargain hunters also moved in on 
C and C after shares in the drinks group plummeted by more than 27pc earlier in the week. The stock was up 15c 
to 6.40 this morning.
Load-Date: August 6, 2007
End of Document
Lufthansa plans Internet access for long flights
Lufthansa plans Internet access for long flights
Associated Press Financial Wire
August 1, 2007 Wednesday 3:22 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 525 words
Byline: By ANDY PASZTOR, The Wall Street Journal
Body
Deutsche Lufthansa AG is poised to join with a team headed by cellular-telephone giant T-Mobile to offer 
broadband Internet access and wireless email to its long-haul passengers, industry officials said.
Seeking to re-establish its leadership in onboard connectivity, these people said, Lufthansa has no immediate plans 
to allow long-haul passengers to talk on their own portable phones.
The German airline has made a preliminary decision to establish partnerships and intends to launch an improved 
version of in-flight Internet connections by early 2008. The earlier offering, dubbed Connexion and provided by 
Boeing Co., was championed by Lufthansa but collapsed late last year after steadily piling up large losses.
The expanded replacement system costing the partners an estimated $100 million will allow passengers to use 
laptops to surf the Web, receive text messages on cellular phones and send emails on hand-held communication 
devices, according to industry officials. With other European carriers scrambling to roll out cellphone service on 
short-haul routes, Lufthansa seems headed in the opposite direction.
Without commenting on the status of its overall plans, airline spokesman Michael Lamberty said Lufthansa 
passenger surveys showed that "the vast majority told us they don't want this feature" because of the noise and 
intrusive telephone ringing it could entail.
Industry experts consider the planned service to be the most capable and flexible to bring broadband-and-wireless 
services into jetliner cabins.
Spokeswomen for Lufthansa and T-Mobile, a unit of Deutsche Telekom AG, declined to comment on the status of 
discussions. Lufthansa, which had more than 65 long-haul jets outfitted with Boeing's Connexion hardware, has 
said the service was highly popular with business travelers.
European low-fare carrier Ryanair Holdings PLC is looking to join forces with other partners and technologies to 
eventually offer cellphone calling across much of its short-haul fleet. Air France-KLM SA, British Midland Airways 
Ltd., TAP Air Portugal and Emirates Airline are among the carriers considering a future mix of onboard voice, 
messaging and Internet services.
Lufthansa plans Internet access for long flights
In the U.S., where regulatory hurdles continue to restrict cellphone uses on planes, Southwest Airlines Co. and 
Alaska Air Group Inc. appear to be among the furthest along in analyzing options to provide wireless services.
Lufthansa's plans are being shaped partly by hard-to-predict social factors, such as passenger reactions to 
anticipated noise and interruptions stemming from airborne cellphones. On long-haul routes, the concept of voice 
services "really seems to have slowed down recently," primarily due "to worries about how premium passengers 
would react," said Tim Farrar, a satellite-industry consultant in Menlo Park, Calif.
While Lufthansa's own plans are tentative and subject to approval by the parent company's board, people familiar 
with the carrier's strategy said cost-sharing and implementation talks are under way with T-Mobile, Luxembourg 
satellite-operator SES Global SA and equipment supplier Viasat Inc., of Carlsbad, Calif. SES and Viasat declined to 
comment.
Load-Date: August 2, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 0805 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 0805 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
August 1, 2007 Wednesday 8:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 556 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
HBOS H1 profit up 13 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - UK bank HBOS PLC reported a better-than-expected 13 pct increase in first half 
profit, buoyed by strong lending to businesses and tight cost controls.
HBOS, the UK's fourth biggest bank, said underlying pretax profit for the six months to June 30 came in at 2.962 bln 
stg, up from 2.612 bln stg in the same period last year.
BA fined 121.5 mln stg by OFT for collusion over long-haul fuel surcharges
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - British Airways PLC has been fined 121.5 mln stg by the Office of Fair Trade 
(OFT) after admitting collusion over the price of long-haul passenger fuel surcharges.
The penalty will be the highest ever imposed by the OFT for infringements of competition law, and demonstrates 
the determination of the OFT to deal vigorously with anti-competitive behaviour.
Dow Chemical moots ICI counterbid as Akzo shareholder says bid too high - report
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Dow Chemical is considering making a counterbid for Imperial Chemical Industries 
PLC, as a key shareholder of declared bidder Akzo Nobel indicated the Dutch chemical company's offer for its UK 
rival is too high, newspapers reported.
Dow has has asked Lazard to advise on options for gatecrashing Akzo Nobel NV's 7.8 bln stg bid, the Daily 
Telegraph cited people familiar with the matter as saying.
UK retailers post steady growth in July but summer sales below expectations
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - UK retailers enjoyed steady growth during July but their expectations for strong 
summer sales failed to materialise, the UK's biggest business lobby said today.
The Confederation of British Industry found that a balance of +18 pct of retailers said sales were higher in July than 
in the same period a year ago, up slightly from +17 in June.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 0805 BST
Ryanair sees FY net profits up 10 pct, H2 yields down 5-10 pct vs last yr
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - No-frills airline Ryanair Holdings said it expects full year net profits to grow by 10 
pct against the 5 pct previously forecast, but said it expected second half yields to be down by as much as 5-10 pct 
against last year.
The Dublin-based carrier, whose post-tax first quarter profits rose 20 pct to 138.9 mln eur, said a cut in capacity on 
non-profitable winter routes and the significant airport savings from this would enable the increase in guidance.
Glaxosmithkline's Avandia drug should remain on market - FDA committee
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The US Food and Drug Administration's advisory committee voted 22 to 1 
yesterday that Glaxosmithkline PLC could continue to sell its Avandia diabetes drug in the US.
The committee voted that the data suggests some ischemic risk with Avandia but declined to comment on the 
comparative risk of Avandia to other oral anti-diabetic medicines.
Lloyds TSB H1 profit up 15 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - UK bank Lloyds TSB said it is selling insurance unit Abbey Life to Deutsche Bank 
for 977 mln stg in cash as it reported a 15 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost controls and lower bad 
debts.
Lloyds, the UK's fifth-biggest bank, said pretax profit excluding volatility -- its preferred measure of its performance -
- for the six months to June 30 came in at 2.010 bln stg, up from 1.750 bln stg in the same period last year.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: August 1, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down 2pc as banks take a hammering
ISEQ down 2pc as banks take a hammering
Business World (Digest) 
August 1, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 232 words
Highlight: Sharp gains in drug maker Elan failed to stop the Dublin market falling back into the red this morning.
Body
Sharp gains in drug maker Elan failed to stop the Dublin market falling back into the red this morning as financial 
shares gave back virtually all of yesterday's gains.
Just after 1000, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 179.35 points to 8,384.04.
Irish shares soared by around 4pc yesterday, however, those gains were all-but wiped out in the opening minutes 
this morning following a fresh dip on Wall Street overnight.
 Leading US shares plummeted after mortgage lender American Home Mortgage Investment warned that it might 
have to liquidate some of its assets due to difficulties in the US housing sector. Unsurprisingly, the fresh bout of bad 
news surrounding the US mortgage market sent shares in Ireland's banks sharply lower. AIB dropped 64c to 18.61 
after it posted solid first half profit growth, but cautioned that mortgage applications had fallen by 25pc. Elsewhere in 
the sector, Anglo Irish Bank fell 60c to 13.25, while Irish Life and Permanent slumped 63c to 17.22 and Bank of 
Ireland dropped 47c to 13.55. Those falls outweighed a strong start by Elan after a regulatory advisory committee in 
the US recommended approval of its Tysabri drug as a treatment for Crohn's disease. The positive news lifted 
shares in the company by 6pc, or 70c, to 14.01. Other notable movers this morning included CRH, down 75c to 
32.10, Grafton, down 43c to 9.71, and Ryanair, down 18c to 5.13.
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ ends volatile session 81pts lower
ISEQ ends volatile session 81pts lower
Business World (Digest) 
August 1, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 480 words
Highlight: The Dublin market ended a volatile session more than one half of a percent lower today.
Body
The Dublin market ended a volatile session more than one half of a percent lower today as yet more falls in the 
financial sector outweighed sharp gains in Elan.
In the opening minutes of the session today, the ISEQ slumped more than 2pc following heavy losses on Wall 
Street overnight. 
By lunchtime the market had clawed itself back up by as much as 1pc, however, a negative opening in the US soon 
sent shares tumbling back into the red.
 By today's close, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 81.27 points to 8,482.120. Leading stocks on Wall 
Street fell as investors grappled with continued worries about US home loans and the credit market and fresh data 
on housing and manufacturing. Adding to the market's woes, oil prices touched new highs following inventory data. 
The rising price of crude increases the threat of inflation. Back in Dublin, just as they did during last week's E9bn 
sell-off, banks bore the brunt of the falls after AIB today posted strong first profits but confirmed a 25pc drop in 
mortgage applications. The institution announced a 17pc jump in profits to just over E1.3bn for the six months to the 
end of June. The results were better than expected and prompted Goodbody to raise its full year guidance for the 
bank by 2c to 208.6c. AIB also upped its target for the full year 2007 to low teen percentage growth, from low 
double digit previously. Shares in AIB ended the session 32c lower at 18.93. Elsewhere in the sector, Anglo Irish 
Bank was down 20c to 13.65, while Irish Life and Permanent edged up 9c to 17.95 and Bank of Ireland tacked on 
3c to 14.05. The falls in AIB and Bank of Ireland countered a strong performance by Elan. Shares in the drug maker 
soared by 5.5pc, or 73c, to 13.95 after a regulatory advisory committee in the US recommended approval of its 
Tysabri drug as a treatment for Crohn's disease. Shares in the construction sector also put in a sluggish 
performance with CRH down 73c to 32.15, Grafton down 25c to 9.89, Kingspan down 86c to 16.78 and McInerney 
down 3c to 2.20. Other notable fallers included Kerry Group, down 74c to 18.79, Newcourt, down 5c to 1.60, Paddy 
Power, down 10c to 23.45, and Irish Continental Group, down 125c to 22.50. Meanwhile, Ryanair slipped 2c to 5.29 
ISEQ ends volatile session 81pts lower
on profit taking after it earlier this week posted record first quarter profits. Elsewhere, CandC made a slight recovery 
from Tuesday's 27pc slump, climbing 4pc, or 24c, to 6.24. Over E740m was wiped off the value of the 
Bulmers/Magners manufacturer after the company issued its second profit warning in less than three weeks. 
Management at CandC said sales of its cider brands were down 30pc in July. Bad weather in the UK and Ireland 
and increased competition in the UK were cited as the main reasons for the poor performance. Other notable 
gainers included First Derivatives, up 27c to 3.97, Fyffes, up 4c to 0.86, and Siteserv, up 9c to 0.72.
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
Wednesday Papers: tips and comment
Wednesday Papers: tips and comment
Citywire
August 1, 2007 Wednesday 6:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 496 words
Body
Comment on Dow Jones, Lloyds TSB, SABMiller, Woolworths, St James's Place, Greggs, Taylor Wimpey, Ryanair, 
EMI and C&C.
FTLex Column: * Dow Jones succumbs - once Rupert Murdoch had lured the Bancrofts on to the battlefield with his 
aggressive $60-a-share offer for Dow Jones, they did not stand much of a chance * Sub-Saharan markets - 
investors should take note of the extent of financial sector reform in Nigeria and the significant progress made by 
sub-Saharan economies * Lloyd TSB's future - it felt like the Hallejuah Chorus should have been playing when 
Lloyd TSB raised its dividend for the first time in five years * GM and Ford bounce - General Motors has reported 
quarterly earnings about double the consensus forecast, helping to fuel a slight bounce in the broader equity market 
* Citadel's appetite - forget vulture funds that feed on the carcasses of dying companies. Citadel is proving to be 
more of a whale, singly swallowing them whole * Singapore's property - Singapore is a property development 
heaven and CapitaLand is benefiting more than most.
Lombard (p.18): * Amstrad: Murdoch Junior wisely shows Sir Alan Sugar small mercy - Ryanair: O'Leary's 
masterstroke - Lessons for EMI
Other comment: * Interview Sir David Walker and his review of private equity industry (p.3) - How Russia is 
reasserting itself (p.9) - Consolidation looms in bulk shipping sector (p.22) - Amec in focus after upbeat Dresdner 
Kleinwort review (p.38) - Rumours of a deal for MeDaVince (p.38) - Pennon buoyed on takeover talk (p.38)
THE TIMESTempus: * SABMiller a core holding - Hold Woolworths - Buy St James's Place
Business Commentary: * The Lloyds TSB dividend is a sacred cash cow - BAA's hard lesson - Amstrad: Sir Alan 
Sugar is no shareholder idol
Other comment: * Expect upgrades for Corin Group later in the year - Probability a tiddler to watch
DAILY TELEGRAPHQuestor: * Buy Lloyds TSB - Hold Greggs
Comment: * 10 flights to France at risk as Ryanair takes on BAA - EMI deal too important to worry over a point - 
Delta Two needs Sainsbury family on side to succeed
Other comment: * Poor ice cream season melts brokers' faith in Unilever
Wednesday Papers: tips and comment
THE INDEPENDENTInvestment Column: * Buy Taylor Wimpey - Sell C&C - Hold Greggs
Outlook: * Dow Jones: Murdoch looking beyond Wall Street Journal deal - A hollow victory for GlaxoSmithKline - 
HMV: CD's demise very much exaggerated
Other comment: * Mystery of David Cameron's chief fundraiser Lord Harris and his Commons pass - Chinese stake 
news boosts BG Group
THE GUARDIANViewpoint: * Hedges bend as strong winds blow - Capital news from Lloyds TSB - C&C put on ice 
again
Other comment: * Hopes of feasibility study on its copper mining programme underpin Alexander Mining - 
Philippines licence hopes lift Metals Exploration
DAILY MAIL * China fuels run of buying in BG Group
DAILY EXPRESS * Talk of a Philippines licensing deal for metals Exploration - Hopes of a major deal for 
Bioprogress
DAILY MIRRO * Tesco sinks its teeth into dental insurance.
Load-Date: August 4, 2007
End of Document
Heathrow and Stansted under fire for 'appalling' standards of service
Heathrow and Stansted under fire for 'appalling' standards of service
Financial Times (London, England)
August 1, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 2
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1
Length: 384 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE and BOB SHERWOOD
Body
BAA's stewardship of London's airports was coming under mounting criticism yesterday after Ken Livingstone said 
Heathrow "shamed" the capital, while the head of Ryanair said the service standard at Stansted was "nothing short 
of appalling".
The company was also rounded on by Giovanni Bisignani, director-general of the International Air Transport 
Association, the global trade association for airlines, who said BAA "continues to deliver embarrassingly low service 
levels by failing to invest in appropriate equipment and staff to meet demand".
Just days after Kitty Ussher, the new City minister, told the Financial Times that the "hassle" of Heathrow was 
undermining London's status as a financial centre, the mayor also joined the fray saying: "Heathrow does shame 
London. It is typical of the English short-termism, lack of planning, lack of investment."
The problems of Heathrow were raised by business leaders at a meeting with Gordon Brown last year and are also 
likely to feature at the first meeting of his new business council in the autumn. Yesterday, Sir Thomas Harris, vice-
chairman of Standard Chartered Capital Markets, said Heathrow's facilities were "clearly not fit for the purpose as 
they were designed for a different age" and could no longer cope with the passenger numbers.
Michael O' Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, rounded on the delays at security and immigration at Stansted.
He added that BAA provided "abject facilities, a third-rate service and charges extortionate prices, particularly at 
Stansted".
Many of the 17 security machines were regularly un-manned in peak hours and understaffing at passport control 
caused long queues and frequent passenger delays, he said.
Ryanair has frequently called for the break-up of the BAA London airports monopoly, which includes Heathrow, 
Gatwick and Stansted. The outcry against the group has already triggered the launch of an investigation by the 
Competition Commission.
Heathrow and Stansted under fire for 'appalling' standards of service
BAA said Ryanair's attack on Stansted charges was "complete nonsense". It said: "We do staff up the security lines 
fully, when needed. We take our passenger forecasts from the airlines."
On Heathrow it added: "We are not deaf to the comments and concerns of business leaders and others.We have a 
plan to transform Heathrow, and it starts with the opening of Terminal 5."
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
End of Document
Heathrow and Stansted under fire for 'appalling' standards
Heathrow and Stansted under fire for 'appalling' standards
Financial Times (London, England)
August 1, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1
Length: 388 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE and BOB SHERWOOD
Body
BAA's stewardship of London's airports was coming under mounting criticism yesterday after Ken Livingstone said 
Heathrow "shamed" the capital, while the head of Ryanair said the service standard at Stansted was "nothing short 
of appalling".
The company was also rounded on by Giovanni Bisignani, director-general of the International Air Transport 
Association, the global trade association for airlines, which said BAA "continues to deliver embarrassingly low 
service levels by failing to invest in appropriate equipment and staff to meet demand."
Just days after Kitty Ussher, the new City minister, told the Financial Times that the "hassle" of Heathrow was 
undermining London's status as a financial centre, the mayor also joined the fray yesterday saying: "Heathrow does 
shame London. It is typical of the English short-termism, lack of planning, lack of investment.'
The problems of Heathrow were raised by business leaders at a meeting with Gordon Brown last year and are also 
likely to feature at the first meeting of his new business council in the autumn. Yesterday, Sir Thomas Harris, vice-
chairman of Standard Chartered Capital Markets, said Heathrow's facilities were "clearly not fit for the purpose as 
they were designed for a different age" and could no longer cope with the passenger numbers.
Michael O' Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, rounded on the delays at security and immigration at Stansted. He 
added that the group provided "abject facilities, a third-rate service and charges extortionate prices, particularly at 
Stansted".
Many of the 17 security machines were regularly un-manned in peak hours and understaffing at passport control 
caused long queues and frequent passenger delays, he said.
Ryanair has frequently called for the break-up of the BAA London airports monopoly, which includes Heathrow, 
Gatwick and Stansted. The outcry against the airports group already triggered the launch of an investigation by the 
Competition Commission.
Heathrow and Stansted under fire for 'appalling' standards
BAA said Ryanair's attack on Stansted charges was "complete nonsense". It said: "We do staff up the security lines 
fully, when needed. We take our passenger forecasts from the airlines."
On Heathrow it added: "We are not deaf to the comments and concerns of business leaders and others.We have a 
plan to transform Heathrow, and it starts with the opening of Terminal 5."
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
End of Document
O'Leary's masterstroke LOMBARD - CHRIS HUGHES
O'Leary's masterstroke LOMBARD - CHRIS HUGHES
Financial Times (London, England)
August 1, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 16
Length: 318 words
Byline: By CHRIS HUGHES
Body
Ryanair is slashing capacity at one of its busiest airports for the first time in its history. Of all airline bosses, only 
Michael O'Leary could take such action and come out looking like a hero.
The Ryanair chief executive is grounding seven out of 40 planes flying from Stansted this winter and cutting back 
routes elsewhere.
His detractors will use this as evidence that Ryanair's low-cost business model has come unstuck. But it would be 
fairer to say that Mr O'Leary is sensibly modifying the model in response to weakening demand and the decision by 
airport operator BAA to raise passenger charges.
In a single stroke, Mr O'Leary has removed a drag on the company's profits while regaining the upper hand in its 
tense relationship with BAA. That - along with some surprisingly good quarterly results - has put a rocket under 
Ryanair's shares. Indeed, the jump in other airline stocks yesterday suggests that Mr O'Leary may have succeeded 
in blowing away the negative sentiment that has dogged the European aviation sector in recent months.
Ryanair's move puts genuine pressure on BAA, both financially and strategically. It has a direct impact on the 
airport group's revenues from Stansted. It also undermines BAA's plans to build another runway at the airport. If this 
is how airlines are going to respond to higher passenger charges, the new runway will be empty half the year.
True, Ryanair still faces headwinds. The airline has warned that demand is likely to remain weak. But Ryanair's 
ability to manage this challenge is increasingly convincing. It is not just the radical action at Stansted. Ryanair's 
revenues from extra services such as car hire and onboard snacks rose 53 per cent in its last quarter.
Investors are brave to jump straight back into the stock in these volatile markets. Still, they should have confidence 
in Mr O'Leary's ability to run the business for profitability as well as growth.
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
O'Leary's masterstroke LOMBARD - CHRIS HUGHES
End of Document
Ryanair up as it grounds Stansted flights
Ryanair up as it grounds Stansted flights
Financial Times (London, England)
August 1, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES UK; Pg. 16
Length: 389 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE
Body
Ryanair will for the first time ground aircraft during the winter months as it reduces capacity in response to weaker 
average fare levels.
Howard Millar, Ryanair chief financial officer and deputy chief executive, said the airline would keep a reduced fleet 
of 33 aircraft - down from 40 - at Stansted airport, north-east of London, between November and February.
Other reductions would lead to a total capacity cut across the 146-aircraft fleet of close to 7 per cent. No details 
were given of the routes that would be affected.
Ryanair's share price jumped sharply on the news and on raised profit guidance for the full year, closing last night 
55 cents, or 11.6 per cent, higher at Euros 5.30. Rival EasyJet rose by 12.9 per cent and British Airways was up by 
3.9 per cent.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair chief executive, said the airline was cutting capacity in the winter partly in response to 
weaker average fare levels and partly because of the doubling of both airport charges at Stansted and of air 
passenger duty in the UK.
The higher airport charges, which came into force in April, "make it more profitable to ground these aircraft during 
the winter rather than fly them", he said.
He added that the capacity reduction should "bring more stability" to yields while also reducing operating costs and 
eliminating losses on unprofitable winter routes at Stansted.
Mr O'Leary said the group's outlook for the current year to the end of March remained "cautious . . . due to the 
softness of traffic and yields. Although we have little visibility beyond the next two months we expect this weaker 
demand to continue."
He said that yields, which were flat in the first three months from April to June were expected to be "slightly down" 
in the second quarter and could fall by as much as 5 to 10 per cent in the winter quarters from October to March.
Ryanair up as it grounds Stansted flights
The group raised its profits guidance due to the capacity cuts, which would reduce airport charges. It expected 
lower oil costs thanks to successful hedging and the lower value of the US dollar, which would also reduce aircraft 
acquisition and maintenance costs.
Ryanair said that its net profit in the first quarter had risen by 20 per cent from Euros 115.7m to a record Euros 
138.9m, helped by a 22 per cent rise in turnover to Euros 693m and an 18 per cent rise in passenger volumes to 
12.6m.
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
End of Document
Irish Ryanair Presents Lamezia Terme-Pisa, Bergamo Flights
Irish Ryanair Presents Lamezia Terme-Pisa, Bergamo Flights
ANSA English Corporate Service
August 1, 2007 Wednesday 7:09 PM CET
©Copyright 2007 ANSA All Rights Reserved
Length: 118 words
Dateline: Lamezia Terme (Catanzaro) August 1
Body
(ANSA) - Lamezia Terme (Catanzaro), August 1 - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair will present tomorrow in Lamezia 
Terme, southern Italy, two new flights connecting Lamezia Terme with Pisa and Bergamo, both in the northern part 
of the country.
The flights from Lamezia Terme to Pisa and Bergamo will be launched in October 2007.
Ryanair currently operates a flight from Lamezia Terme to London.
The two new flights from the principal airport of Calabria will connect the southern region with the main European 
destinations through Ryanair's other low-cost flights operated from the airports of Pisa and Bergamo, Eugenio 
Ripepe said. Ripepe is president of Lamezia airport operator Sociata Aeroportuale Calabrese (SACAL).
Notes
Ryanair operated 425 routes in November 2006, as reported by ANSA. The air carrier targets to transport 52 million 
passengers by 2008, 64 million by 2010 and 73 million by 2012.
Load-Date: August 1, 2007
End of Document
Midday Leaders & Laggards : Nasdaq 100
Midday Leaders & Laggards: Nasdaq 100
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 4:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 205 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Nasdaq 100 declined in midday trading on Tuesday, weighed down by shares of Marvell Technology Group 
Ltd. and IAC/InterActiveCorp.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, lost 
3.27 points to 1,970.67. The broader Nasdaq composite rose 6.34 points to 2,589.62.
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. lost 77 cents, to 4.1 percent, to $18.12, reversing Monday's gains.
IAC/InterActiveCorp declined $1.19, or 3.9 percent, to $29.17, after the New York Internet conglomerate said 
second-quarter profit rose 78 percent, but results missed Wall Street estimates.
Amgen Inc. lost $1.74, or 3.1 percent, to $54.44. The government issued a ruling limiting reimbursement for anemia 
drugs, including Amgen's Aranesp, for cancer patients.
On the rising side, Ryanair Holdings PLC posted a 20 percent higher fiscal first-quarter profit, lifting shares $5.68, or 
15.5 percent, to $42.38 in afternoon trading.
Sun Microsystems Inc. gained 34 cents, or 7 percent, to $5.23, after the networking equipment maker's higher 
margins helped the company swing to a profit in the fiscal fourth quarter.
Level 3 Communications Inc. extended Monday's gains and rose 20 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $5.42.
Load-Date: August 1, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 0805 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 0805 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 8:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 664 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
Ryanair sees FY net profits up 10 pct, H2 yields down 5-10 pct vs last yr
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - No-frills airline Ryanair Holdings said it expects full year net profits to grow by 10 
pct against the 5 pct previously forecast, but said it expected second half yields to be down by as much as 5-10 pct 
against last year.
The Dublin-based carrier, whose post-tax first quarter profits rose 20 pct to 138.9 mln eur, said a cut in capacity on 
non-profitable winter routes and the significant airport savings from this would enable the increase in guidance.
Glaxosmithkline's Avandia drug should remain on market - FDA committee
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The US Food and Drug Administration's advisory committee voted 22 to 1 
yesterday that Glaxosmithkline PLC could continue to sell its Avandia diabetes drug in the US.
The committee voted that the data suggests some ischemic risk with Avandia but declined to comment on the 
comparative risk of Avandia to other oral anti-diabetic medicines.
Lloyds TSB H1 profit up 15 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - UK bank Lloyds TSB said it is selling insurance unit Abbey Life to Deutsche Bank 
for 977 mln stg in cash as it reported a 15 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost controls and lower bad 
debts.
Lloyds, the UK's fifth-biggest bank, said pretax profit excluding volatility -- its preferred measure of its performance -
- for the six months to June 30 came in at 2.010 bln stg, up from 1.750 bln stg in the same period last year.
Woolworths H1 sales improve
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Woolworths Group PLC, the troubled sweets, CDs and stationery group, has 
reported an improving first half underlying sales trend at its eponymous chain.
For the 25 weeks to July 28 retail like-for-like sales at the 818-store chain were up 0.7 pct -- an improvement on 
down 0.6 pct for the first 17 weeks of the period, reported June 6.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 0805 BST
Bodycote International H1 headline pretax profit 43.2 mln stg vs 35.1 mln stg
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Bodycote International has reported H1 pretax profits before exceptionals of 43.2 
mln stg against 35.1 mln stg for the same period in 2006 following robust first half demand in its aerospace, power 
generation and oil & gas markets.
Revenues rose 14 pct to 317.6 mln stg in the half, and pretax profit was 42.6 mln stg against 34.8 mln stg for H1 
2006.
Greggs H1 pretax up; says H2 trading likely near flat year-on-year on costs
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Greggs PLC reported a higher first-half pretax profit, and said trading for the 
second half is likely to be closer to that of the comparable period in 2006, due to significant cost increases.
The UK's biggest high street baker posted a pretax profit of 16.74 mln stg for the period to end-June, compared with 
12.49 mln stg a year earlier. Excluding a 2.0 mln stg pretax property profit on bakery site disposals, Greggs said 
pretax profit for the period increased 18.3 pct to 14.8 mln stg.
Rotork names Peter France COO; H1 pretax up 19 pct to 26.9 mln stg
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Engineering group Rotork PLC reported a 19 pct jump in its first-half pretax profit 
helped by a excellent growth in all its three divisions and said it has appointed Peter France chief operating officer.
The company posted a pretax profit of 26.9 mln stg for the first half from 22.5 mln stg earlier as revenues rose 12 
pct to 113.3 mln stg from 101.3 mln stg reported in the year-ago period.
Rexam H1 underlying pretax profit down to 98 mln stg from 121 mln stg
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Rexam PLC, world's largest can maker, today posted a sharply lower first-half 
underlying pretax profit, hurt by high aluminium prices, the US strike and currency translation of weak US dollar, but 
reiterated that the full year will be in line with internal expectations.
Rexam's underlying pretax profit came in sharply lower at 98 mln stg compared to the 121 mln the company 
reported in the same period last year.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
End of Document
Nasdaq 100 Leaders & Laggards: AAPL AKAM
Nasdaq 100 Leaders & Laggards: AAPL AKAM
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 9:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 251 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Nasdaq 100 fell Tuesday, dragged down by broader market worries and a decline in shares of Apple Inc.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, fell 
41.87 points, or 2.1 percent, to 1,932.06. The broader Nasdaq composite gave up 37.01 points to 2,546.27.
Apple shares declined $9.67, or 6.8 percent, to $131.76. Unconfirmed media reports said the computer and gadget 
maker might cut its production of iPhones.
Akamai Technologies Inc. shares fell $2.15, or 6 percent, to $33.96.
IAC/InteractiveCorp. shares lost $1.62, or 5.3 percent, to $28.74. The Internet conglomerate run by billionaire Barry 
Diller said second-quarter profit soared 78 percent on a large gain from the sale of Home Shopping Europe, but 
adjusted results missed analysts' expectations.
On the rising side, shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC climbed $4.79, or 13.1 percent, to $41.49. Europe's largest low-
cost airline reported a 20 percent increase in first-quarter profit and raised its full-year forecast.
Shares of Sun Microsystems Inc. added 21 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $5.10 after the networking equipment maker 
said fatter margins helped the company swing to a profit in the fiscal fourth quarter.
Shares of XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc., which is seeking to combine with its rival Sirius Satellite Radio Inc., rose 
29 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $11.45. Sirius said its net loss slimmed substantially in the second quarter on higher 
revenue and new subscriber additions.
Load-Date: August 1, 2007
End of Document
European markets end higher
European markets end higher
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 5:10 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 443 words
Byline: By SARAH TURNER
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
European shares ended higher Tuesday, posting their best one-day advance since mid-March as investors looked 
past recent credit-market fears to focus on upbeat earnings and deal news from companies including Ryanair 
Holdings and bank Lloyds TSB.
The U.K. FTSE 100 index jumped 2.5 percent to 6,360.10, the German DAX 30 index gained 1.7 percent to 
7,584.14 and the French CAC-40 index rose 1.9 percent to 5,751.08.
Stocks garnered support from a sharply higher open on Wall Street, following above-forecast earnings from General 
Motors Corp. and benign inflation data, with investors relieved that the market appeared to be able to shake off at 
least partially last week's private-equity and credit-market jitters.
"We see this as an initial (technical) bounce back from last week's correction," said Lutz Roehmeyer, a portfolio 
manager at LBB Invest in Germany.
Analysts say equity markets are still supported by solid fundamentals.
"I think that markets will still be susceptible to further corrections but will also see good news coming though on the 
earnings and economic growth front," said Stephen Dowds, the London-based head of international equities at 
Northern Trust.
Ryanair Holdings PLC soared nearly 13 percent after Europe's largest no-frills airline reported a 20 percent 
increase in first-quarter profits Tuesday and raised its full-year forecast.
In the financial sector, hedge fund manager Man Group rose 4 percent, while property firm Land Securities jumped 
3.6 percent. Among insurance firms, shares of German-based Allianz and France's AXA each up 2.9 percent.
"We believe the recent price fall offers a buying opportunity," said Michael Huttner, an insurance sector analyst at 
J.P. Morgan, noting that the sector's exposure to the subprime woes of the U.S. housing market looks relatively 
modest.
European markets end higher
"We believe strong underlying combined ratios and robust earnings will support continuing capital return at Allianz, 
Munich Re, AXA and Hannover Re," he added.
British retail bank Lloyds TSB rose 4.4 percent after it agreed to sell its Abbey Life Assurance Co. unit to Deutsche 
Bank for 977 million pounds (US$1.98 billion, €1.4 billion) in cash. Lloyds TSB also said its first-half net profit rose 
26 percent after net interest income edged up. The bank raised its dividend payout for the first time in five years.
Deutsche Bank shares rose 4 percent. The company reports second-quarter results on Wednesday.
"The past is positive but everyone is asking about the outlook," said Roehmeyer, noting still lingering worries that 
the U.S. subprime situation could impact on financial stocks in Europe.
Sarah Turner is a correspondent of Dow Jones Newswires.
Load-Date: August 1, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 4:20 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 755 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
UK retailers post steady growth in July but summer sales below expectations
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - UK retailers enjoyed steady growth during July but their expectations for strong 
summer sales failed to materialise, the UK's biggest business lobby said today.
The Confederation of British Industry found that a balance of +18 pct of retailers said sales were higher in July than 
in the same period a year ago, up slightly from +17 in June.
Ryanair sees FY net profits up 10 pct, H2 yields down 5-10 pct vs last yr
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - No-frills airline Ryanair Holdings said it expects full year net profits to grow by 10 
pct against the 5 pct previously forecast, but said it expected second half yields to be down by as much as 5-10 pct 
against last year.
The Dublin-based carrier, whose post-tax first quarter profits rose 20 pct to 138.9 mln eur, said a cut in capacity on 
non-profitable winter routes and the significant airport savings from this would enable the increase in guidance.
Glaxosmithkline's Avandia drug should remain on market - FDA committee
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The US Food and Drug Administration's advisory committee voted 22 to 1 
yesterday that Glaxosmithkline PLC could continue to sell its Avandia diabetes drug in the US.
The committee voted that the data suggests some ischemic risk with Avandia but declined to comment on the 
comparative risk of Avandia to other oral anti-diabetic medicines.
Lloyds TSB H1 profit up 15 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - UK bank Lloyds TSB said it is selling insurance unit Abbey Life to Deutsche Bank 
for 977 mln stg in cash as it reported a 15 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost controls and lower bad 
debts.
Lloyds, the UK's fifth-biggest bank, said pretax profit excluding volatility -- its preferred measure of its performance -
- for the six months to June 30 came in at 2.010 bln stg, up from 1.750 bln stg in the same period last year.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1605 BST
SABMiller says Q1 organic lager volumes up 13 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - SABMiller PLC said first quarter organic lager volumes were up 13 pct, driven by 
strong performances in Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America.
The world number two brewer of brands including Peroni Nastro Azzurro and Pilsner Urquell said it achieved a 
good financial performance in the first quarter but said revenue growth was partially offset by higher input costs and 
increased investment across the business.
Bodycote International H1 headline pretax profit 43.2 mln stg vs 35.1 mln stg
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Bodycote International has reported H1 pretax profits before exceptionals of 43.2 
mln stg against 35.1 mln stg for the same period in 2006 following robust first half demand in its aerospace, power 
generation and oil & gas markets.
Revenues rose 14 pct to 317.6 mln stg in the half, and pretax profit was 42.6 mln stg against 34.8 mln stg for H1 
2006.
Greggs H1 pretax up; says H2 trading likely near flat year-on-year on costs
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Greggs PLC reported a higher first-half pretax profit, and said trading for the 
second half is likely to be closer to that of the comparable period in 2006, due to significant cost increases.
The UK's biggest high street baker posted a pretax profit of 16.74 mln stg for the period to end-June, compared with 
12.49 mln stg a year earlier. Excluding a 2.0 mln stg pretax property profit on bakery site disposals, Greggs said 
pretax profit for the period increased 18.3 pct to 14.8 mln stg.
Rotork names Peter France COO; H1 pretax up 19 pct to 26.9 mln stg
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Engineering group Rotork PLC reported a 19 pct jump in its first-half pretax profit 
helped by a excellent growth in all its three divisions and said it has appointed Peter France chief operating officer.
The company posted a pretax profit of 26.9 mln stg for the first half from 22.5 mln stg earlier as revenues rose 12 
pct to 113.3 mln stg from 101.3 mln stg reported in the year-ago period.
Rexam H1 underlying pretax profit down to 98 mln stg from 121 mln stg
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Rexam PLC, world's largest can maker, today posted a sharply lower first-half 
underlying pretax profit, hurt by high aluminium prices, the US strike and currency translation of weak US dollar, but 
reiterated that the full year will be in line with internal expectations.
Rexam's underlying pretax profit came in sharply lower at 98 mln stg compared to the 121 mln the company 
reported in the same period last year.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 11:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 664 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
Ryanair sees FY net profits up 10 pct, H2 yields down 5-10 pct vs last yr
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - No-frills airline Ryanair Holdings said it expects full year net profits to grow by 10 
pct against the 5 pct previously forecast, but said it expected second half yields to be down by as much as 5-10 pct 
against last year.
The Dublin-based carrier, whose post-tax first quarter profits rose 20 pct to 138.9 mln eur, said a cut in capacity on 
non-profitable winter routes and the significant airport savings from this would enable the increase in guidance.
Glaxosmithkline's Avandia drug should remain on market - FDA committee
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The US Food and Drug Administration's advisory committee voted 22 to 1 
yesterday that Glaxosmithkline PLC could continue to sell its Avandia diabetes drug in the US.
The committee voted that the data suggests some ischemic risk with Avandia but declined to comment on the 
comparative risk of Avandia to other oral anti-diabetic medicines.
Lloyds TSB H1 profit up 15 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - UK bank Lloyds TSB said it is selling insurance unit Abbey Life to Deutsche Bank 
for 977 mln stg in cash as it reported a 15 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost controls and lower bad 
debts.
Lloyds, the UK's fifth-biggest bank, said pretax profit excluding volatility -- its preferred measure of its performance -
- for the six months to June 30 came in at 2.010 bln stg, up from 1.750 bln stg in the same period last year.
Woolworths H1 sales improve
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Woolworths Group PLC, the troubled sweets, CDs and stationery group, has 
reported an improving first half underlying sales trend at its eponymous chain.
For the 25 weeks to July 28 retail like-for-like sales at the 818-store chain were up 0.7 pct -- an improvement on 
down 0.6 pct for the first 17 weeks of the period, reported June 6.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES UK 1105 BST
Bodycote International H1 headline pretax profit 43.2 mln stg vs 35.1 mln stg
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Bodycote International has reported H1 pretax profits before exceptionals of 43.2 
mln stg against 35.1 mln stg for the same period in 2006 following robust first half demand in its aerospace, power 
generation and oil & gas markets.
Revenues rose 14 pct to 317.6 mln stg in the half, and pretax profit was 42.6 mln stg against 34.8 mln stg for H1 
2006.
Greggs H1 pretax up; says H2 trading likely near flat year-on-year on costs
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Greggs PLC reported a higher first-half pretax profit, and said trading for the 
second half is likely to be closer to that of the comparable period in 2006, due to significant cost increases.
The UK's biggest high street baker posted a pretax profit of 16.74 mln stg for the period to end-June, compared with 
12.49 mln stg a year earlier. Excluding a 2.0 mln stg pretax property profit on bakery site disposals, Greggs said 
pretax profit for the period increased 18.3 pct to 14.8 mln stg.
Rotork names Peter France COO; H1 pretax up 19 pct to 26.9 mln stg
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Engineering group Rotork PLC reported a 19 pct jump in its first-half pretax profit 
helped by a excellent growth in all its three divisions and said it has appointed Peter France chief operating officer.
The company posted a pretax profit of 26.9 mln stg for the first half from 22.5 mln stg earlier as revenues rose 12 
pct to 113.3 mln stg from 101.3 mln stg reported in the year-ago period.
Rexam H1 underlying pretax profit down to 98 mln stg from 121 mln stg
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Rexam PLC, world's largest can maker, today posted a sharply lower first-half 
underlying pretax profit, hurt by high aluminium prices, the US strike and currency translation of weak US dollar, but 
reiterated that the full year will be in line with internal expectations.
Rexam's underlying pretax profit came in sharply lower at 98 mln stg compared to the 121 mln the company 
reported in the same period last year.
Auto: London shares
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair posts 20 percent growth in 1st-quarter profit, raises full-year outlook
Ryanair posts 20 percent growth in 1st-quarter profit, raises full-year outlook
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 4:52 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 550 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC, Europe's largest no-frills airline, reported a 20 percent increase in first-quarter profits 
Tuesday and raised its full-year forecast, citing plans to ground some aircraft in the slower winter months. Its shares 
rose over 10 percent.
Net profit came to 138.9 million euros ($190 million) in the three months ending June 30, up from 115.7 million 
euros a year earlier. Sales rose 22 percent to 693 million euros ($948 million) and passenger volume rose 18 
percent to 12.6 million, reflecting its expanding route network.
Ryanair, founded in 1985, employs 4,800 people at 20 bases, and operates more than 500 routes. It sells tickets 
only via the Internet, does not permit passengers to transfer baggage, and charges extra for all services, including 
water and baggage check-in.
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said Ryanair planned to ground some of its aircraft over the winter, particularly at 
its largest base, Stansted Airport northeast of London, because of a doubling of service charges there in April.
O'Leary said seven of the 40 aircraft normally based at Stansted would be idle over the winter "because Stansted's 
higher airport charges make it more profitable to ground these aircraft during the winter rather than fly them."
Ryanair forecast grounding Stansted-based aircraft on the least profitable winter routes would allow the airline to 
increase its full-year net profit by 10 percent, up from the previous forecast of 5 percent, he said.
The winter reductions in services meant that Ryanair's previous projections for full-year passenger volume also 
have been trimmed to 50 million, down from the previous expectation of 52 million, he said.
Investors sent Ryanair stock higher on the better-than-expected profits and forecast. Its shares rose 10.4 percent to 
5.20 euros ($7.12) amid an overall higher market on the Irish Stock Exchange.
O'Leary blasted Stansted's operator, Grupo Ferrovial SA's BAA unit, as incompetent and its management of 
Stansted as "nothing short of appalling."
Ryanair posts 20 percent growth in 1st-quarter profit, raises full-year outlook
"Many of the 17 security machines are regularly unmanned during peak morning periods, and understaffing at 
passport control continues to cause long queues and frequent passenger delays," he said.
O'Leary also criticized the Dublin Airport Authority's 800 million euro ($1.1 billion) plans to build a second terminal, 
and insisted Ryanair would not use it.
First-quarter operating costs rose 24.6 percent to 535.5 million euros ($732.6 million). Ryanair said the major 
expense increase came from airport and baggage-handling charges, which rose 50 percent to 101.8 million euros 
($139.3 million).
O'Leary repeated his vow to challenge European competition authorities' refusal to authorize an attempted Ryanair 
takeover of its major Irish competitor, Aer Lingus.
EU officials ruled on June 27 that Ryanair's hostile bid which is opposed by more than 40 percent of shareholders, 
including the Irish government and Aer Lingus employees was deemed likely to produce an Irish monopoly. Ryanair 
pledged to sue to overturn the ruling, but its case isn't expected to be heard until 2009 at the earliest.
"We look forward to the European Court (of Justice) overturning this unprecedented, and we believe nakedly 
political, decision," said O'Leary, whose company owns 25.2 percent of Aer Lingus shares.
Load-Date: August 1, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair posts 20 percent growth in 1st-quarter profit, raises full-year outlook
Ryanair posts 20 percent growth in 1st-quarter profit, raises full-year outlook
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 10:14 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 549 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC, Europe's largest no-frills airline, reported a 20 percent increase in first-quarter profits 
Tuesday and raised its full-year forecast, citing plans to ground some aircraft in the slower winter months. Its shares 
rose over 10 percent.
Net profit came to €138.9 million (US$190 million) in the three months ending June 30, up from €115.7 million a 
year earlier. Sales rose 22 percent to €693 million (US$948 million) and passenger volume rose 18 percent to 12.6 
million, reflecting its expanding route network.
But Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said Ryanair planned to ground some of its aircraft over the winter, particularly 
at its largest base, Stansted Airport northeast of London, because of a doubling of service charges there in April.
O'Leary said seven of the 40 aircraft normally based at Stansted would be idle over the winter "because Stansted's 
higher airport charges make it more profitable to ground these aircraft during the winter rather than fly them."
He said Ryanair forecast that grounding Stansted-based aircraft on the least profitable winter routes would allow the 
airline to increase its full-year net profit by 10 percent, up from the previous forecast of 5 percent.
The winter reductions in services meant that Ryanair's previous projections for full-year passenger volume also 
have been trimmed to 50 million, down from the previous expectation of 52 million, he said.
Investors sent Ryanair stock higher on the better-than-expected profits and forecast. Its shares rose 10.4 percent to 
€5.20 (US$7.12) amid an overall higher market on the Irish Stock Exchange.
O'Leary branded the British airport operator, Grupo Ferrovial SA's BAA unit, as incompetent and its management of 
Stansted as "nothing short of appalling."
"Many of the 17 security machines are regularly unmanned during peak morning periods, and understaffing at 
passport control continues to cause long queues and frequent passenger delays," he said.
Ryanair posts 20 percent growth in 1st-quarter profit, raises full-year outlook
O'Leary also criticized the Dublin Airport Authority's €800 million (US$1.1 billion) plans to build a second terminal, 
and insisted Ryanair would not use it.
First-quarter operating costs rose 24.6 percent to €535.5 million (US$732.6 million). Ryanair said the major 
expense increase came from airport and baggage-handling charges, which rose 50 percent to €101.8 million 
(US$139.3 million).
O'Leary repeated his vow to challenge European competition authorities' refusal to authorize an attempted Ryanair 
takeover of its major Irish competitor, Aer Lingus.
EU officials ruled on June 27 that Ryanair's hostile bid which is opposed by more than 40 percent of shareholders, 
including the Irish government and Aer Lingus employees was deemed likely to produce an Irish monopoly. Ryanair 
pledged to sue to overturn the ruling, but its case isn't expected to be heard until 2009 at the earliest.
"We look forward to the European Court (of Justice) overturning this unprecedented, and we believe nakedly 
political, decision," said O'Leary, whose company owns 25.2 percent of Aer Lingus shares.
Ryanair, founded in 1985, employs 4,800 people at 20 bases, and operates more than 500 routes. It sells tickets 
only via the Internet, does not permit passengers to transfer baggage, and charges extra for all services, including 
water and baggage check-in.
Load-Date: August 1, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES Global 0805 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES Global 0805 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 8:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 628 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
Japan unemployment rate falls to over 9-year low in June
TOKYO (Thomson Financial) - Japan's unemployment rate fell to its lowest level in more than nine years in June as 
manufacturers and service companies took on more workers to cope with growing demand, data from the Ministry 
of Internal Affairs and Communications showed Tuesday.
The jobless rate dropped to 3.7 percent last month from 3.8 percent in May, the ministry said. That was the lowest 
level since February 1998 when it stood at 3.6 percent.
Ryanair Q1 profits up 20 pct to 139 mln eur, passengers up 18 pct to 12.6 mln
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - No-frills airline Ryanair Holdings said first quarter post-tax profits had risen by 20 
pct to 138.9 mln eur on a 22 pct increase in revenues to 693 mln eur.
Ryanair said passenger numbers in the six months to June 30, 2007 lifted by 18 pct to 12.6 mln. It said unit costs 
increased by 5 pct mainly due to higher fuel, staff and airport costs.
Glaxosmithkline's Avandia drug should remain on market - FDA committee
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The US Food and Drug Administration's advisory committee voted 22 to 1 
yesterday that Glaxosmithkline PLC could continue to sell its Avandia diabetes drug in the US.
The committee voted that the data suggests some ischemic risk with Avandia but declined to comment on the 
comparative risk of Avandia to other oral anti-diabetic medicines.
Alcatel-Lucent swings to Q2 net loss; sales ahead of forecasts
PARIS (Thomson Financial) - Alcatel-Lucent swung to a net loss in the second quarter as its transition phase 
following its merger continued.
The telecoms equipment company reported adjusted second-quarter net losses of 336 mln eur, as against a profit 
of 302 mln eur in the second quarter of 2006.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES Global 0805 BST
Suez H1 sales 23.729 bln eur, up 6.2 pct; confirms FY guidance
PARIS (Thomson Financial) - Suez said first half sales were 23.729 bln eur, up 6.2 pct from a year earlier, on 
strong performance in its environmental services activities.
The rise exceeded forecasts by analysts, who had expected a gain of at least 3 pct.
Lloyds TSB H1 profit up 15 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - UK bank Lloyds TSB said it is selling insurance unit Abbey Life to Deutsche Bank 
for 977 mln stg in cash as it reported a 15 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost controls and lower bad 
debts.
Lloyds, the UK's fifth-biggest bank, said pretax profit excluding volatility -- its preferred measure of its performance -
- for the six months to June 30 came in at 2.010 bln stg, up from 1.750 bln stg in the same period last year.
MAN Q2 opg jumps 54 pct, beats consensus, thanks to trucks, Scania dividend
MUNICH (Thomson Financial) - MAN AG said second quarter operating profit rose 54 pct to 403 mln eur, beating a 
consensus of 379 mln eur, thanks to a booming truck business and a dividend from its stake in rival Swedish 
truckmaker Scania AB.
Second quarter sales were up 9 pct at 3.5 bln eur while order intake at 4.8 bln eur were 17 pct better year-on-year.
India's Reserve Bank raises cash reserve ratio, keeps key bank rate unchanged
MUMBAI (Thomson Financial) - The Reserve Bank of India on Tuesday hiked its cash reserve ratio for banks by 50 
basis points to 7.0 pct, but kept short-term borrowing rates unchanged.
The CRR revision will come into effect from Aug 4.
German June retail sales up 0.7 pct vs May, down 0.8 pct year-on-year
WIESBADEN, Germany (Thomson Financial) - German retail sales rose 0.7 pct in real terms in June compared with 
May and fell 0.8 pct from June last year, according to preliminary figures from the Federal Statistics Office.
Analysts polled by Thomson Financial News had forecast a 1.5 pct gain in retail sales month-on-month and a 1.7 
pct decline year-on-year.
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES Global 1105 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES Global 1105 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 11:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 628 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
Japan unemployment rate falls to over 9-year low in June
TOKYO (Thomson Financial) - Japan's unemployment rate fell to its lowest level in more than nine years in June as 
manufacturers and service companies took on more workers to cope with growing demand, data from the Ministry 
of Internal Affairs and Communications showed Tuesday.
The jobless rate dropped to 3.7 percent last month from 3.8 percent in May, the ministry said. That was the lowest 
level since February 1998 when it stood at 3.6 percent.
Ryanair Q1 profits up 20 pct to 139 mln eur, passengers up 18 pct to 12.6 mln
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - No-frills airline Ryanair Holdings said first quarter post-tax profits had risen by 20 
pct to 138.9 mln eur on a 22 pct increase in revenues to 693 mln eur.
Ryanair said passenger numbers in the six months to June 30, 2007 lifted by 18 pct to 12.6 mln. It said unit costs 
increased by 5 pct mainly due to higher fuel, staff and airport costs.
Glaxosmithkline's Avandia drug should remain on market - FDA committee
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The US Food and Drug Administration's advisory committee voted 22 to 1 
yesterday that Glaxosmithkline PLC could continue to sell its Avandia diabetes drug in the US.
The committee voted that the data suggests some ischemic risk with Avandia but declined to comment on the 
comparative risk of Avandia to other oral anti-diabetic medicines.
Alcatel-Lucent swings to Q2 net loss; sales ahead of forecasts
PARIS (Thomson Financial) - Alcatel-Lucent swung to a net loss in the second quarter as its transition phase 
following its merger continued.
The telecoms equipment company reported adjusted second-quarter net losses of 336 mln eur, as against a profit 
of 302 mln eur in the second quarter of 2006.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES Global 1105 BST
Suez H1 sales 23.729 bln eur, up 6.2 pct; confirms FY guidance
PARIS (Thomson Financial) - Suez said first half sales were 23.729 bln eur, up 6.2 pct from a year earlier, on 
strong performance in its environmental services activities.
The rise exceeded forecasts by analysts, who had expected a gain of at least 3 pct.
Lloyds TSB H1 profit up 15 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - UK bank Lloyds TSB said it is selling insurance unit Abbey Life to Deutsche Bank 
for 977 mln stg in cash as it reported a 15 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost controls and lower bad 
debts.
Lloyds, the UK's fifth-biggest bank, said pretax profit excluding volatility -- its preferred measure of its performance -
- for the six months to June 30 came in at 2.010 bln stg, up from 1.750 bln stg in the same period last year.
MAN Q2 opg jumps 54 pct, beats consensus, thanks to trucks, Scania dividend
MUNICH (Thomson Financial) - MAN AG said second quarter operating profit rose 54 pct to 403 mln eur, beating a 
consensus of 379 mln eur, thanks to a booming truck business and a dividend from its stake in rival Swedish 
truckmaker Scania AB.
Second quarter sales were up 9 pct at 3.5 bln eur while order intake at 4.8 bln eur were 17 pct better year-on-year.
India's Reserve Bank raises cash reserve ratio, keeps key bank rate unchanged
MUMBAI (Thomson Financial) - The Reserve Bank of India on Tuesday hiked its cash reserve ratio for banks by 50 
basis points to 7.0 pct, but kept short-term borrowing rates unchanged.
The CRR revision will come into effect from Aug 4.
German June retail sales up 0.7 pct vs May, down 0.8 pct year-on-year
WIESBADEN, Germany (Thomson Financial) - German retail sales rose 0.7 pct in real terms in June compared with 
May and fell 0.8 pct from June last year, according to preliminary figures from the Federal Statistics Office.
Analysts polled by Thomson Financial News had forecast a 1.5 pct gain in retail sales month-on-month and a 1.7 
pct decline year-on-year.
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
End of Document
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES Global 1605 BST
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES Global 1605 BST
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 4:20 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 766 words
Body
Here are the top stories on Thomson Financial News
Johnson & Johnson planning cost and job cuts to save up to 1.6 bln usd in 2008
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - Health care product manufacturer Johnson & Johnson has announced initiatives 
that it says are expected to generate pre-tax, annual cost savings of 1.3-1.6 bln usd for 2008, in an effort to improve 
its overall cost structure and ensure continued profitable growth in the future.
The company said it expects to take associated pre-tax, restructuring charges in the range of 550-750 mln usd in 
the second half of the year.
Euro zone June unemployment 6.9 pct, unchanged vs revised May figure
BRUSSELS (Thomson Financial) - Euro zone unemployment was 6.9 pct in June, unchanged from the revised 
figure for May, EU statistics office Eurostat said.
Economists polled by Thomson Financial News had forecast unemployment of 6.9 pct.
Japan unemployment rate falls to over 9-year low in June
TOKYO (Thomson Financial) - Japan's unemployment rate fell to its lowest level in more than nine years in June as 
manufacturers and service companies took on more workers to cope with growing demand, data from the Ministry 
of Internal Affairs and Communications showed Tuesday.
The jobless rate dropped to 3.7 percent last month from 3.8 percent in May, the ministry said. That was the lowest 
level since February 1998 when it stood at 3.6 percent.
Ryanair Q1 profits up 20 pct to 139 mln eur, passengers up 18 pct to 12.6 mln
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - No-frills airline Ryanair Holdings said first quarter post-tax profits had risen by 20 
pct to 138.9 mln eur on a 22 pct increase in revenues to 693 mln eur.
Ryanair said passenger numbers in the six months to June 30, 2007 lifted by 18 pct to 12.6 mln. It said unit costs 
increased by 5 pct mainly due to higher fuel, staff and airport costs.
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES Global 1605 BST
Glaxosmithkline's Avandia drug should remain on market - FDA committee
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The US Food and Drug Administration's advisory committee voted 22 to 1 
yesterday that Glaxosmithkline PLC could continue to sell its Avandia diabetes drug in the US.
The committee voted that the data suggests some ischemic risk with Avandia but declined to comment on the 
comparative risk of Avandia to other oral anti-diabetic medicines.
Alcatel-Lucent swings to Q2 net loss; sales ahead of forecasts
PARIS (Thomson Financial) - Alcatel-Lucent swung to a net loss in the second quarter as its transition phase 
following its merger continued.
The telecoms equipment company reported adjusted second-quarter net losses of 336 mln eur, as against a profit 
of 302 mln eur in the second quarter of 2006.
Suez H1 sales 23.729 bln eur, up 6.2 pct; confirms FY guidance
PARIS (Thomson Financial) - Suez said first half sales were 23.729 bln eur, up 6.2 pct from a year earlier, on 
strong performance in its environmental services activities.
The rise exceeded forecasts by analysts, who had expected a gain of at least 3 pct.
Lloyds TSB H1 profit up 15 pct
LONDON (Thomson Financial) - UK bank Lloyds TSB said it is selling insurance unit Abbey Life to Deutsche Bank 
for 977 mln stg in cash as it reported a 15 pct increase in first half profit, helped by cost controls and lower bad 
debts.
Lloyds, the UK's fifth-biggest bank, said pretax profit excluding volatility -- its preferred measure of its performance -
- for the six months to June 30 came in at 2.010 bln stg, up from 1.750 bln stg in the same period last year.
MAN Q2 opg jumps 54 pct, beats consensus, thanks to trucks, Scania dividend
MUNICH (Thomson Financial) - MAN AG said second quarter operating profit rose 54 pct to 403 mln eur, beating a 
consensus of 379 mln eur, thanks to a booming truck business and a dividend from its stake in rival Swedish 
truckmaker Scania AB.
Second quarter sales were up 9 pct at 3.5 bln eur while order intake at 4.8 bln eur were 17 pct better year-on-year.
India's Reserve Bank raises cash reserve ratio, keeps key bank rate unchanged
MUMBAI (Thomson Financial) - The Reserve Bank of India on Tuesday hiked its cash reserve ratio for banks by 50 
basis points to 7.0 pct, but kept short-term borrowing rates unchanged.
The CRR revision will come into effect from Aug 4.
German June retail sales up 0.7 pct vs May, down 0.8 pct year-on-year
WIESBADEN, Germany (Thomson Financial) - German retail sales rose 0.7 pct in real terms in June compared with 
May and fell 0.8 pct from June last year, according to preliminary figures from the Federal Statistics Office.
Analysts polled by Thomson Financial News had forecast a 1.5 pct gain in retail sales month-on-month and a 1.7 
pct decline year-on-year.
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
THOMSON FINANCIAL NEWS TOP STORIES Global 1605 BST
End of Document
Nasdaq 100 weighed down by Marvell Technology Group , IAC/InterActiveCorp, and Amgen
Nasdaq 100 weighed down by Marvell Technology Group, 
IAC/InterActiveCorp, and Amgen
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 4:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 205 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Nasdaq 100 declined in midday trading on Tuesday, weighed down by shares of Marvell Technology Group 
Ltd. and IAC/InterActiveCorp.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, lost 
3.27 points to 1,970.67. The broader Nasdaq composite rose 6.34 points to 2,589.62.
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. lost 77 cents, to 4.1 percent, to $18.12, reversing Monday's gains.
IAC/InterActiveCorp declined $1.19, or 3.9 percent, to $29.17, after the New York Internet conglomerate said 
second-quarter profit rose 78 percent, but results missed Wall Street estimates.
Amgen Inc. lost $1.74, or 3.1 percent, to $54.44. The government issued a ruling limiting reimbursement for anemia 
drugs, including Amgen's Aranesp, for cancer patients.
On the rising side, Ryanair Holdings PLC posted a 20 percent higher fiscal first-quarter profit, lifting shares $5.68, or 
15.5 percent, to $42.38 in afternoon trading.
Sun Microsystems Inc. gained 34 cents, or 7 percent, to $5.23, after the networking equipment maker's higher 
margins helped the company swing to a profit in the fiscal fourth quarter.
Level 3 Communications Inc. extended Monday's gains and rose 20 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $5.42.
Load-Date: August 1, 2007
End of Document
Apple , Akamai drag down Nasdaq 100, along with broader market worries
Apple, Akamai drag down Nasdaq 100, along with broader market worries
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 9:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 251 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Nasdaq 100 fell Tuesday, dragged down by broader market worries and a decline in shares of Apple Inc.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, fell 
41.87 points, or 2.1 percent, to 1,932.06. The broader Nasdaq composite gave up 37.01 points to 2,546.27.
Apple shares declined $9.67, or 6.8 percent, to $131.76. Unconfirmed media reports said the computer and gadget 
maker might cut its production of iPhones.
Akamai Technologies Inc. shares fell $2.15, or 6 percent, to $33.96.
IAC/InteractiveCorp. shares lost $1.62, or 5.3 percent, to $28.74. The Internet conglomerate run by billionaire Barry 
Diller said second-quarter profit soared 78 percent on a large gain from the sale of Home Shopping Europe, but 
adjusted results missed analysts' expectations.
On the rising side, shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC climbed $4.79, or 13.1 percent, to $41.49. Europe's largest low-
cost airline reported a 20 percent increase in first-quarter profit and raised its full-year forecast.
Shares of Sun Microsystems Inc. added 21 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $5.10 after the networking equipment maker 
said fatter margins helped the company swing to a profit in the fiscal fourth quarter.
Shares of XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc., which is seeking to combine with its rival Sirius Satellite Radio Inc., rose 
29 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $11.45. Sirius said its net loss slimmed substantially in the second quarter on higher 
revenue and new subscriber additions.
Load-Date: August 1, 2007
End of Document
London shares - closing features
London shares - closing features
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 5:18 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 483 words
Body
FTSE 100 risers
Standard Life 308-1/2 up 18-1/2
Sector consolidation; equity market recovery; prudential figs tomorrow
Friends Provident 187.0 up 9.30
Resolution merger situation; Old Mutual considering bid
Old Mutual 163.60 up 6.90
Mulling bid for Friends Provident
Prudential 683-1/2 up 33-1/2
Sector consolidation; figures out tomorrow
Aviva 691 up 32
Sector consolidation
Lloyds TSB 558 up 23-1/2
Strong H1; div hike; Abbey Life sale; Merrill 'buy' & 705p tgt
Alliance & Leicester 1,040 up 22
Merrill 'neutral' from 'sell'
Vedanta Resources 1,789 up 88
Tracking commodity prices; Merrill Lynch positive
Man Group 568 up 22
London shares - closing features
UBS 'buy' with target upped to 660 pence from 585
Experian 570 up 21-1/2
UBS 'buy' with target upped to 750 pence from 710
BG 808 up 32
Better-than-expected interims
FTSE 250 risers
EasyJet 511-1/2 up 58-1/2
Goldman Sachs 'buy' from 'neutral'; Ryanair ups guidance
Taylor Wimpey 330-1/4 up 30-1/4
Co ups pretax synergy estimates; share buyback; Evolution 'buy' from 'add'
Bovis Homes 775 up 38
With Taylor Wimpey
Rotork 1040 up 123
H1 profits up 19 pct, ahead of broker forecasts
St James's Place 444-3/4 up 32-1/2
Panmure repeats 'buy' & 560p tgt after 58 pct H1 profit rise; Merrill 'buy'
Rightmove 580-1/2 up 24
UBS 'buy' from 'neutral' with 680 pence target
Beazley Group 165 up 10-1/4
UBS reiterates 'buy'
Soco International 1,989 up 95
UBS reiterates 'buy' & ups tgt to 2,130 pence from 2,100
Cattles 371 up 15-1/2
Merrill Lynch 'buy' from 'neutral'
HMV 113 up 5-3/4
Sale of Japanese business; Evolution 'buy' with 140 pence target
FTSE 250 fallers
Greggs 4,910 down 168
Numis reiterates 'reduce' & cuts forecasts after interims
Other risers
London shares - closing features
Proximagen Neuroscience 114-1/2 up 25-1/2
Confirmed it has received takeover approaches
Amstrad 147-1/4 up 26
Agreed 125 mln stg bid from British Sky Broadcasting
Cambridge Mineral Resources 4.50 up 0.50
Resumes trading after appointment of advisor, broker
Biofuels Corporation 3.10 up 1.10
Company de-listed on Thursday morning
Freeport 378 up 35-3/4
CEREP bid situation
Cyan Holdings 10-1/2 up 1
5.3 mln stg placing; Chinese expansion moves
Metals Exploration 43 up 2-1/2
Phillipines license news expected tomorrow
Reliance Security 892-1/2 up 50-1/2
Agrees 916 pence-a-share cash offer from Brian Kingham
Epicure Qatar 1.05 usd
New issue at 1.00 usd
Woolworths 25-1/2 up 2-1/2
Improving H1 underlying sales trend
Connemara Mining 38-1/2
New issue, placed at 35 pence
Matra Petroleum 7.62 up 0.37
Positive AGM statement
Other fallers
Clinphone 78-3/4 down 46-1/4
FY profits warning
Cyprotex 3.62 down 1.38
Cautious update
Minorplanet 34-1/2 down 12
London shares - closing features
FY profits warning
Pace Micro 93-1/2 down 14
Unsettled by agreed BSkyB bid for Amstrad
Clipper Windpower 714 down 87-1/2
H1 net losses warning
Cassidy Brothers 59-1/2 down 6
Cautious statement offsets FY profits recovery
Games Workshop 294 down 8
Swing to FY losses; short-term trading prospects remain challenging
ITM Power 136-1/4 down 5-3/4
Widening FY losses
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
End of Document
London shares - midafternoon features
London shares - midafternoon features
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 2:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 549 words
Body
FTSE 100 risers
Lloyds TSB 554-1/2 up 20
Strong H1; div hike; Abbey Life sale; Merrill 'buy' & 705p tgt
Royal Bank of Scotland 597-1/2 up 27-1/2
With Lloyds TSB; ABN bid situation
Alliance & Leicester 1,037 up 19
Merrill 'neutral' from 'sell'
Vedanta Resources 1,782 up 81
Tracking commodity prices; Merrill Lynch positive
Persimmon 1,149 up 48
With Taylor Wimpey
GlaxoSmithKline 1,252 up 37
Positive Avandia ruling in US; Evolution repeats 'buy'
Friends Provident 184 up 6.3
Resolution merger situation
Man Group 567 up 21
UBS 'buy' with target upped to 660 pence from 585
HSBC 917 up 24-1/2
London shares - midafternoon features
Goldman ups tgt to 1,028p; Lehman/Morgan Stanley positive
Experian 568 up 19-1/2
UBS 'buy' with target upped to 750 pence from 710
BG 806-1/2 up 30-1/2
Better-than-expected interims
FTSE 100 fallers
Unilever 1,539 down 5
Credit Suisse 'underperform' from 'neutral' with tgt cut to 22.0 eur
Severn Trent 1,286 down 3
Morgan Stanley cuts target to 1,545 pence from 1,570
BSkyB 663-1/2 down 1
Agreed 125 mln stg bid for Amstrad
FTSE 250 risers
easyJet 498-1/2 up 45-1/2
Goldman Sachs 'buy' from 'neutral'; Ryanair ups guidance
St James's Place 440-3/4 up 28-1/2
Panmure repeats 'buy' & 560p tgt after 58 pct H1 profit rise; Merrill 'buy'
Rightmove 590 up 33-1/2
UBS 'buy' from 'neutral' with 680 pence target
Beazley Group 166-1/4 up 11-1/2
UBS reiterates 'buy'
Soco International 1,964 up 70
UBS reiterates 'buy' & ups tgt to 2,130 pence from 2,100
Bluebay Asset Management 386 up 8
Credit Suisse reiterates 'outperform'
Taylor Wimpey 330 up 30
Co ups pretax synergy estimates; share buyback; Evolution 'buy' from 'add'
Bovis Homes 768 up 31
With Taylor Wimpey
Ultra Electronics 1,094 up 35
London shares - midafternoon features
Citigroup 'buy' vs 'hold' after yesterday's interims; Credit Suisse ups tgt
Rotork 1003 up 86
H1 profits up 19 pct, ahead of broker forecasts
Cattles 367-3/4 up 12-3/4
Merrill Lynch 'buy' from 'neutral'
United Business Media 763 up 4
UBS reiterates 'buy' after in-line interims
HMV 112 up 4-1/4
Sale of Japanese business; Evolution 'buy' with 140 pence target
FTSE 250 fallers
Bodycote 269-1/2 down 3-1/2
Profit-taking after interims
Greggs 4,896 down 182
Numis reiterates 'reduce' & cuts forecasts after interims
Other risers
Proximagen Neuroscience 110 up 21
Confirmed it has received takeover approaches
Amstrad 147 up 25-3/4
Agreed 125 mln stg bid from British Sky Broadcasting
Cambridge Mineral Resources 4.50 up 0.50
Resumes trading after appointment of advisor, broker
Freeport 378 up 35-3/4
CEREP bid situation
Cyan Holdings 10-1/2 up 1
5.3 mln stg placing; Chinese expansion moves
Dermasalve 6.87 up 0.50
Positive trading update
Reliance Security 900 up 58
Agrees 916 pence-a-share cash offer from Brian Kingham
Epicure Qatar 1.05 usd
London shares - midafternoon features
New issue at 1.00 usd
Woolworths 25-1/2 up 2-1/2
Improving H1 underlying sales trend
Connemara Mining 38-1/2
New issue, placed at 35 pence
Matra Petroleum 7.62 up 0.37
Positive AGM statement
Other fallers
Clinphone 79-1/2 down 45-1/2
FY profits warning
Cyprotex 3.62 down 1.38
Cautious update
Minorplanet 34-1/2 down 12
FY profits warning
Pace Micro 93 down 14-1/2
Unsettled by agreed BSkyB bid for Amstrad
Clipper Windpower 724 down 77-1/2
H1 net losses warning
Cassidy Brothers 59-1/2 down 6
Cautious statement offsets FY profits recovery
Games Workshop 297 down 5
Swing to FY losses; short-term trading prospects remain challenging
ITM Power 133 down 9
Widening FY losses
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
End of Document
London shares - midday features
London shares - midday features
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 12:04 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 653 words
Body
FTSE 100 risers
Lloyds TSB 553 up 18-1/2
Strong H1; div hike; Abbey Life sale; Merrill 'buy' & 705p tgt
Royal Bank of Scotland 593 up 23
With Lloyds TSB; ABN bid situation
Alliance & Leicester 1,043 up 25
Merrill 'neutral' from 'sell'
Vedanta Resources 1,772 up 71
Tracking commodity prices; Merrill Lynch positive
Kazakhmys 1,284 up 36
Tracking commodity prices; production update
Persimmon 1,167 up 35
With Taylor Wimpey
GlaxoSmithKline 1,253 up 38
Positive Avandia ruling in US; Evolution repeats 'buy'
Friends Provident 182.60 up 4.90
Resolution merger situation
Man Group 561-1/2 up 15-1/2
London shares - midday features
UBS 'buy' with target upped to 660 pence from 585
Next 1,897 up 55
Brokers view the shares as oversold
Associated British Foods 838 up 18-1/2
Morgan Stanley 'overweight'
HSBC 912-1/2 up 20
Goldman ups tgt to 1,028p; Lehman/Morgan Stanley positive
Experian 559 up 10-1/2
UBS 'buy' with target upped to 750 pence from 710
Pearson 789-1/2 up 11-1/2
Lehman 'equal-weight' from 'underweight'
Tesco 407-3/4 up 5
Merrill 'buy'
Rexam 503-1/2 up 13-1/2
Upbeat outlook with interims; Evolution 'buy' with 570 pence target
Vodafone 149.40 up 1.30
Credit Suisse 'outperform' from 'neutral'
BG 800-1/2 up 24-1/2
Better-than-expected interims
FTSE 100 fallers
Unilever 1,527 down 17
Credit Suisse 'underperform' from 'neutral' with tgt cut to 22.0 eur
Severn Trent 1,287 down 2
Morgan Stanley cuts target to 1,545 pence from 1,570
BSkyB 663-1/2 down 1
Agreed 125 mln stg bid for Amstrad
FTSE 250 risers
easyJet 501 up 48
Goldman Sachs 'buy' from 'neutral'; Ryanair ups guidance
St James's Place Capital 445 up 32-3/4
London shares - midday features
Panmure repeats 'buy' & 560p tgt after 58 pct H1 profit rise; Merrill 'buy'
Rightmove 5894 up 37-1/2
UBS 'buy' from 'neutral' with 680 pence target
Beazley Group 163 up 8-1/4
UBS reiterates 'buy'
Soco International 1,971 up 77
UBS reiterates 'buy' & ups tgt to 2,130 pence from 2,100
Bluebay Asset Management 392 up 14
Credit Suisse reiterates 'outperform'
Taylor Wimpey 322-1/4 up 22-1/4
Co ups pretax synergy estimates; share buyback; Evolution 'buy' from 'add'
Bovis Homes 769-1/2 up 32-1/2
With Taylor Wimpey
Ultra Electronics 1,113 up 54
Citigroup 'buy' from 'hold' after yesterday's interims; Credit Suisse ups tgt
Rotork 983 up 66
H1 profits up 19 pct
Cattles 376 up 20-1/2
Merrill Lynch 'buy' from 'neutral'
United Business Media 769 up 10
UBS reiterates 'buy' after in-line interims
HMV 108 up 3/4
Sale of Japanese business; Evolution 'buy' with 140 pence target
FTSE 250 fallers
Bodycote 269 down 3
Profit-taking after interims
Greggs 4,884 down 194
Numis reiterates 'reduce' & cuts forecasts after interims
Pennon 606-1/2 down 1/2
Morgan Stanley trims target to 615 pence from 620
London shares - midday features
Other risers
Amstrad 146-3/4 up 25-1/2
Agreed 125 mln stg bid from British Sky Broadcasting
Cambridge Mineral Resources 4.50 up 0.50
Resumes trading after appointment of advisor, broker
Cyan Holdings 10-3/4 up 1-1/4
5.3 mln stg placing; Chinese expansion moves
Dermasalve 7.12 up 0.75
Positive trading update
Freeport 372 up 29-3/4
CEREP bid situation
Reliance Security 890 up 48
Agrees 916 pence-a-share cash offer from Brian Kingham
Epicure Qatar 1.05 usd
New issue at 1.00 usd
Woolworths 25-1/2 up 2-1/2
Improving H1 underlying sales trend
Landore Resources 20 up 3/4
Positive progress report
Connemara Mining 38-1/2
New issue, placed at 35 pence
Matra Petroleum 8.00 up 0.75
Positive AGM statement
Silence Therapeutics 125 up 9-1/4
Expands licensing deal with Quark Pharma
Other fallers
Clinphone 79-1/2 down 45-1/2
FY profits warning
Cyprotex 3.62 down 1.38
Cautious update
London shares - midday features
Minorplanet 35 down 11-1/2
FY profits warning
ITM Power 133-1/2 down 8-1/2
Widening FY losses
Clipper Windpower 735-1/2 down 66
H1 net losses warning
Pace Micro 93 down 14-1/2
Unsettled by agreed BSkyB bid for Amstrad
Cassidy Brothers 59-1/2 down 6
Cautious statement offsets FY profits recovery
Surface Transforms 16 down 1-1/2
895,000 stg placing at 20 pence; FY losses
Games Workshop 296-1/4 down 5-3/4
Swing to FY losses; short-term trading prospects remain challenging
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ rebounds, gains over 300 points
ISEQ rebounds, gains over 300 points
Business World (Digest) 
July 31, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 492 words
Highlight: The Dublin market roared back to life today on the back of sharp gains in the financials and Ryanair.
Body
The Dublin market roared back to life today on the back of sharp gains in the financials and Ryanair.
The ISEQ closed up 307.56 points to 8,563.39
Having slumped by more than E9m over the previous six sessions, the ISEQ index staged a remarkable recovery to 
close over 3pc, or 313.37 points, higher at 8,569.20.
 The gains were in line with other major bourses across Europe and came on the back of continued positive trading 
in the US, where traders on Wall Street appear to have rediscovered a bout of confidence. Back in Dublin, the 
financial sector was the main catalyst for the turnaround with Anglo Irish Bank jumping 5pc, or 77c, to 13.71, Bank 
of Ireland up 4pc, or 65c, to 14.05 and Irish Life and Permanent up 6pc, to 100c to 17.80. AIB was also sharply 
higher ahead of its interim results today, ending the session 106c higher at 19.24. Shares in Ryanair also took off 
after the no-frills airline posted an impressive set of first quarter results. It announced pre-tax profits that rose to 
E156m in the three months to the end of June, up from E128.6m last year. The results were well ahead of market 
expectations. Ryanair said that an 18pc rise in passenger numbers to 12.6 million and a 53pc jump in ancillary 
revenues were behind the strong performance. Revenues during the period grew by 22pc to E693m. The news was 
well received by both investors, with shares in the company ending the day 14pc, or 67c, higher at 5.32. Meanwhile, 
The analysts were no less impressed by the performance. Davy Stockbrokers described the performance as "very 
encouraging" while Goodbody analyst, Joe Gill, said "the numbers are talking". The positive sentiment around in 
Dublin yesterday also stretched to the construction sector with CRH up 89c to 32.78, Grafton 57c to 10.06 and 
Kingspan up 39c to 17.60. McInerney was up 4c to 2.22. Those gains helped cushion the blow of a 25pc fall in the 
share price of drinks group C and C. Shares in the Bulmers cider manufacturer slumped 170c to 6.25 after it issued 
yet another profit warning - its second this month. The company said in a statement to the stock exchange that 
operating profits for the first half of the year are likely to be down by around 35pc on the year ago period. This was 
because trading "deteriorated at an unexpected rate during the second half of July", due mainly to "the sustained 
ISEQ rebounds, gains over 300 points
period of extremely poor weather in Great Britain and Ireland and also increased competition in Great Britain". It 
added that cider sales volumes for the month declined significantly on the same period last year. Other notable 
movers yesterday included Dragon Oil, up 20c to 3.32, Elan, up 69c to 13.14, Siteserv, up 11c, or 7c, to 0.70 and 
Paddy Power, up 75c to 23.00. Meanwhile, FBD Holdings jumped 23c to 26.70, while IAWS added on 75c to 15.50 
and Kerry Group tacked on 4c to 19.60. Irish Continental Group ended the session 50c lower at 23.75 as the 
takeover stalemate at the ferries operator rumbles on.
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ up 220 pts as Ryanair soars 10pc
ISEQ up 220 pts as Ryanair soars 10pc
Business World (Digest) 
July 31, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 242 words
Highlight: Shares in Ryanair soared by more than 10pc as investors finally breathed a bit of life back into the 
market.
Body
Shares in Ryanair soared by more than 10pc this morning as investors finally breathed a bit of life back into the 
Dublin market.
Having slumped by more than E9bn in the previous six sessions, the market shot ahead by more than 2.5pc in early 
deals today. 
Just before 0930, the ISEQ index was up 219.28 points to 8,475.110, having slumped by around E9bn in the 
previous six sessions.
 Ryanair was flying high after the airline this morning posted an impressive set of first quarter results. It posted pre-
tax profits of just under E156m for its first three months to the end of June, compared to E128.6m in the same 
period a year earlier. The results were much better than expected. The news lifted shares in the airline, which have 
fallen sharply in recent months, up 55c to 5.20. Analysts welcomed the upbeat trading update, with Davy describing 
the numbers as "very encouraging". Meanwhile, Goodbody analyst, Joe Gill, said, "the numbers are talking". All 
ears will now be on Michael O'Leary's conference call at 1430 this afternoon. Elsewhere, the financials, which have 
taken a battering in recent sessions, moved sharply higher. AIB was up 4pc, or 70c, to 18.88, while Anglo Irish 
Bank jumped 5pc, or 45c, to 13.85 and Bank of Ireland tacked on 45c to 13.85. Irish Life and Permanent soared 
3.5pc, or 60c, to 17.40. Other notable movers included CRH, up 36c to 32.25, Grafton, up 4pc, or 46c, to 9.95, 
Elan, up 41c to 12.86 and Siteserv, up 4c to 0.63.
Load-Date: August 2, 2007
ISEQ up 220 pts as Ryanair soars 10pc
End of Document
Ryanair posts profit rise, yields weak
Ryanair posts profit rise, yields weak
Business World (Digest) 
July 31, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 206 words
Highlight: Ryanair, today posted a pre-tax profit that rose to E156m in its first quarter from E128.6m last year.
Body
Low-cost airline, Ryanair, today posted a pre-tax profit that rose to E156m in its first quarter from E128.6m last year 
but warned that yields will weaken in the full year.
It said that revenues grew by 22pc to E693m as passenger numbers rose by 18pc to 12.6 million.
Ancillary revenues - which includes areas such as excess baggage charges, car hire, travel insurance and on-board 
sales - jumped by 53pc to E117.1m.
 Ryanair said its costs increased by 5pc due to higher airport charges, fuel and staff costs. Fuel costs rose 14pc 
and fell as a proportion of total costs, helped by the stronger euro. Chief executive Michael O'Leary said passenger 
volumes this winter would rise by 18pc to 50 million, a lower rate of growth than the 24pc the airline had previously 
expected. This is mainly because it is grounding seven of its 40 planes based at Stansted because of increased 
charges there. He added that the outlook for the rest of the year remained cautious, saying yields - or revenue 
made from each passenger - would drop by 5pc to 10pc this winter compared with a year earlier. Despite this, 
Ryanair lifted its estimate of net profit growth for the full year from 5pc to 10pc as the reduction in capacity at 
Stansted would lower costs.
Load-Date: August 2, 2007
End of Document
TFN UK calendar and forecasts for today
TFN UK calendar and forecasts for today
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 6:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 140 words
Body
TODAY'S EXPECTED COMPANY NEWS
INTERIMS
AngloGold Ashanti (Q2)
Bodycote International
Elementis
Greggs
Lloyds TSB
Rexam
Rotork
Ryanair (Q1)
St James's Place
Taylor Wimpey
Xchanging
FINALS
PZ Cussons
Games Workshop
ITM Power
Investcorp
TFN UK calendar and forecasts for today
Reflec
AGMs
AssetCo
Broker Network Holdings
Caledon Resources
Everfor Diamonds
Mwana Africa
Oriel Resources
Rensburg Sheppards
SABMiller
Scapa Group
Software Radio Technology
Workspace Group
Xtract Energy
EGMs
Hanson
NEW BUSINESS FIGURES
St James's Place (Q2)
TRADING STATEMENTS
SABMiller
Woolworths
PRODUCTION REPORT
Antofagasta
ECONOMICS
* GfK/NOP July consumer confidence survey (1030 BST)
* UK CBI monthly distributive trades survey (1100 BST)
MARKET EXPECTATIONS
* Bodycote International first half pretax profit 42.2 mln stg vs 34.8 mln
* Ryanair Holdings first quarter net profit net profit 119-135 mln eur vs 115.7 ml; revenue 650 mln eur, up 15 pct
TFN UK calendar and forecasts for today
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
End of Document
Tuesday Morning Market: Mind the rally!
Tuesday Morning Market: Mind the rally!
Citywire
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 9:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 567 words
Body
(Update) Shares are extending early gains, investors reassured by Wall Street's strong rebound after suffering its 
worst week in four years due to credit squeeze worries.
By 9.45am the FTSE 100 index was up 93 points at 6,299 and the Mid-250 index was 232 points to the good at 
11,304, also helped by a raft of largely optimistic trading updates.
In Europe the CAC-40 in France was up 57 points and the German DAX 88 points firmer.
Miners, housebuilders, insurances and properties led the recovery while banks received some more favourable 
news from positive results and the sale of Abbey Life by Lloyds TSB, 19p higher at 554p.
Firm metal prices rekindled demand for Lonmin at £34.59, Rio Tinto £35.77 and Xstrata £31.84, up between 95p 
and 131p.
Land Securities at £16.79 and Barratt Developments 927p reflected the strength of properties and housebuilders 
with gains of 45p and 25p, while in banks a Merrill Lynch rating upgrade lifted Alliance & Leicester 22p to £10.40p 
and HSBC rose another 18p to 910p on further consideration of yesterday's pleasing figures.
The US Food & Drugs Administration's vote to keep GlaxoSmithKline's Avandia diabetes drug on the market 
boosted the shares 42p to £12,57p
Friends Provident rose 6.1p to 183.8p as Resolution signalled it is ready to change the terms of the merger deal, 
while Prudential at 669p and Aviva 674p improved around 15p.
Airlines benefited from an upbeat outlook from Ryanair, 0.44 harder at 5.20. British Airways picked up 11p to 393p 
and easyJet, additionally supported by a positive note for Goldman Sachs, climbed 58p to 501p.
Next jumped another 32p to £18.74, encouraged by cheerful comment from retail guru Nick Bubb and Pearson 
added 7p to 785p in the wake of upbeat press and broker comment on yesterday's figures.
Unilever suffered a fall of 21p to £15.23 after a rating downgrade from Credit Suisse and oil shares were left out in 
the cold behind a weaker crude price.
Profits warnings unnerved Clinphone at 79.5p, Cyprotex 3.62p, Minorplanet Systems 34.5p, DIC Entertainment 81p 
and Games Workshop 289p, between 1.5p and 18p lower.
Tuesday Morning Market: Mind the rally!
Amstrad was hoisted 24.75p to 146p on the agreed 150p-a-share offer from BSkyB and Ultra Electronics soared 
64p to £11.23 as Citigroup upgraded its rating to buy from hold with a £12.50 target price in response to yesterday's 
trading update.
A Merrill Lynch rating upgrades contributed to a 23.25p rise in Cattles Holdings at 378.75p and Workspace was a 
good market at 366p,up 24.5p.
Freeport was marked up 37.5p to 379.75p as the Takeover Panel that Carlyle had to proceed with its offer.
Widening losses chipped 12.25p from ITM Power at 129.75p and Clipper Windpower fell 69p to 732.5p as it warned 
that interim results will reflect a net loss.
A reassuring updated underpinned Woolworths at 25p, up 2p, with broth Panmure Gordon and Numis taking a 
positive stance on the stock.
HMV Group edged up a penny to 108p on the sale of its Japan business and a 33% increase in new business 
stimulated demand for St James's Place at 433p, up 21p.
Among others to please were Rexam at 501p, PZ Cussons 158p, Elementis 103p, Rotork 967p, Taylor Wimpey 
320p, Simigon 86p, Jarvis Securities 200p, Corin Group 562p, Inland 52p, and Next Fifteen Communications 82p, 
between 2p and 50p higher.
Newcomer Sepura started life at 155p, against the Initial Public offer price of 145p and Connemara Mining, placed 
at 35p, was trading at 39p.
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
Excess baggage helps Ryanair jet to new profit record
Excess baggage helps Ryanair jet to new profit record
Citywire
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 2:39 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 299 words
Body
Europe's largest low-cost airline flew in with record first-quarter profit of 139 million, a 20% increase over last year's 
116 million.
In the three months to 30 June, Ryanair increased passenger traffic 18% from 10.7 million to 12.6 million pushing 
revenue up 22% to 693 million against 567 million.
Unit costs increased by 5% mainly due to higher fuel, staff, and airport costs, chief executive Michael O'Leary says.
Key to the record profit was a 53% increase in what O'Leary calls 'ancillary revenue', that is car hire, hotels, travel 
insurance, in-flight sales and fees from excess baggage.
'Ancillaries accounted for 17% of total revenue and we expect this to rise to 20% over the next three years,' he said.
Costs increased largely due to the doubling of airport charges at Stansted and higher charges at Dublin airport.
Staff costs rose 34% to 75.9 million due to volume growth and increased cabin crewing ratios.
Ryanair (RYA) shares added 0.585 or 12.32% on the news to 5.3375 giving the no-frills airline a stock market value 
of 8.1 billion.
O'Leary is pressing on with Ryanair's appeal to the European Court of First Instance against the European Union 
decision to prohibit its bid for Aer Lingus.
'We are confident that this decision will be overturned because this is the first ever prohibition between two 
companies which combined will have less than 5% of the EU market,' he said.
'The EU Commission has for the last 20 years been encouraging EU airlines to merge, and they have already 
approved much larger mergers such as Air France/KLM and Lufthansa/Swiss.'
He has a cautious view of future trading due to the softness of traffic and yields and he expects the weak demand 
to continue.
During the last two months Ryanair has bought 37.6 million or 2.5% of its shares for around 187 million.
Excess baggage helps Ryanair jet to new profit record
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
Breaking News: Lloyds TSB sells Abbey Life
Breaking News: Lloyds TSB sells Abbey Life
Citywire
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 7:41 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 653 words
Body
Lloyds TSB sells Abbey Life for £977 million cash, BSkyB in agreed £125 million bid for Amstrad, HMV sells Japan 
business for £70 million and National Grid sells Basslink for £485 million.
* BSkyB in £125 million bid for Amstrad; agreed offer values Amstrad shares at 150p; 44.8% of Amstrad 
shareholders have so far accepted the offer * National Grid sells Basslink Electricity Interconnector for £485 million 
* Lloyds TSB first-half pre-tax profit £1.993 billion, up 12%; dividend 11.2p, up 5%; sells Abbey Life to Deutsche 
Bank for £977 million in cash; sees £45 million insured loss from UK floods; pays £36 million to settle overdraft 
claims in first half ; Scottish Widows first-half new business sales up 8%; first-half pre-tax profit excluding volatility 
£2.010 billion, up 15%; total income £5.590 billion, up 8%; operating expenses £2.760 billion, up 6%; impairment 
losses £627 million, down 1% * HMV sells Japan business to DSM Investments for £70 million; to use proceeds to 
pay down group debt * Woolworths eight weeks to July 28 retail like-for-like sales up 3.7%; 25 weeks to July 28 
retail like-for-like sales up 0.7%; margin in line with internal targets; EUK 25 weeks to July 28 sales up 36.2%; 
2Entertain 25 weeks to July 28 sales up 20.1% * St James's Place first-half eev pre-tax £133.6 million vs £84.6 
million; total new ape business up 33% to £213.5 million; end first-half net asset value 239.6p vs 196.5p; interim 
dividend up 17% to 1.75p; sees new business growth for full year at top of 15-20%-a-year target; full-year dividend 
to rise by around 17% * Ryanair first-quarter profits up 20% to 139 million; passengers up 18% to 12.6 million; sees 
full-year net profit rising 10% vs previous guidance 5%; outlook remains cautious; expects weaker demand to 
continue and passenger volumes this winter to grow slower, by 18%; sees second-quarter yields slightly down and 
second-half yields to fall 5-10% vs last year * Rexam first-half underlying pre-tax profit down to £98 million from 
£121 million; sales from ongoing operations up to £1.66 billion from £1.58 billion; had a challenging first-half; is now 
well position for future; anticipates full-year will be in line with internal expectations; dividend up to 8.3p from 7.9p * 
PZ Cussons full-year pre-tax pre-exceptionals £68.3 million, up 7%; pre-tax £67.9 million vs £61.2 million; sales up 
7% at £577.9 million; dividend raised 10% to 4.27p; overall performance since year-end in line with company 
expectations * AngloGold Ashanti second-quarter adjusted headline earnings $82 million vs $98 million; chief 
executive Bobby Godsell to retire replaced by mark Cutifani; second-quarter output up slightly ; sees production 
costs down * Kazakhmys first-half copper cathode production 190,428 tonnes; second-quarter output 91,342 
tonnes; zinc in concentrate production rises 4% * Games Workshop full-year pre-tax loss £2.9 million vs profit £3.7 
million; dividend 4.95p; sees trading challenging in short term * Elementis first-half pre-tax profit £19.6 million vs 
£14.4 million; sales £197.7 million vs £210.9 million; interim dividend 1.3p vs 1.2p; sees good market dynamics in 
first-half continuing in second half * Greggs first-half pre-tax rises 18.3% to £14.8 million; lifts interim dividend 21% 
to 46p; like-for-like sales up 4.1% in first five weeks of second half; cautions trading in second-half likely to near flat 
year-on-year on costs * Bodycote International first-half headline pre-tax profit £43.2 million vs £35.1 million; pre-tax 
Breaking News: Lloyds TSB sells Abbey Life
profit £42.6 million vs £34.8 million; interim dividend 2.75p vs 2.5p; first-half revenue up 14% to £317.6 million; 
confident full-year will be in line with expectations * Rotork appoints Peter France chief operating officer; sees 
further growth in second-half despite weak dollar * German June retail sales up 0.7% vs May, down 0.8% year-on-
year * ABN Amro sells Interbank and DMC Group to Sofinco
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to park planes in protest
Ryanair to park planes in protest
Business World (Digest) 
July 31, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 128 words
Highlight: Ryanair said it plans to sit 7 of its 40 Stansted aircraft on the ground in protest over the airport's charges.
Body
Ryanair today said it plans to sit 7 of its 40 Stansted based aircraft on the ground in protest over the airport's 
charges.
It said it will park the aircraft because Stansted's higher airport charges make it more profitable to ground these 
aircraft during the winter rather than fly them.
Ryanair said it will continue to press for the break up of the BAA airport monopoly in Britain which provides "abject 
facilities, a third rate service and charges extortionate prices, particularly at Stansted".
 "We continue to oppose the BAA airport monopoly's plans to waste £4bn on building a second runway and terminal 
at Stansted. BAA Stansted doubling of airport charges since April 07 have caused traffic declines at Stansted for 
the first time in 15 years," Mr O'Leary said.
Load-Date: August 2, 2007
End of Document
Broker Roundup: Goldman flies with easyJet
Broker Roundup: Goldman flies with easyJet
Citywire
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 9:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 408 words
Body
Goldman Sachs has upgraded its rating for easyJet to buy from neutral with a 563p target price.
Among other recommendations:
* Panmure Gordon has a buy for 4Imprint raising target to 610p from 600p, a sell for HMV, cutting target to 100p 
from 115p, a buy and 340p target for ITM Power, a hold for Lloyds TSB, cutting target to 550p from 566p, a buy and 
425p target for Restaurant Group, a buy and 7 target for Ryanair, a buy and 650p target for Sci Entertainment, a 
buy and 560p target for St James's Place, a buy and 29p target for Woolworths and a buy and 336p target for 
Xchanging
* Numis upgrades Beazley to buy from add with a 200p target, BSkyB to add from hold 801p, Rotork to buy from 
add £11.09 and Woolworths to hold from reduce 25p.The broker has downgraded Bodycote to hold from add 295p, 
Greggs to reduce from hold £44.70 and HMV to sell from reduce 80p
* Seymour Pierce has a buy for African Eagle and holds for e-pay Asia, HMV, Rexam and Woolworths
* KBC Peel Hunt has buys for Corin Group, Holidaybreak and Woolworths
* Collins Stewart has a hold and 604p target for Lloyds TSB and a buy for Imagesound
* Bridgewell Securities upgrades Xchanging to buy from overweight, reiterates neutral Corin, has a neutral for DIC 
Entertainment, an overweight for Fidessa, a buy for Invista RE, an underweight for Rotork, preferring Spirax Sarco 
(neutral), a sell for Spring Group and a neutral for Taylor Wimpey
* Evolution Securities upgrades Taylor Wimpey to buy from add with a 350p target, reiterates buy GlaxoSmithKline 
with a £16.20 target, a buy and 570p target for Rexam, a buy and 350p target for Bodycote, a sell and £14.76 for 
Cairn Energy, a buy and 140p target for HMV and a buy and 80p target for OMG
* Altium reiterates add Dimension Data raising target to 60p from 55p
* Credit Suisse downgrades Unilever to underperform from neutral
* Goldman Sachs upgrades Bradford & Bingley to neutral from sell and reiterates neutral for HSBC, raising target to 
£10.28 from £10.02
Broker Roundup: Goldman flies with easyJet
* Merrill Lynch upgrades Alliance & Leicester to neutral from sell, reiterates sell GlaxoSmithKline, cutting fair value 
to £11.60 and reducing estimates and has a buy for Tesco, cutting target to 470p from 495p.
* Citigroup upgrades Ultra Electronics to buy from hold with a £12.50 target
* UBS upgrades Rightmove to buy from neutral with a 680p target
* Lehman Bros upgrades Pearson to equal-weight from underweight
* Kepler Teather & Greenwood has a hold for Games Workshop
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
Broker Roundup: Cattles 'mooves' up on Merrill upgrade
Broker Roundup: Cattles 'mooves' up on Merrill upgrade
Citywire
July 31, 2007 Tuesday 10:03 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 103 words
Body
Merrill Lynch has upgraded Cattles Holdings to buy from neutral.
Among other recommendations:
* Collins Stewart has a hold and 5.31 target for Ryanair
* Merrill Lynch reiterates buy Lloyds TSB with a 705p target, has a neutral for Woolworths, a buy and 325p target 
for Bodycote, a neutral for HMV, a sell for Kazakhmys, preferring Vedanta (buy), has a buy and 516p target for St 
James's Place, a buy and 400p target for Taylor Wimpey, a buy for Anglogold Ashanti and a buy and 6.5 target for 
Ryanair
* BDS Research has an add and increased 215p target for Pressure Technologies
* SG Securities upgrades Pearson to hold from sell
Load-Date: August 3, 2007
End of Document
Ryan's Mexican airline to launch soon
Ryan's Mexican airline to launch soon
Business World (Digest) 
July 30, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 522 words
Highlight: Dr Tony Ryan, the founder of Ryanair, is set to export the Irish no-frills carrier model to the Americas.
Body
Dr Tony Ryan, the founder of Ryanair, is set to export the Irish no-frills carrier model to the Americas with the 
launch later this year of his new airline serving Mexico and the US.
Viva Aerobus plans to begin flights by November targeting Mexico's huge emigrant population with a low-cost, 
frequent schedule service between major Mexicana dn US cities.
The airline, a partnership between Mr Ryan and the Mexican private bus operator, IAMSA, has signed a deal with 
Austin-Bergstrom Airport in Texas and is looking for deals with other major local airports in the Southern US.
 Mr Ryan, along with Maurice Mason of Kite Investments, have set up a company called RyanMex which will take a 
49pc stake in the new airline with IAMSA holding the remaining 51pc majority shareholding. A press conference in 
Mexico City heard that AeroBus expects to carry 1.5 million passengers in the first year of operation. The airline is 
expected to begin operations in November of this year with two Boeing 737-300s, with the aircraft fleet increasing to 
ten within two years of operation. The airline will cover Mexico City and other major Mexican cities as well as some 
cities in the US, but route details will not be announced until closer to the launch date. Another Irish company, 
PlaneConsult, whose CEO is former Ryanair operations director Conor McCarthy, will provide planning and 
implementation for the start-up phase of the new airline. Mr McCarthy will also be a shareholder in AeroBus. Tony 
Ryan, Declan Ryan and Maurice Mason will represent RyanMex on the board of the new airline, which expects to 
employ up to 500 staff within the first year. Mr Ryan is believed to have invested E40m into the venture. Mr 
McCarthy, who has a 5pc stake in the carrier, says the project is going well and believes the region holds significant 
potential for the low-cost model that has boomed in Ireland and the rest of Europe. Tony Ryan is also an investor 
through his family's investment vehicle Irlandia in Singapore based low-cost airline Tiger Airways, which includes 
cities such as Guangzhou in China among its destinations. Tiger Airways is preparing for an initial public offering 
(IPO) later this year, according to reports from the region. The company's chief executive, Irishman Tony Davies, 
was quoted in the Asian press as saying that the airline would be ready to float by the end of the year. 'At some 
Ryan's Mexican airline to launch soon
point, it will be appropriate to consider raising a very large amount of equity for investment purposes and for aircraft. 
What we are trying to do is to set the foundation, so if the shareholders choose to go to the public market to raise 
money to invest in aircraft, we're well-positioned to justify that,' he said. Mr Ryan has a 16pc stake in the business 
and Singapore Air, one of the world's largest airlines, owns 49pc. Indigo Partners, an investment company founded 
by Ryanair chairman David Bonderman and former America West chief executive Bill Franke, owns another 24pc. 
Irish businessman Charlie Clifton, a former Ryanair executive, helped the growth of Tiger Airways before moving on 
to the low-cost domestic US airline, SkyBus.
Load-Date: August 1, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down 0.5pc as Anglo Irish slumps
ISEQ down 0.5pc as Anglo Irish slumps
Business World (Digest) 
July 30, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 281 words
Highlight: Shares in Anglo Irish Bank slumped by more than 3pc as the Dublin market's recent plunge continued.
Body
Shares in Anglo Irish Bank slumped by more than 3pc this morning as the Dublin market's recent plunge continued.
Having plummeted by more than 600 points last week, the index edged higher in early deals, however, sharp falls in 
the financial sector soon dragged the overall market into the red.
Just after 1030, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 53.80 points to 8,303.60.
 Anglo Irish Bank was down by 52c to 13.16, while Irish Life and Permanent was 25c lower at 16.75. Elsewhere in 
the sector, AIB was down 5c to 18.20 as it prepares to release an interim trading statement later this week, while 
Bank of Ireland dropped 1c to 13.64 after it became the latest Irish lender to confirm that growth in loans to Irish 
borrowers is set to fall dramatically. Shares in Bank of Ireland shares have fallen by nearly 20pc since the beginning 
of the year. Elan was another notable faller after documents released by the US Food and Drug Administration on 
Friday questioned the use of its multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri in the treatment of Crohn's Disease. The FDA said it 
is not convinced that the drug is any more effective in the treatment of the bowel condition than other therapies 
already approved. Shares in the company were down 5pc, or 76c, to 13.05 in Dublin this morning. Other notable 
movers included Siteserv, down 9pc, or 5c, to 0.59, IONA Technologies, down 10c to 3.00 and Ryanair, down 3c to 
4.70, as investors await the airline's first quarter results which are due out tomorrow. Positives were few and far 
between, however, CRH nudged up 13c to 32.15, while Total Produce tacked on 1c to 0.72 after it today 
announced the acquisition of a Dublin-based health foods company.
Load-Date: August 1, 2007
End of Document
Broker Roundup: Panmure recommends St James's Place
Broker Roundup: Panmure recommends St James's Place
Citywire
July 30, 2007 Monday 10:16 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 166 words
Body
Panmure Gordon has a buy and 560p target price for St James's Place.
Among other recommendations:
* Panmure Gordon has a buy for Colliers CRE cutting target to 220p from 270p, a buy and 880p target for 
Cranswick, a buy and 220p target for Creston, a buy and £11.50 target for Fidessa, a hold and 210p target for 
Friends Provident, has downgraded Hansard Global to hold from buy cutting target to 280p from 384p, has 
upgraded Pearson to hold from sell 740p, has a buy and 915p target for Prudential, a hold and 148p target for 
Rentokil Initial, a hold and £14.75 target for Unilever and a hold and 85.4p target for Xansa.
* Exane BNP Paribas has downgraded Shire to underperform from neutral, raising target to £12 from £11.50, 
reiterates underperform for AstraZeneca, raising target to £29.50 from £29 and has an outperform for Rolls-Royce 
cutting target to 626p from 670p.
* UBS has a buy for Ryanair, cutting target to 6 from 7.5
* Altium Securities reiterates hold and 18p target for Internet Business
Load-Date: August 2, 2007
End of Document
N100 Leaders & Laggards
N100 Leaders & Laggards
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 27, 2007 Friday 8:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 253 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Sepracor Inc., Ryanair Holdings plc and VeriSign Inc. pressured the Nasdaq 100 Friday, which fell along with the 
broader market.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, fell 
30.41 points to close at 1,956.19. The broader Nasdaq composite fell 37.1 points to end at 2,562.24.
Concern about the U.S. mortgage and corporate lending markets, as well as mounting concerns that borrowing 
costs would climb for both companies and homeowners, hurt shares.
Sepracor shares gave up $10.97, or 28.7 percent, to finish at $27.29 after the drug developer said second-quarter 
profit fell 44 percent. The company also lowered its earnings guidance for the year.
Ryanair, shares fell $1.60, or 4.2 percent, to $36.21, as the price of oil rose Friday. Higher oil prices typically 
pressure airline stocks, since fuel is one of the sector's biggest costs.
Shares of VeriSign, which manages the ".com" and ".net" domain names registry, and offers network security and 
connectivity services, lost $1.28, or 4.2 percent, to $29.51. The company said Thursday after the closing bell that it 
swung to a second-quarter loss on hefty one-time charges.
On the rising side, Wynn Resorts Ltd. rose $2.69, or 2.8 percent, to $100.35.
Fastenal Co. shares added $1.07, or 2.4 percent, to $45.83.
Celgene Corp. shares added 93 cents to $61.13. On Thursday, the biotechnology company said second-quarter 
profit surged as revenue jumped 76 percent on sales of cancer drugs Revlimid and Thalomid.
Load-Date: July 28, 2007
End of Document
Sepracor , Ryanair and VeriSign , as well as broader market, pressure Nasdaq 100
Sepracor, Ryanair and VeriSign, as well as broader market, pressure Nasdaq 
100
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 27, 2007 Friday 8:59 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 253 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Sepracor Inc., Ryanair Holdings plc and VeriSign Inc. pressured the Nasdaq 100 Friday, which fell along with the 
broader market.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, fell 
30.41 points to close at 1,956.19. The broader Nasdaq composite fell 37.1 points to end at 2,562.24.
Concern about the U.S. mortgage and corporate lending markets, as well as mounting concerns that borrowing 
costs would climb for both companies and homeowners, hurt shares.
Sepracor shares gave up $10.97, or 28.7 percent, to finish at $27.29 after the drug developer said second-quarter 
profit fell 44 percent. The company also lowered its earnings guidance for the year.
Ryanair, shares fell $1.60, or 4.2 percent, to $36.21, as the price of oil rose Friday. Higher oil prices typically 
pressure airline stocks, since fuel is one of the sector's biggest costs.
Shares of VeriSign, which manages the ".com" and ".net" domain names registry, and offers network security and 
connectivity services, lost $1.28, or 4.2 percent, to $29.51. The company said Thursday after the closing bell that it 
swung to a second-quarter loss on hefty one-time charges.
On the rising side, Wynn Resorts Ltd. rose $2.69, or 2.8 percent, to $100.35.
Fastenal Co. shares added $1.07, or 2.4 percent, to $45.83.
Celgene Corp. shares added 93 cents to $61.13. On Thursday, the biotechnology company said second-quarter 
profit surged as revenue jumped 76 percent on sales of cancer drugs Revlimid and Thalomid.
Load-Date: July 28, 2007
Sepracor , Ryanair and VeriSign , as well as broader market, pressure Nasdaq 100
End of Document
ISEQ down 1pc on session, 600pts on week
ISEQ down 1pc on session, 600pts on week
Business World (Digest) 
July 27, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 498 words
Highlight: Shares in Irish Life and Permanent and Anglo Irish Bank took a battering today as the Dublin market 
slumped 1pc.
Body
Shares in Irish Life and Permanent and Anglo Irish Bank took a battering today as the Dublin market slumped by 
another 1pc.
The ISEQ index of Irish shares closed 119.80 points lower at 8,357.400.
The sharp falls took the index's losses for the week to 600 points and wiped just over E1bn more off the value of 
Irish shares.
 That means the market has lost more than E8bn in value since the start of the week and has crashed 14pc in the 
last seven weeks. The falls were in-line with other major bourses around Europe. Wall Street was also lower amid 
fears of rising borrowing costs. Stocks fell across the board in Dublin, however, financials were again hit particularly 
hard. Irish Life and Permanent and Anglo Irish Bank both plummeted by more than 3pc, down 58c to 17.00 and 54c 
to 13.68. Meanwhile, the other banks also ended the session in the red, with AIB down 5c to 18.25 and Bank of 
Ireland down 21c to 13.29. Leading building stocks also fell sharply, with CRH down 2pc, or 68c, to 32.01, Kingspan 
down 29c to 17.47 and McInerney down 1c to 2.16. Grafton closed unchanged at 9.25. Other notable fallers 
included C and C, down 15c to 7.89, Siteserv, down 6c to 0.59, and Iona Technologies, down 25c to 3.10. Ryanair 
fell 11c to 4.73 ahead of its first quarter results on Tuesday. The no-frills airline is expected to post increased net 
profits, although a drop in average fares has also been mooted by analysts. Investors will also be looking for an 
update about the revenue environment for the rest of the year. Elsewhere, Elan was also hit hard, down 51c to 
13.81, after its weak trading update on Thursday led to several leading brokers trimming back their forecasts for the 
drug maker and US drug reviewers delivered a damning verdict on the use of Tysabri to fight Crohns Disease. "It is 
not clearly different from other approved therapies," the US Food and Drug Administration said. The company 
posted a net loss of USD141.1m for the three months to end of June, up from USD90.5m a year earlier. It also said 
that it was pushing back its break even prediction date from the end of 2007 to mid 2008.The disappointing update 
ISEQ down 1pc on session, 600pts on week
prompted Goodbody Stockbrokers to downgrade their earnings per share forecast for Elan for 2007, 2008 and 
2009. Likewise, Davy has increase its 2007 loss forecast for the company from USD11m to USD63m. It said it was 
also making a similar absolute reduction for 2008. On a more positive note, Davy analyst, Jack Gorman, added that 
"the potential upside for Elan remains substantial". Gainers were few and far between, however, Independent News 
and Media jumped by 5pc, or 11c, to 3.13, while IAWS edged up 9c to 15.05 and Irish Continental Group tacked on 
1c to end the day at 24.00. Meanwhile, Petroceltic was up 3pc to 0.15 ahead of its Annual General Meeting in 
Dublin on Tuesday, and Newcourt nudged up 1c to 1.56 despite confirmation that the awarding of a major speed 
camera contract its is bidding for has been delayed by between three and six months.
Load-Date: July 31, 2007
End of Document
Sepracor , Ryanair Holdings , Research in Motion weigh down Nasdaq 100
Sepracor, Ryanair Holdings, Research in Motion weigh down Nasdaq 100
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 27, 2007 Friday 4:46 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 195 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Shares of Sepracor Inc. tumbled to a 52-week low on Friday, helping send the Nasdaq 100 lower in midday trading.
The Nasdaq 100, which is comprised of 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities traded on the Nasdaq Stock 
Market, declined 23.42 points to 1,963.18. The broader Nasdaq composite lost 31.49 points to 2,567.85.
Sepracor declined $10.07, or 26.4 percent, to $28.17, after hitting a 52-week low of $27.73 earlier in the session. 
The drug developer said its second-quarter profit fell 44 percent on hefty costs for research and development.
Irish airline Ryanair Holdings PLC declined for the third day. The shares lost $1.49, or 3.9 percent, to $36.31.
Research in Motion Ltd., which makes the Blackberry, declined $6.71, or 3 percent, to $216.92.
On the rising side, graphics chip maker Nvidia Corp. gained 78 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $45.13.
Marvell Technology Group Ltd., which makes integrated circuits, reversed Thursday's losses and rose 25 cents to 
$18.84.
Celgene Corp. gained $1.32, or 2.2 percent, to $61.52. On Thursday, the biotechnology company said second-
quarter profit surged as revenue jumped 76 percent on sales of cancer drugs Revlimid and Thalomid.
Load-Date: July 28, 2007
End of Document
Midday Leaders & Laggards : Nasdaq 100
Midday Leaders & Laggards: Nasdaq 100
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 27, 2007 Friday 4:46 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 195 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Shares of Sepracor Inc. tumbled to a 52-week low on Friday, helping send the Nasdaq 100 lower in midday trading.
The Nasdaq 100, which is comprised of 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities traded on the Nasdaq Stock 
Market, declined 23.42 points to 1,963.18. The broader Nasdaq composite lost 31.49 points to 2,567.85.
Sepracor declined $10.07, or 26.4 percent, to $28.17, after hitting a 52-week low of $27.73 earlier in the session. 
The drug developer said its second-quarter profit fell 44 percent on hefty costs for research and development.
Irish airline Ryanair Holdings PLC declined for the third day. The shares lost $1.49, or 3.9 percent, to $36.31.
Research in Motion Ltd., which makes the Blackberry, declined $6.71, or 3 percent, to $216.92.
On the rising side, graphics chip maker Nvidia Corp. gained 78 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $45.13.
Marvell Technology Group Ltd., which makes integrated circuits, reversed Thursday's losses and rose 25 cents to 
$18.84.
Celgene Corp. gained $1.32, or 2.2 percent, to $61.52. On Thursday, the biotechnology company said second-
quarter profit surged as revenue jumped 76 percent on sales of cancer drugs Revlimid and Thalomid.
Load-Date: July 28, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ plummets 250pts to 10-month low
ISEQ plummets 250pts to 10-month low
Business World (Digest) 
July 26, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 483 words
Highlight: Another E2.5bn was wiped off the value of Irish shares as the ISEQ index fell to its lowest level since 
October 2006.
Body
Another E2.5bn was wiped off the value of Irish shares today as the ISEQ index fell to its lowest level since October 
2006.
Share prices closed sharply lower as more weak housing data in the US deepened concerns about the credit 
market, while a lack of company specific news failed to rally the bourse, dealers said.
The falls in Dublin were in-line with other markets throughout Europe. 
 AIB was again one of the main contributors to the decline, falling 51c to 18.37, while Bank of Ireland slipped 28c to 
13.74. Elsewhere in the sector, Anglo Irish Bank was down 22c to 14.06, with Irish Life and Permanent 80c lower at 
17.50. Construction shares fared little better with CRH plummeting 106c to 32.75, Kingspan down 56c to 17.79 and 
Grafton down 22c to 9.38. McInerney also fell marginally lower, down 3c to 2.17. Other notable movers included 
FBD Holdings, down 63c to 27.27, Ryanair down 2c to 4.93, C and C down 39c to 8.06, and Paddy Power down 
45c to 23.15. Elsewhere, shares in Elan were down 8c at 14.29 after it said today that losses nearly doubled in the 
first six months of the year to E141m on surging drug development costs. The overall index closed 243.82 points 
lower at 8477.20, having slumped as low as 8,455.84 earlier in the session. The losses mean that the market has 
fallen by almost 500 points this week, wiping around E5bn off its value. Indeed, over E12 billion has been wiped off 
the value of Irish shares in the year so far. One leading economist said yesterday that the Irish stock market is 
currently suffering from "a crisis in confidence that is unlikely to go away soon". Chief economist at Friends First, 
Jim Power, said the "crisis" is coming from international investors who have divested out of the Irish market and into 
other major bourses that offer greater chance of a return. "At one level it is difficult to understand as pretty much 
every Irish company that has posted results so far this year has met expectations, while the overall economy 
continues to do well," he said. He added that he can not see much basis for a change in the current slump, unless 
there is "some particularly positive economic news in the next few months - particularly on the housing market". 
ISEQ plummets 250pts to 10-month low
"The Irish Market is not going anywhere fast, anytime soon," he continued. Investors continue to be spooked by 
fears about the housing market both at home and abroad and also the health of global credit markets. While Irish 
economists continue to forecast a sharp slowdown in the housing sector here in Ireland, new figures released in the 
US yesterday added to the doom and gloom currently surrounding the market there. Sales of new homes in the US 
fell sharply in June for the second straight month to a level just a touch higher than a seven-and-a-half year low, the 
Commerce Department said. This added to continued jitters about the escalating sub-prime mortgage crisis 
gripping the US. 
Load-Date: July 30, 2007
End of Document
Budapest shares TFN at a glance outlook
Budapest shares TFN at a glance outlook
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
July 26, 2007 Thursday 7:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 116 words
Body
Leading shares are tipped to open little changed as investors are cautious in the run up to US durable goods and 
homesales data this afternoon.
In the last session the leading BUX index closed down 1.27 pct at 29,337.67. Turnover was 70 bln forints compared 
to a daily average of 37 bln.
FORTHCOMING EVENTS
Today
-Nothing scheduled
Tomorrow
-The central statistical office KSH releases employment data
COMPANY NEWS
-Drinks manufacturer Zwack Nyrt Q1 2007-08 net 753 mln forints vs 731 mln forints
TODAY'S PRESS
-Ryanair starts new routes from Budapest-Liverpool, Budapest-Glasgow (Magyar Tokepiac)
-Farmers close roads in eastern Hungary in demonstration over disputed on emergency subsidies (Magyar Nemzet)
Load-Date: July 26, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair promoter to invest in India 's SpiceJet - report
Ryanair promoter to invest in India's SpiceJet - report
Thomson Financial News Super Focus
July 26, 2007 Thursday 6:49 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 AFX News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 199 words
Body
Europe's biggest low-cost carrier Ryanair is learnt to be conducting due diligence on Indian airline SpiceJet Ltd, The 
Times of India reported.
SpiceJet is trying to raise 40 mln usd to fund its expansion plans and is mulling over launching overseas services, 
the paper said, adding that the carrier plans to increase its fleet strength to 18 by next year, from the current 11.
According to Indian rules, a foreign airline cannot invest directly in an Indian carrier but its promoters can buy 
shares in their individual capacity, subject to a condition that a 51 pct stake is held by Indians.
Declan Ryan of the Ryan family, who started the airline in 1985, has held talks with SpiceJet management, the 
paper said.
SpiceJet denied that it was looking at Ryan for investment. 'Declan Ryan and another board member of his airline 
were going from London to Australia to attend Tiger Airline's board meeting. We requested them to stopover here 
and look at our model, if there are ways we can further improve our cost efficiency, which is anyway the lowest in 
India,' the paper quoted SpiceJet chief executive Siddhanta Sharma as saying.
Sharma said the airline will continue operating as a standalone model.
Load-Date: July 26, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair set for EU clash over new rules
Ryanair set for EU clash over new rules
Financial Times (London, England)
July 26, 2007 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 259 words
Byline: By ANDREW BOUNDS
Dateline: BRUSSELS 
Body
Ryanair, the Irish low-cost airline, is cruising for another clash with Brussels, this time over the rights of disabled 
passengers to fly.
The European Commission yesterday said airports and airlines in the EU had a year to implement new rules 
obliging them to carry disabled and elderly passengers without restriction.
Under the regulation, wheelchairs should be provided at airports and guide dogs accommodated free.
Yet Ryanair, which in 2005 ordered six blind and three disabled people off an aircraft because they had not pre-
warned staff, said it would maintain a limit of four disabled passengers.
"We comply with all relevant European rules," a spokesman said. "The limit is in place for safety reasons and it is 
going to remain so."
A Commission spokesman said: "Such a rule would have to be justified under international conventions and law."
The Association of European Airlines (AEA), which represents flag carriers, said it had no set restrictions on 
disabled passengers. However, a captain could refuse to take off if he considered cabin crew would be unable to 
evacuate them in the event of an accident.
Ryanair is suing the Commission for allegedly failing to take action over state aid to some airlines and has attacked 
a decision to block its proposed takeover of Aer Lingus, its Irish rival, as politically motivated.
"These regulations make it crystal clear that there will be no discrimination possible between low mobility 
passengers and passengers with normal access to planes," said a spokesman for Jacques Barrot, the transport 
commissioner.
Ryanair set for EU clash over new rules
Load-Date: July 25, 2007
End of Document
CAA calls for end to price controls
CAA calls for end to price controls
Financial Times (London, England)
July 26, 2007 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 683 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE
Body
The Civil Aviation Authority yesterday called on the government to end regulated price controls for both London 
Stansted and Manchester airports.
The move represents the biggest shake-up of the economic regulation of UKairports since the system was 
introduced in response to the privatisation of BAA, the airports group, in 1987.
Currently the CAA regulates the charges imposed on airlines at the three London airports, Heathrow, Gatwick and 
Stansted, which are all owned by BAA, a subsidiary of Ferrovial, the Spanish infrastructure and services group, and 
Manchester airport, which is owned by 10 local authorities led by Manchester city council.
The proposed removal of Stansted from the price control regime has already provoked fierce criticism from its main 
users, Ryanair and EasyJet, which together account for about 85 per cent of passenger volumes.
EasyJet said yesterday that the airline was "wholly opposed" to the proposal to remove price controls at Stansted 
and to depend on market forces in setting charges.
"We know from our booking patterns that Stansted is a partial local monopoly and monopolies need greater price 
regulation, not less," the airline said.
"This also represents a serious failure on behalf of the CAA. The CAA is proposing to remove price controls from 
Stansted partly because it has failed to broker a suitable agreement between Stansted airport and its airline users - 
but this is a failure of negotiation, not the price-control process itself," it added.
"The CAA has effectively said 'it's all too difficult' and is walking away - that is not the role of an economic 
regulator."
Ryanair said it opposed removing price caps at Stansted at the very time when passengers needed protection from 
the "over-charging monopoly" of BAA. It said the CAA was "abdicating its obligation to protect passengers from 
monopoly abuse.
CAA calls for end to price controls
This comes at a time when BAA has more than doubled passenger charges in Stansted in April, which has led to a 
serious decline in passenger numbers, almost a 7 per cent drop comparedto BAA's own forecast numbers."
Ryanair has claimed previously that excluding Stansted from continued regulation would "never work while the BAA 
Londonairports retain their monopoly power and will onlygive BAA a price gouging charter."
The government yesterday launched a public consultation on the proposals, which is due to run to mid-October.
The CAA said that Stansted did not have and was not likely to acquire "substantial market power". Competition law 
was sufficient to address the risk of abuse, while continuing regulation ran the danger of distorting the big decisions 
to be taken on increasing capacity at Stansted, including a second runway.
The CAA also claimed that Manchester airport faced strong local competition in some markets, with strong route 
overlaps in particular with Liverpool and Leeds-Bradford airports.
These competitors were growing much more strongly than Manchester, adding 1m passengers in 2006 compared 
with 250,000 at Manchester.
Manchester drew long-haul passengers from a wide area in competition with Birmingham and Heathrow. It was also 
facing emerging local competition.
Such pressures limited any incentive for Manchester to raise prices "unreasonably", said the CAA.
For Stansted, the regulator claimed it had been unable historically to generate "a reasonable return" on its assets 
and was still not charging up to the maximum level allowed by the present price cap.
The low-cost carriers, which dominated the airport, had shown that they could change services at Stansted in 
response to higher charges and were able to move services elsewhere.
This limited Stansted's current market power. Any incentive to raise prices was reduced by the sensitivity of profits 
to small changes in passenger numbers.
The CAA said that "on balance the airport is unlikely to hold market power for the foreseeable future".
The leading UK airports face a period of unprecedented change with the BAA London airports monopoly also under 
investigation by the Competition Commission amid calls for a break-up of the monopoly, a move urged by many UK 
airlines.
Load-Date: July 25, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down another 2pc as banks plummet
ISEQ down another 2pc as banks plummet
Business World (Digest) 
July 26, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 137 words
Highlight: The Dublin market plummeted by a further 2pc today, in-line with other European bourses.
Body
The Dublin market plummeted by a further 2pc today, in-line with other European bourses, amid continued fears 
about the US mortgage market.
Just after 1300, the ISEQ index was down 182.61 points to 8,538.41.
The market has now lost around 500 points this week, wiping almost E6bn off the value of Irish shares.
 As has been the norm this week, financials were the biggest fallers. AIB was down 30c to 18.59, while Bank of 
Ireland slumped 32c to 13.82 and Anglo Irish Bank fell 45c to 13.83. Irish Life and Permanent was 41c lower at 
17.92. Construction shares were also deep in negative territory, with Kingspan down 68c to 17.68, CRH down 101c 
to 32.74 and Grafton down 37c to 9.30. McInerney was 1c lower at 2.17. Other notable movers included Ryanair, 
down 7c to 4.93, Elan, down 36c to 14.06, and C and C, down 43c to 8.18.
Load-Date: July 30, 2007
End of Document
EU gives more rights to disabled, elderly air passengers starting this week
EU gives more rights to disabled, elderly air passengers starting this week
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 25, 2007 Wednesday 2:49 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 386 words
Byline: By CONSTANT BRAND, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: BRUSSELS Belgium
Body
New rules aimed at combatting discrimination against disabled and elderly on airplanes go into effect this week for 
flights from European airports, EU officials said Wednesday.
The EU rules, to be phased in starting Thursday across the 27-nation bloc, offer guarantees to disabled and 
impaired travelers, including free use of wheelchairs and other necessary assistance, to get to the plane. They also 
ban airlines, tour agents and operators from refusing to carry passengers because of their "reduced mobility."
EU Transport Commissioner Jacques Barrot said Wednesday the rules would end discrimination and "give disabled 
and elderly passengers the help they need" when booking or taking a flight.
The measures bring rights for disabled travelers up to date with other EU passenger rights and guidelines in force 
since 2005, the European Commission said, and will force an end to discount airlines restricting disabled-passenger 
numbers and charging customers for using wheelchairs.
Around 10 percent of the EU's 490 million citizens are affected by reduced mobility, the commission said.
Passenger complaints should be filed with the airline, airport and national complaint centers being set up, and EU 
member states will EU member states will be able to set fines or other sanctions for failure to comply, EU 
spokesman Michele Cercone said.
"A person who turns up with a wheelchair has to be able to be accompanied to the plane ... without extra cost," 
Cercone said.
Airports and airlines have one year to phase in the rules, which also include allowing guide dogs access onto 
flights. Airports and planes must be able to equipped to accommodate disabled passengers, for example, with 
elevators and ramps in place for better mobility.
The rules also cover elderly people whose mobility is reduced because of age.
EU gives more rights to disabled, elderly air passengers starting this week
The law was drafted in response to Irish budget airline Ryanair Holdings PLC's treatment of disabled passengers in 
2002. It was widely criticized for demanding a disabled passenger pay to use a wheelchair in the airport a service 
usually provided free of charge. In 2005 it removed several blind passengers from a flight, claiming its could not 
allow more than four disabled people per flight.
Most airlines and airports already provide free assistance to disabled and elderly passengers and back the new 
rules.
Load-Date: July 26, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair unveils flights to Belfast
Ryanair unveils flights to Belfast
Business World (Digest) 
July 25, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 133 words
Highlight: Ryanair today announced 13 new routes that will start in October.
Body
No- frills airline Ryanair today announced 13 new routes that will start in October from its Bristol, East Midlands, 
Liverpool and Glasgow bases, and three new routes from Belfast City Airport. 
The airline also announced that it will reopen 5 routes to Grenoble and Salzburg for this year's ski season. 
Announcing the new routes today, Ryanair's head of communications, Peter Sherrard said, "today's new routes 
include the first Ryanair flights between the UK and the Canary Islands and see the arrival of Europe's lowest fares 
at George Best Belfast City airport, the 136th airport in the Ryanair network. From December, we will also re-open 5 
ski routes from East Midlands, Liverpool and Glasgow to Grenoble and Salzburg in response to last year's huge 
passenger demand for low fares to the slopes."
Load-Date: July 27, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down 2pc as banks take a hammering
ISEQ down 2pc as banks take a hammering
Business World (Digest) 
July 24, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 512 words
Highlight: Around E2 billion was wiped off the value of Irish shares today as the euro stuck close to all-time highs.
Body
Around E2 billion was wiped off the value of Irish shares today as the euro stuck close to all-time highs against the 
dollar and fears grew about the US subprime sector.
The ISEQ index slumped by more than 2pc, or 185.11 points, to 8,829.670.
The ongoing concern surrounding the US subprime sector shows no sign of letting up. The latest bad news came 
today when Countrywide Financial Corp, the largest US mortgage lender, slashed its full-year earnings outlook and 
reported a 33pc fall in its second quarter profits.
 Meanwhile, US building materials company USG reported sharply lower earnings and said the housing downturn 
could continue for some time. This has heightened fears about what the spillover impact will be from the troubled 
subprime sector, which has seen widespread defaulting on mortgages and a subsequent sell-off of dollar 
denominated assets linked to it. The dollar was just off yet another fresh all-time low high against the euro today. 
Fears about the knock-on effects of a mortgage lending slump in the US sent financial shares in Dublin tumbling, 
with AIB and Irish Life and Permanent both plummeting by more than 2pc, down 28c to 19.60 and 48c to 18.38. 
Meanwhile, shares in Bank of Ireland were also sharply lower, down 39c to 14.29, while Anglo Irish Bank, whose 
principal exposure is to property developers rather than homebuyers, also slipped 12c to 14.32. Construction 
shares were also hit hard, with McInerney down 20c to 2.14, Grafton down 3c to 9.87 and Kingspan down 26c to 
18.85. Meanwhile, CRH fell 67c to 34.21 after it this week confirmed the purchase of US-based moulder Carson 
Industries for an undisclosed sum. Shares in drug maker Elan fell by more than 4pc, or 54c, to 14.50 after its US 
partner in the Multiple Sclerosis treatment Tysabri posted disappointing second quarter sales figures for the drug. 
Biogen Idec said today that sales of the drug totalled just USD72 million in the three months to the end of June. 
Goodbody Stockbrokers said it had been expecting global sales of USD89.4 million. Other notable movers included 
paper packaging company Smurfit Kappa, down 17c to 18.50, fencing and scaffolding firm Siteserv, down 6pc, or 
7c, to 0.70, no frills airline Ryanair, down 3c to 4.98, and bookmaker Paddy Power, down 5c to 23.85. Meanwhile, 
ISEQ down 2pc as banks take a hammering
shares in Blackrock International Land fell by almost 1pc to 0.52 on profit taking after Cork-based O'Flynn 
Construction declared a 9.2pc holding in the company on Monday. The stake is currently worth E28.4m, based on 
Blackrock's market capitalisation of E309.1m. Reports say the Cork group has indicated to Blackrock that its stake 
is merely an investment. Elsewhere, there were few positives around, however, software group Iona Technologies 
edged up 7c to 3.47, while Donegal Creameries jumped 15c to 7.10 and Newcourt added on 3c to 1.65. The 
negative close in Dublin was in-line with other major bourses around Europe, with concern about the weak dollar 
and the US subprime market the main catalyst for the falls. Unsurprisingly, shares on Wall Street also pulled back 
sharply.
Load-Date: July 27, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down 0.5pc as banks tumble again
ISEQ down 0.5pc as banks tumble again
Business World (Digest) 
July 24, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 152 words
Highlight: The Dublin market tumbled by more than half of a percent with the financials again falling into the red.
Body
The Dublin market tumbled by more than half of a percent this morning with the financials again falling into the red.
Just before midday, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 55.32 points to 8,959.460.
Shares in Bank of Ireland fell by more than 1pc in the early stages, down 21c to 14.45, while AIB slipped 14c to 
19.84 and Anglo Irish Bank fell 8c to 14.37. Irish Life and Permanent was also sharply lower, down 3.5pc, or 45c, to 
18.42.
 Construction shares were mixed with CRH down 24c to 34.65, Grafton up 5c to 9.95 and Kingspan up 4c to 19.18. 
McInerney was unchanged at 2.35. Elsewhere, shares in IT company Calyx fell by almost 9pc, or 11c, to 1.32 after 
a management buyout was granted approval by the High Court. Trading of the company's shares will be cancelled 
from Thursday 26 July. Meanwhile, other notable movers today include Ryanair, up 3c to 5.05, Iona, up 7c to 3.47 
and Elan, down 53c to 14.52.
Load-Date: July 26, 2007
End of Document
No Headline In Original
No Headline In Original
Flight International
July 24, 2007
Copyright 2007 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: STRAIGHT AND LEVEL
Length: 638 words
Body
All the sevens land at SeattleFor anyone who missed arguably the coolest moment of the recent 787 roll-out 
hoopla, check out Graham Warwick's Woracle blog on flightglobal.com (see picture). Airspace.com correspondent 
Scott Wilson explains how the event at the Seattle Museum of Flight happened: "At 1907h (7.07), a Boeing 707 
belonging to Omega Air Refueling Services landed, followed at 7.17 by an AirTran 717. This continued until 8.17, 
when an Air France 777-300ER arrived. In the end, the 707, 717, 727, 737, 747, 757, 767 and 777 were lined up 
nose-to-tail on the taxiway." It is the first time, says Scott, that Boeing has had every 7-Series airliner in the same 
placeexcept, of course, for the 787, which could not make it.Taking the MichaelWhen Michael O'Leary arrived as an 
earnest, besuited young accountant at Ryanair, it was a bedraggled family firm, flying small aircraft between the UK 
and Ireland. Rapidly moving up the ranks and taking Southwest Airlines' low-fares pioneer Herb Kelleher as his 
mentor, O'Leary turned Ryanair into one of the world's biggest budget airlines. 
In an updated paperback version of her book, Ryanair: the Full Story of the Controversial Low-Cost Airline 
(aurumpress.co.uk, ?7.99), Dublin journalist Siobhan Creaton spins a readable yarn of the company's ascent, really 
getting under the skin of its endlessly quotable chief executive and packing it with anecdotes about O'Leary's 
management techniques and style. New material includes Ryanair's wrangling with Brussels, its bid for Aer Lingus, 
and our scoop about O'Leary's plans for a low-fares transatlantic airline. Buy it to read on your next BA or Lufthansa 
flightjust to annoy them.Wait your turnNever pull rank with an air traffic controller. News reaches us of an incident at 
Heathrow some years back, via a reader who used to pilot a Gulfstream GIV for a Gulf royal - who shall remain 
nameless but is big in the world of gee-gees.Our man's job for the day was to fly his employer to Paris to watch his 
nag in a big race, but with the clock ticking towards his slot and his passenger nowhere to be seen, news came 
through that he was in London having his hair cut.When the royal entourage finally showed up, the window had 
been missed and our correspondent did his best to tactfully explain that there would be a small delay while ATC 
sorted out a new slot.Not good enough, insisted his V-V-VIP: contact the tower, tell them his highness is on board, 
needs to be in Paris urgently for a horse race, and requires an immediate departure. Our man, of course, did as he 
was told. ATC were suitably unimpressed and 90 minutes later, the Gulfstream finally got airborne.Action TomBoys 
who grew up in the late 1960s and 1970s may find Airbus's new boss and former German paratrooper Tom Enders 
reminds them of a favourite toy: the same square jaw, cropped hair and piercing eyes (see picture). Action Man was 
known for being chucked into seemingly impossible situations and dealing with them with ruthless efficiency, usually 
No Headline In Original
before mum called us for tea. Talents that will come in handy down in Toulouse.111 not outTalking of action men, 
the world's oldest airman was at a ceremony in London this month to honour First World War survivors. Born during 
Queen Victoria's reign and seven when the Wright Brothers flew, Henry Allingham at 111 is also the UK's oldest 
man. He joined the Royal Naval Air Service in 1915 as an aircraft mechanic, later serving as a gunner on missions 
over the North Sea. Back then, if he'd known that 90 years later the biggest thing dividing France and Germany 
would be the nationality of executives running an aircraft company, he might have considered the small part he 
played in ultimately securing peace in Europe thoroughly worthwhile.The 777, 767, 757, 747, 737, 727, 717 and 
707 line upEndersAction Man
Load-Date: July 24, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ sinks to 7-month low, BoI slips 2pc
ISEQ sinks to 7-month low, BoI slips 2pc
Business World (Digest) 
July 23, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 498 words
Highlight: The Dublin market closed at its lowest level in more than seven months on the back of sharp falls in 
Bank of Ireland.
Body
The Dublin market closed at its lowest level in more than seven months today on the back of sharp falls in Bank of 
Ireland.
Shares in Bank of Ireland fell by over 2pc today, or 33c, to 14.68 as doubts persist about the Irish housing market.
Other banks were also mostly in the red, with AIB down 7c to 19.98, and Anglo Irish Bank down 10c to 14.45. Irish 
Life and Permanent bucked the negative trend, climbing 21c to end the session at 18.86.
 The ISEQ index of Irish shares closed 12.53 points lower at 9,014.780 - its lowest finish since mid-December 2006. 
The sluggish performance by the financials outweighed modest gains in C and C and Elan. Shares in cider maker C 
and C rose by over 1pc, or 11c, to 8.78 despite the stock being downgraded by Morgan Stanley. Elsewhere, shares 
in drug maker Elan jumped by 24c to 14.88 after it was confirmed that there are now over 14,000 multiple sclerosis 
patients taking it's flagship drug, Tysabri, a year after it returned to the market. Investors had been waiting on a 
Tysabri update for many weeks. Davy said the figures indicate "solid progress". "We remain comfortable with our 
long-term projections for Tysabri - for 2010, global revenues of approximately USD1.6bn and patient numbers 
approaching 60,000," the broker said. Ryanair edged up 2c to 5.02 as investors await the airline's first quarter 
figures, due out next Tuesday. Davy analyst, Stephen Furlong, is forecasting earnings per share of 7.9c (5.6pc) 
growth. "With no real visibility on winter bookings, we expect Ryanair to keep its 5pc profit growth guidance for the 
year," he said. Meanwhile, Aer Lingus was down 1c to 2.50 as the airline prepares to announce its fifth base. The 
former state-carrier hopes that a new base will help internationalise the Aer Lingus brand. Other notable movers 
today included Paddy Power, down 10c to 23.90, amid reports that the bookies had been left feeling under par after 
Ireland's Padraig Harrington won the Open golf over the weekend. Elsewhere, cement maker Readymix edged up 
4c to 2.26, while recruitment group CPL Resources slipped 5c to 7.45 and diagnostics firm Trinity Biotech tacked on 
8c to close at 2.16. Business support services group DCC fell heavily on profit taking after it last week announced 
ISEQ sinks to 7-month low, BoI slips 2pc
the purchase of major UK oil distributor CPL Petroleum. The move has prompted Goodbody stockbrokers to lift its 
earnings per share forecast by 2c (1.3pc) to 159c in full year 2008 and by 4c (2.3pc) to 175c in full year 2009. DCC 
is expected to make several more large acquisitions over the coming months. The lacklustre trading in Dublin came 
against a largely positive Finnish on other major bourses around Europe. Indices in London, Madrid, Frankfurt and 
Amsterdam all closed in the black, while leading US stocks also got off to a bullish start on Wall Street. By the 
Dublin close, US stocks were higher after a fresh round of buyout news offered evidence that Wall Street's 
penchant for deal making hasn't disappeared, dealers said. 
Load-Date: July 26, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to move Tenerife operations
Ryanair to move Tenerife operations
Business World (Digest) 
July 20, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 211 words
Highlight: Ryanair confirmed that it was moving its Tenerife flights to the South
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair today confirmed that it was moving its Tenerife flights from Tenerife North to Tenerife South 
with effect from the 18th October 2007.
Operations to Tenerife North Airport will cease on the 14th October 2007. This change will affect all passengers 
travelling to Tenerife on the Dublin, Shannon and Girona (Barcelona) routes, it said.
Commenting on the move from Tenerife North to Tenerife South, Ryanair's director of scheduled revenue, Sean 
Coyle, said:"This change of airport has come about as a result of requests from passengers to access the southern 
part of the island and we are delighted to say that we have confirmed slots at Tenerife South Airport for the 
upcoming winter season. Tenerife South Airport is the larger of the two Tenerife Airports and would be more familiar 
to passengers who have traditionally travelled with charter operators accessing the more popular tourist resorts on 
the south of the island. Demand for our Tenerife services has been strong over the last 12 months and we expect 
this change of airport to further increase the demand for services. I would therefore advise passenger wishing to 
travel to Tenerife to book their winter seats now as we expect the change in airport will significantly boost demand".
Load-Date: July 24, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down, Elan slump counters DCC rise
ISEQ down, Elan slump counters DCC rise
Business World (Digest) 
July 20, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 324 words
Highlight: The Dublin market modestly in the opening stages as sharp falls in Elan outweighed a solid start by 
DCC.
Body
The Dublin market modestly in the opening stages this morning as sharp falls in Elan outweighed a solid start by 
DCC.
Just before 1000, the ISEQ index was down 26.48 points to 9,141.75.
Shares in Elan slumped by almost 5pc, or 74c, to 14.80 after the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) decided not 
to give Elan and its research partner Biogen Idec the green light for a marketing application for its Crohn's disease 
treatment natalizumab (Tysabri).
 The companies said they will appeal the decision. A ruling is expected by the first quarter of next year, Elan said. 
Davy said the news was "not a huge blow", but cautioned that "it does hurt sentiment ahead of the FDA advisory 
panel meeting on July 31st to consider the US application in Crohn's". Those falls wiped out impressive early gains 
by DCC after the company this morning released a triple whammy of good news. The business support services 
group said trading in the first quarter had been "satisfactory" leading the company to up its Full Year growth 
forecasts. The Group said it now expects to achieve low double digit operating profit growth in the year to 31 March 
2008. Meanwhile, DCC also announced the acquisition of British oil distributor CPL Petroleum Limited for E74.2m. 
Shares were up 3pc, or 68c, to 24.00. Shares in McInerney were also sharply higher for the third consecutive 
session as speculation mounts about a management buyout of the housebuilder. Shares rose by 11pc, or 25c, to 
2.50. This takes gains for the week to almost 30pc. Elsewhere in the construction sector, CRH was down 17c to 
35.73, while Kingspan jumped 25c to 19.05 and Grafton added on 12c to 10.00. Financial shares were mixed with 
AIB up 9c to 20.41, Anglo Irish Bank down 9c to 14.73 and Bank of Ireland up 4c to 15.13. Irish Life and Permanent 
was up 6c to 18.68. Other notable movers included Ryanair, up 6c to 5.03, UTV, up 15c to 5.85, and Paddy Power, 
up 12c to 23.74. C and C jumped 11c to 8.56.
ISEQ down, Elan slump counters DCC rise
Load-Date: July 24, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down 106pts on CRH and Elan
ISEQ down 106pts on CRH and Elan
Business World (Digest) 
July 20, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 315 words
Highlight: The Dublin market was down over a hundred points this evening
Body
The Dublin market was down over a hundred points this evening due to sharp falls from CRH and Elan. 
Just before 4.00pm, the ISEQ index was down 106.34 points to 9,061.89.
CRH was down 78c to 35.12 after one of its main rivals, Cemex, posted a lacklustre trading update for the second 
quarter of the year. Of particular importance to CRH, was the Mexican company's performance in the US and 
Spain. Cemex reported a 19pc decline in US sales, reflecting bad weather and a weak residential market. 
 Elsewhere in the construction sector, Shares in McInerney were also sharply higher for the third consecutive 
session as speculation mounts about a management buyout of the housebuilder. Shares rose by 5pc, or 12c, to 
2.37. Meanwhile, Kingspan jumped 43c to 19.25 and Grafton fell on 3c to 9.85. Financial shares were mixed with 
AIB down 12c to 20.20, Anglo Irish Bank down 3c to 14.55 and Bank of Ireland down 17c to 14.92. Irish Life and 
Permanent was up 5c to 18.67. Shares in Elan slumped by almost 6pc, or 94c, to 14.80 after the European 
Medicines Agency (EMEA) decided not to give Elan and its research partner Biogen Idec the green light for a 
marketing application for its Crohn's disease treatment natalizumab (Tysabri). Those falls wiped out impressive 
early gains by DCC after the company this morning released a triple whammy of good news. The business support 
services group said trading in the first quarter had been "satisfactory" leading the company to up its Full Year 
growth forecasts. The Group said it now expects to achieve low double digit operating profit growth in the year to 31 
March 2008. Meanwhile, DCC also announced the acquisition of British oil distributor CPL Petroleum Limited for 
E74.2m. Shares were up 3pc, or 68c, to 24.00. Other notable movers included Ryanair, was flat at 5.00, UTV, up 
15c to 5.85, and Paddy Power, up 26c to 23.85. C and C jumped 28c to 8.73. 
Load-Date: July 24, 2007
ISEQ down 106pts on CRH and Elan
End of Document
Ryanair teams up with ticket text firm
Ryanair teams up with ticket text firm
Business World (Digest) 
July 20, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 175 words
Highlight: Ryanair has teamed up with mobile technology company Ticket Text.
Body
No- frills airline Ryanair has teamed up with Dublin based mobile technology company Ticket Text to provide the 
carrier's customers with low-cost tickets for concerts, sport, theatres, galleries and exhibitions in Ireland, UK and the 
rest of Europe. 
Through Ticket Text, customers will receive their tickets as unique barcodes sent via text message straight to their 
mobile phone. Customers simply take their phone to the venue and then scan the barcode to gain admittance
Ticket Text's chairman and music industry veteran Tim Delaney said, "I have seen how technology has disrupted 
the music industry. We have now reached the tipping point where technology will start to impact the business model 
of the ticketing industry. Ryanair's participation combined with Ticket Text's innovative ticketing solution will 
contribute significantly to this change. Ryanair has significant presence in all of Europe's key ticketing markets so 
there is a natural fit to be the leading ticket seller in all these markets with more events on sale to be added every 
week."
Load-Date: July 24, 2007
End of Document
McInerney soars 10pc on buyout talk
McInerney soars 10pc on buyout talk
Business World (Digest) 
July 19, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 512 words
Highlight: The Dublin market closed sharply higher last night, buoyed by a 10pc rise in shares in McInerney.
Body
The Dublin market closed sharply higher last night, buoyed by a 10pc rise in shares in McInerney.
The homebuilders' share price soared by an impressive 15pc during the session on speculation of a possible 
management buyout. However, profit taking late in the day left the shares 22c higher at 2.25 at the close of play. 
Rumours about a possible deal first emerged on Wednesday, one analyst said.
Those sharp gains helped lift the overall ISEQ index over half of one percent, or 60.31 points, higher to 9,168.230.
 A strong opening on Wall Street also boosted the market. US stocks moved higher after the release of mostly 
upbeat earnings reports. Investors also digested a good amount of broader economic news, most notable 
comments by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke which indicated that recent weakness in the housing 
market hadn't significantly dented consumption. Back in Dublin, the other construction majors threw up a bit of a 
mixed bag, with CRH slumping 83c to 35.65 and Grafton up 15c to 9.87. Kingspan moved modestly higher, up 39c 
to 19.15, after it confirmed the purchase of a raised access flooring business in Canada - ASPmaxcess - for an 
undisclosed sum. The deal is thought to be small in the overall context of the group.Davy said this week that it is 
expecting "a bumper year" for Kingspan's raised access flooring business. Elsewhere, financial shares also turned 
in a positive performance with Irish Life and Permanent leading the way, up 37c to 18.65. Bank of Ireland added on 
10c to 15.07, while jumped an impressive 26c to 14.76. Elsewhere in the sector, AIB ended the day 13c higher at 
20.33 after M&T Bank, the US institution in which it owns a stake of around 25pc, yesterday confirmed the 
USD555m takeover of Partners Trust Financial Group, another upstate New York bank. Other positive movers 
included bookmaker Paddy Power, up 71c to 23.61, fencing and scaffolding group Siteserv, up 1c to 0.77, and 
drinks group C&C, up 31c to 8.51. Meanwhile, Ryanair ended the session 5c higher at 5.00 after the airline said 
yesterday that it was axing 11 routes and cutting back seven others to make way for 11 new services. On the 
downside, shares in Iona Technologies fell back by over 1pc, or 4c, to 3.72 after it issued a disappointing trading 
update. The company said revenues were up strongly in the second quarter of the year to USD22m. However, 
McInerney soars 10pc on buyout talk
higher expenses meant the firm recorded a pre-tax loss for the three month period of USD846,000 compared to a 
pretax profit of USD78,000 last year. Business support services group DCC was another notable faller, down 15c to 
23.14, as investors wait to hear what the company has to say about current trading conditions at its AGM on 
Monday. Other fallers included AGI Therapeutics, down 7pc, or 13c, to 1.72, IAWS, down 11c to 15.97, and Origin 
Enterprises, down 20c to 3.75. Shares in Elan were unchanged at 15.54 as investors awaited a trading update from 
its US partner in AAB-001 due after the close in Dublin. Dealers said any update on Phase three design and 
timelines would be positively received.
Load-Date: July 23, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair axes 11 routes, cuts back 7
Ryanair axes 11 routes, cuts back 7
Business World (Digest) 
July 19, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 182 words
Highlight: Ryanair said it is axing 11 routes and cutting back seven others
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair said it is axing 11 routes and cutting back seven others to make way for 11 new services.
The carrier said it is ending flights on various dates in October and November on routes between Barcelona and 
Malmo in Sweden, Dublin-Malmo, Dublin-Vasteras in Sweden, Frankfurt-Wroclaw in Poland, Liverpool-Inverness, 
Liverpool-Aberdeen, Liverpool-Kaunas in Lithuania, Madrid-Malmo, Marseille-Malmo, London Stansted-Esbjerg and 
Stansted to Malmo
It said services from Dublin to Grenoble, Hamburg, Porto and Biarritz, from Milan to Valladolid in Spain and from 
Stansted to the French city of Poitiers and Genoa in Italy will begin running on a seasonal basis only, instead of all 
year round, from November. The new routes, which will start between Oct 28 and Oct 31, include Barcelona to 
Basel, Brno in the Czech Republic, Linz In Austria and Poznan in Poland, Bremen in Germany to Budapest, 
Brussels to Pau in south west France, Dublin-Stockholm Skavsta, Stansted to Billund in western Denmark, 
Marseille to Marrakesh and Fez in Morocco and Milan to Lamezia in Calabria, Italy. 
Load-Date: July 23, 2007
End of Document
Aer Arann posts 24pc rise in passengers
Aer Arann posts 24pc rise in passengers
Business World (Digest) 
July 19, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 69 words
Highlight: Aer Arann has claimed to be the third biggest carrier at Dublin Airport, after a 24pc rise in passenger 
numbers.
Body
Aer Arann has claimed to be the third biggest carrier at Dublin Airport, after reporting a 24pc rise in passenger 
numbers for April.
The airline says it carried 47,000 passengers through the airport in the month, compared with 38,000 in April last 
year.
It says the surge in traffic has lifted it past UK carrier BMI as the airport's third largest user.
 The largest carriers at Dublin Airport are Ryanair and Aer Lingus.
Load-Date: July 23, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair censured over CO2 claims
Ryanair censured over CO2 claims
Business World (Digest) 
July 18, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 248 words
Highlight: Ryanair has hit back at the decision by the Advertising Standards Agency to censure the airline.
Body
Ryanair has hit back at the decision by the Advertising Standards Agency to censure the airline over claims it made 
in one of its advertisements.
The Irish no-frills airline had claimed in the advert that the airline industry "accounts for just 2pc of CO2 emissions".
However, the ASA has ruled that the advert breached its rules relating to truthfulness and has ordered the Irish 
carrier not to repeat it.
 The airline has reacted in its usual no-holes barred style by slamming the ASA for "attempting to cover up Greedy 
Gordon Brown's travel tax scam, which was introduced in February and will raise over UK£1bn under false 
pretences from airline passengers this year". Ryanair, which claims to be "Europe's greenest and cleanest airline" 
added that "as part of this cover up, the ASA quango is attempting to suppress factually accurate statements made 
by Ryanair". "The UN's IPCC report confirmed that aviation accounts for 2pc of CO2 emissions," the airline said in a 
statement this morning. The airline's claim that aviation made up 2pc of CO2 emissions was based on global 
carbon dioxide emissions, the ASA said. However, government figures for domestic and international flights leaving 
the UK, put the figure at 5.5pc. Ryanair had been claiming that the ASA was attempting to "suppress" an accurate 
statement, which it would continue to use. Ryanair has said it will continue to use these "factually accurate 
statements" in its advertising for as long as "this travel tax scam continues".
Load-Date: July 20, 2007
End of Document
C&C slips against as ISEQ drops 44 pts
C&C slips against as ISEQ drops 44 pts
Business World (Digest) 
July 18, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 424 words
Highlight: The ISEQ index of Irish shares   ended today's sesison 44.85 points lower at 9,107.92.
Body
Shares at C and C have continued their recent struggle in the wake of the company's warning last week that profits 
for the full year are likely to be hit hard by the recent deluge of bad wet weather in the UK and Ireland and 
increasing competition in the cider market.
The move has led many analysts to downgrade their forecasts for the stock. 
The latest to do so is investment bank UBS. It has downgraded its price target for C and C shares by a quarter. 
 It also says it is lowering its 2008 estimated earnings per share by 20pc and its 2009 estimate by 18pc. Shares at 
the Magners cider producer were down 5c to 8.25 at the close this evening. The overall ISEQ index of Irish shares 
ended 44.85 points lower at 9,107.92. Shares in the financial sector had a mixed session, with Anglo Irish Bank 
leading the fallers, slipping 18c to 14.50, while AIB slipped 7c to 20.20. Irish Life and Permanent, however rose 4c 
to 18.28. Share at Bank of Ireland were down 13c to 14.99 after it confirmed at its AGM on Tuesday that it 
continued to generate good volume and earnings growth in its first quarter and that it remains comfortable with 
earlier guidance of low-double-digit underlying EPS growth to March 2008 Emer Lang, analyst at Goodbody's said 
they are forecasting 12pc growth in adjusted EPS to 162.3c. The bank cited solid economic growth in both Ireland 
and the UK. In Ireland, it noted that employment, retail sales and industrial production remained robust and that 
strong domestic demand continued to underpin economic growth. In the UK, it said economic growth was still solid, 
underpinned by consumer spending. However it also acknowledged that rising interest rates in both markets had 
reduced its rates of volume growth. Meanwhile, shares in the construction sector also put in a mixed performance, 
with CRH falling 33c to 36.25 and Kingspan down 3c to 18.78. McInerney and Grafton both edged slightly higher, 
up 2c to 2.15 and 6c to 9.73 respectively. Other notable movers included Irish Continental Group, down 1c to 23.00, 
FBD Holdings, down 35c to 28.54, and AGI Therapeutics, down 13c to 1.72. Shares at Ryanair were down 1c to 
496 as it hit back at the decision by the Advertising Standards Agency in the UK to censure the airline over claims it 
made in one of its advertisements. The no-frills airline had claimed in the advert that the airline industry "accounts 
C&C slips against as ISEQ drops 44 pts
for just 2pc of CO2 emissions". However, the ASA has ruled that the advert breached its rules relating to 
truthfulness and has ordered the carrier not to repeat it. 
Load-Date: July 20, 2007
End of Document
Mouthwash for Ryanair PEOPLE
Mouthwash for Ryanair PEOPLE
Financial Times (London, England)
July 18, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: PEOPLE; Pg. 16
Length: 130 words
Body
It takes a lot to silence Michael O'Leary, the chief executive of Ryanair. Yesterday, the Advertising Standards 
Authority managed it after responding to complaints about its adverts attacking the recent increase in aviation tax. 
One of these showed the face of the then-chancellor, Gordon Brown, on the body of a cowboy and another a 
cartoon thief. Another included an image of the Pope telling Mr Brown: "Even I can't absolve you of that sin". But 
Ryanair has now been found guilty of not being able to substantiate two of its advertising claims. These were that 
"aviation accounts for just 2 per cent of CO emissions" and that "not a penny (from the recent tax rise) was spent on 
the environment". The advertising regulator has told the airline not to repeat either claim again.
Load-Date: July 17, 2007
End of Document
Nasdaq 100 lifted by XM Satellite Radio Holdings , Discover Holding, CH Robinson
Nasdaq 100 lifted by XM Satellite Radio Holdings, Discover Holding, CH 
Robinson
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 16, 2007 Monday 4:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 262 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Shares of XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. rose on Monday helping lift the Nasdaq 100 higher in midday trading.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, rose 
3.67 points to 2,035.83. The broader Nasdaq composite advanced 2.39 points to 2,709.39.
Shares of XM Satellite gained 50 cents, or 4.1 percent, to $12.79. Canadian Satellite Radio Holdings Inc., a unit of 
XM Canada, reported sharply higher fiscal third-quarter revenue sparked by a rise in subscribers.
Discovery Holding Co., which owns the Discovery Channel, rose $1.20, or 5 percent, to $25.15
Meanwhile, Wachovia Securities analyst Justin B. Yagerman said he believes investors who buy shares of trucking 
operator CH Robinson Worldwide Inc. on their recent pullback will be rewarded The shares advanced $1.63, or 3.1 
percent, to $53.91.
Shares of VeriSign Inc. fell 95 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $32.96.
In a note to clients, Wedbush Morgan Securities analyst Scott Sutherland kept a "Hold" rating on the shares, after 
the company filed delayed first-quarter results.
"While encouraged that new management may derive additional value out of VeriSign, we believe shares are fairly 
valued," Sutherland wrote.
Irish airline operator Ryanair Holdings declined $1.13, or 2.8 percent, to $39.44, extending Friday's losses.
Gilead Sciences Inc., which releases second-quarter results on Thursday, shed 96 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $39.
Questions or comments about this story should be directed to the Financial News desk of The Associated Press at 
212-621-7190.
Nasdaq 100 lifted by XM Satellite Radio Holdings , Discover Holding, CH Robinson
Load-Date: July 17, 2007
End of Document
Leaders & Laggards : Nasdaq 100
Leaders & Laggards: Nasdaq 100
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 16, 2007 Monday 4:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 262 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
Shares of XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. rose on Monday helping lift the Nasdaq 100 higher in midday trading.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, rose 
3.67 points to 2,035.83. The broader Nasdaq composite advanced 2.39 points to 2,709.39.
Shares of XM Satellite gained 50 cents, or 4.1 percent, to $12.79. Canadian Satellite Radio Holdings Inc., a unit of 
XM Canada, reported sharply higher fiscal third-quarter revenue sparked by a rise in subscribers.
Discovery Holding Co., which owns the Discovery Channel, rose $1.20, or 5 percent, to $25.15
Meanwhile, Wachovia Securities analyst Justin B. Yagerman said he believes investors who buy shares of trucking 
operator CH Robinson Worldwide Inc. on their recent pullback will be rewarded The shares advanced $1.63, or 3.1 
percent, to $53.91.
Shares of VeriSign Inc. fell 95 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $32.96.
In a note to clients, Wedbush Morgan Securities analyst Scott Sutherland kept a "Hold" rating on the shares, after 
the company filed delayed first-quarter results.
"While encouraged that new management may derive additional value out of VeriSign, we believe shares are fairly 
valued," Sutherland wrote.
Irish airline operator Ryanair Holdings declined $1.13, or 2.8 percent, to $39.44, extending Friday's losses.
Gilead Sciences Inc., which releases second-quarter results on Thursday, shed 96 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $39.
Questions or comments about this story should be directed to the Financial News desk of The Associated Press at 
212-621-7190.
Load-Date: July 17, 2007
Leaders & Laggards : Nasdaq 100
End of Document
Nasdaq 100 Leaders & Laggards: DISCA
Nasdaq 100 Leaders & Laggards: DISCA
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 16, 2007 Monday 9:21 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 210 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Nasdaq 100 declined Monday, following shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC and Juniper Networks Inc.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market, lost 
4.14 points to 2,028.02. The broader Nasdaq composite lost 9.67 points to 2,697.33.
Ryanair Holdings shares gave up $1.62, or 4 percent, to $38.95, extending Friday's losses. The Irish company 
operates a low-cost airline.
Juniper Networks shares lost 89 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $26.96. The company reports second-quarter financial 
performance Wednesday.
Akamai Technologies Inc. shares dropped $1.38, or 2.7 percent, to $48.92.
On the rising side, shares of Discovery Holding, which owns the Discovery channel, rose $1.51, or 6.3 percent, to 
end at $25.46.
UAL Corp., parent of United Airlines, climbed $1.42, or 3.3 percent, to $44.50.
XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc., which is trying to combine with Sirius Satellite Radio Inc., saw shares add 38 
cents, or 3.1 percent, to $12.67. Canadian Satellite Radio Holdings Inc., a unit of XM Canada, reported sharply 
higher fiscal third-quarter revenue sparked by a rise in subscribers.
Questions or comments about this story should be directed to the Financial News desk of The Associated Press at 
212-621-7190.
Load-Date: July 17, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair , Juniper Networks and Akamai fall, drag down Nasdaq 100
Ryanair, Juniper Networks and Akamai fall, drag down Nasdaq 100
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 16, 2007 Monday 9:21 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 210 words
Dateline: NEW YORK 
Body
The Nasdaq 100 declined Monday, following shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC and Juniper Networks Inc.
The Nasdaq 100, which includes 100 of the largest nonfinancial securities trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market, lost 
4.14 points to 2,028.02. The broader Nasdaq composite lost 9.67 points to 2,697.33.
Ryanair Holdings shares gave up $1.62, or 4 percent, to $38.95, extending Friday's losses. The Irish company 
operates a low-cost airline.
Juniper Networks shares lost 89 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $26.96. The company reports second-quarter financial 
performance Wednesday.
Akamai Technologies Inc. shares dropped $1.38, or 2.7 percent, to $48.92.
On the rising side, shares of Discovery Holding, which owns the Discovery channel, rose $1.51, or 6.3 percent, to 
end at $25.46.
UAL Corp., parent of United Airlines, climbed $1.42, or 3.3 percent, to $44.50.
XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc., which is trying to combine with Sirius Satellite Radio Inc., saw shares add 38 
cents, or 3.1 percent, to $12.67. Canadian Satellite Radio Holdings Inc., a unit of XM Canada, reported sharply 
higher fiscal third-quarter revenue sparked by a rise in subscribers.
Questions or comments about this story should be directed to the Financial News desk of The Associated Press at 
212-621-7190.
Load-Date: July 17, 2007
End of Document
Misappropriating air passenger duty
Misappropriating air passenger duty
Financial Times (London, England)
July 16, 2007 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 10
Length: 148 words
Byline: By TIM MCGOUGH
Body
From Mr Tim McGough.
Sir, I agree with Ryanair's argument that "illegal" government subsidies to rivals should be terminated ("Ryanair 
takes the gloves off", July 11). However, I have no sympathy with Ryanair or any of the other airlines that 
misappropriate air passenger duty when passengers do not board flights, as the duty is only payable when one 
boards a flight, although collected beforehand. This policy should be terminated.
If Ryanair expects governments in Europe to play fair, it should lead by example and be fair to its own passengers 
and reimburse non-payable air passenger duty, otherwise it is quite clear that it is the one benefiting from unfair 
gain. At the moment its claim of a "blatant breach" of European Union law is a bit hollow. Come on Ryanair, charity 
(or fairness) starts at home and treat others as you would like to be treated!
Tim McGough,
Richmond, Surrey TW9 2TJ
Load-Date: July 15, 2007
End of Document
Sunday Papers: tips and comment
Sunday Papers: tips and comment
Citywire
July 15, 2007 Sunday 9:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 342 words
Body
Tips for Caledonian, Inspired Gaming, Royal Dutch, Cannacord, Misys and Tanfield.
SUNDAY TIMESInside the City: * Aviva must live up to its full potential - Caledonian has an enviable track record 
with a five-year total return of 175%
Agenda: * Warner Music/EMI: Edgar Bronfman may be the biggest bluffer in town - Property not as safe as houses 
- Northern Rock would be an attractive acquisition for a larger rival
Other comment: * Sports Direct heads for profit downgrade - How Michael O'Leary spread his wings and took 
Ryanair up with him - Interview John Tiner, who is leaving the Financial Services Authority after four years at the 
top - Heaven and Hell Portfolio: I'm sticking with Standard Life (Money)
SUNDAY TELEGRAPHThe Real Business * Inspired Gaming: a mixture of pub quizzed and technology
Share Tips: * Buy Moneysupermarket.com - Royal Dutch Shell a solid buy at £21.17 - Cannacord a speculative buy 
- Buy Misys for the long-term at 245p - Take profits at ARM Holdings at 153.75p
Business Editor Commentary: * There's still time to stop a new Brown raid on insurance companies' surplus funds - 
Royal Mail: lost in the post - ABN Amro: walk away Sir Fred
Other comment: * Profile Robert Wardle, head of Serious Fraud Office - The record shop's last spin - Profile Sir Ian 
Gibson, the new chairman of Sir Ian Gibson
THE OBSERVERComment: * Rio Tinto's bid for Alcan brings us closer to a metals cartel - BSkyB: nothing but blue 
sky for Murdoch junior - Game's over for US credits
Other comment: * Marks & Spencer rides storm but clouds gather - Halfords is one of a handful of companies that 
display defensive qualities - Northern Foods may sell Fox's Biscuits - Gem Diamonds a gem indeed - Mammon 
interview: Philip Kogan of Kogan Page, the independent publisher
MAIL ON SUNDAY:Midas Column: * Buy and hold Tanfield at 193.75p - Take some profits in Morgan Stanley at 
£17.07
Other comment: * Unilever bosses face axe in savings drive - Interview Vijay Mallya of Kingfisher brewery empire
Sunday Papers: tips and comment
INDEPENDENT ON SUNDAY * Marks & Spencer pulled up by its bikini straps
Load-Date: July 18, 2007
End of Document
Iberia opens up to consortium
Iberia opens up to consortium
Financial Times (London, England)
July 13, 2007 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 22
Length: 291 words
Byline: By MARK MULLIGAN
Dateline: MADRID 
Body
Iberia Airlines of Spain yesterday dropped its guard against a bidding group led by Texas Pacific Group and British 
Airways, offeringthe consortium conditional access to its books.
The move, which comes nearly four months after TPG unveiled an indicative offer worth Euros 3.4bn (Dollars 
4.7bn), is aimed at forcing the private equity group and its partners to commit to a firm bid. However, it also reflects 
growing concerns that a hoped-for rival bidder might not materialise.
Some of the Spanish airline's core shareholders are keen to sell their stakes, but are holding out for an offer of 
more than Euros 4 a share, compared with the Euros 3.6 proposed by the TPG consortium.
Iberia has been delaying its response to the consortium's request for "corporate, accounting, tax and legal 
information" in the hope of drawing out competing approaches, with UK private equity group Apax Partners 
constantly mentioned. There are now hopes that a commitment from the TPG consortium might attract other bids.
However, the TPG group, which includes three Spanish partners, has become increasingly frustrated at the delay, 
and last week set a deadline for the end of July. Iberia said yesterday its board had voted unanimously to withhold 
"sensitive information", but would provide access to "company information that could be of interest in the 
formulation of a binding offer".
It said this authorisation did not "validate the indicative price proposed by the consortium". Some board members 
are known to be concerned about providing too much data to TPG because one of its founders David Bonderman is 
also chairman of rival Ryanair.
TPG said last night it was considering the Iberia response but said it was "looking forward to working with the Iberia 
board."
Load-Date: July 12, 2007
Iberia opens up to consortium
End of Document
Ryanair receives French labour law blow
Ryanair receives French labour law blow
Business World (Digest) 
July 13, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 98 words
Highlight: Ryanair and Easyjet have been ordered to apply French labour laws for workers operating out of the 
country.
Body
Ryanair and Easyjet have been ordered to apply French labour laws for workers operating out of the country.
The decision was taken by France's highest administrative court - Conseil d'Etat, Reuters news agency reports.
The two no-frills carriers had been trying to over-turn a decision taken last year which meant foreign airlines must 
apply French labour laws for crews of aircraft based in France.
 Ryanair claimed that the decree contravened European laws on the free movement of labour and services, Reuters 
says. The court has also ruled that both airlines must pay E2,500 in judicial costs.
Load-Date: July 17, 2007
End of Document
Airport operator Fraport says 6-month passenger count up 6.7 percent
Airport operator Fraport says 6-month passenger count up 6.7 percent
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 12, 2007 Thursday 3:39 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 219 words
Dateline: FRANKFURT Germany
Body
Airport operator Fraport AG said Thursday that more demand for air travel led to a 6.7 percent rise in passenger 
traffic at its six airports in the first six months of the year.
The Frankfurt-based company said 34.1 million passengers flew in and out of its airports in Germany, Bulgaria, 
Turkey and Peru.
The leader remained Frankfurt International, among the three busiest airports in Europe, which counted nearly 25.7 
million passengers from January to June, up 2.5 percent from the same time a year ago.
The European routes were the main growth generator until the end of May, with intercontinental traffic taking the 
lead in June. The company said connections to and from Asia were in high demand.
Traffic also rose steadily at its Hahn Airport, which is served by Ryanair, with traffic up 14.7 percent to 1.93 million 
passengers.
The airport in Lima, Peru, had 3.47 million passengers in the first six months, up 24.4 percent from 2006, while 
traffic at its terminal in Antalya, Turkey, was up 34.4 percent with 2.1 million passengers.
During the first six months of 2007, the company's Bulgarian airports in Varna and Bourgas counted 432,551 
passengers, down 1.8 percent, and 482,848 passengers, up 9.8 percent, respectively.
Shares of Fraport fell 0.1 percent to €51.54 (US$71.06).
On the Net:
http://www.fraport.com
Load-Date: July 13, 2007
Airport operator Fraport says 6-month passenger count up 6.7 percent
End of Document
Airport operator Fraport says 6-month passenger count up 6.7 percent
Airport operator Fraport says 6-month passenger count up 6.7 percent
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 12, 2007 Thursday 4:09 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 204 words
Dateline: FRANKFURT Germany
Body
Airport operator Fraport AG said Thursday that more demand for air travel led to a 6.7 percent rise in passenger 
traffic at its six airports in the first six months of the year.
The Frankfurt-based company said 34.1 million passengers flew in and out of its airports in Germany, Bulgaria, 
Turkey and Peru.
The leader remained Frankfurt International, among the three busiest airports in Europe, which counted nearly 25.7 
million passengers from January to June, up 2.5 percent from the same time a year ago.
The European routes were the main growth generator until the end of May, with intercontinental traffic taking the 
lead in June. The company said connections to and from Asia were in high demand.
Traffic also rose steadily at its Hahn Airport, which is served by Ryanair, with traffic up 14.7 percent to 1.93 million 
passengers.
The airport in Lima, Peru, had 3.47 million passengers in the first six months, up 24.4 percent from 2006, while 
traffic at its terminal in Antalya, Turkey, was up 34.4 percent with 2.1 million passengers.
During the first six months of 2007, the company's Bulgarian airports in Varna and Bourgas counted 432,551 
passengers, down 1.8 percent, and 482,848 passengers, up 9.8 percent, respectively.
Load-Date: July 13, 2007
End of Document
Passengers switch airports after delays at Heathrow
Passengers switch airports after delays at Heathrow
Financial Times (London, England)
July 12, 2007 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 322 words
Byline: By KEVIN DONE
Body
The number of passengers using Heathrow fell last month as travellers switched to other European airports 
deterred by delays caused by tougher UK security rules.
BAA, the airports group, reported a 0.6 per cent fall in passenger traffic in June in all its seven UK airports, the 
second monthly year-on-year decline since April.
Passenger volumes fell by 1.6 per cent in April and rose only marginally by 0.3 per cent in May, apparently 
confirming airline fears that rising interest rates and increases in air passenger duty have slowed demand for air 
travel.
Domestic volumes in June were 3.7 per cent lower than a year ago, and passenger traffic to and from Ireland fell by 
4.2 per cent. North Atlantic traffic in June was flat, as the weakness of the US dollar continued to hit inbound 
tourism.
BAA, which is majority owned by Ferrovial, the Spanish construction and infrastructure group, controls Heathrow, 
Gatwick and Stansted in London, Glasgow, Edinburgh and Aberdeen in Scotland, and Southampton in Hampshire.
Traffic at Heathrow fell by 1.8 per cent year-on-year in June and has declined by 1.2 per cent in the first six months. 
BAA says it is losing market share among transfer passengers to other leading European aviation hubs, led by 
Paris Charles de Gaulle, Amsterdam Schiphol and Frankfurt, because of tougher security rules, which still allow 
only one piece of carry-on baggage and impose strict limits on the amount of liquids carried on board.
Heathrow's reputation is being hit by the problems at British Airways' baggage handling operation, which in the past 
two weeks has struggled to deal with 20,000 misplaced bags. BA's difficulties have had an impact on other airlines 
dealing with transfer passengers with the UK carrier.
Low-cost carriers led by Ryanair and EasyJet have warned about weaker market conditions in particular in the UK 
in recent months and have launched discounted fare promotions to stimulate traffic.
Passengers switch airports after delays at Heathrow
Load-Date: July 11, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair not to fly from Danish airport
Ryanair not to fly from Danish airport
Business World (Digest) 
July 12, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 127 words
Highlight: Ryanair will not be operating routes from Denmark's Aalborg Airport.
Body
No- frills airline Ryanair will not be operating discount routes from Denmark's Aalborg Airport after the airline and 
the airport failed to agree on charges, Danish daily NordJyske said on its website, citing airport director William 
Bluhme.
'We require a payment of 200 dkr a passenger, but Ryanair will only pay 20 dkr a passenger,' said Bluhme. 'As long 
as Ryanair wants positive differential treatment we cannot reach agreement with them.'
He said the airport, in the north of the Jutland peninsula, must cover its costs for handling passengers and 
baggage.
 'All other airlines using Aalborg Airport pay 200 dkr a passenger, and Ryanair must do that as well,' he said. 
Ryanair currently flies from Denmark using Aarhus, Billund and Esbjerg airports, all in Jutland 
Load-Date: July 16, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair told to comply with French law
Ryanair told to comply with French law
Business World (Digest) 
July 12, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 119 words
Highlight: France's highest court has ruled that local labour laws applies to Ryanair cabin staff based in France.
Body
France's highest court has ruled that local labour laws applies to Ryanair and easyJet cabin staff based in France, 
the civil aviation authority DGAC said.
Ryanair has already refused to comply.
The Conseil d'Etat rejected a claim by both low-cost airlines that their cabin staff worked for company headquarters 
outside France and were therefore not subject to French law.
 The court said the operating base of staff was located "where employees work, where they begin their service and 
to where they return once their mission is accomplished". British airline easyJet said it had already started 
conforming to French labour law, but Irish carrier Ryanair said it would take the case to the European Court of 
Justice.
Load-Date: July 13, 2007
End of Document
Dublin market falls by another 1pc
Dublin market falls by another 1pc
Business World (Digest) 
July 12, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 137 words
Highlight: Shares in Dublin tumbled by more than 1pc in the opening hours of trading this morning.
Body
Shares in Dublin tumbled by more than 1pc in the opening hours of trading this morning with financial shares again 
the big losers.
Just before 1100, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 90.82 points to 9,082.51.
Over 4pc, or around E4bn, has now been wiped off the value of Irish shares this week.
 AIB led the fallers in the financial sector, dropping 22c to 19.90, while Anglo Irish Bank fell 14c to 14.20 and Bank 
of Ireland slipped 7c to14.58. Irish Life and Permanent was down 6c to 18.04. Meanwhile, construction shares 
started in a sluggish manner, with CRH down 4c to 36.51, Grafton down 53c to 9.87 and Kingspan down 41c to 
19.30. McInerney nudged up 1c to 2.06. Other notable movers this morning included Siteserv, down 3c to 0.74, 
Ryanair, down 9c to 4.99, Dragon Oil, down 16c to 3.17, and Abbey, up 15c to 9.80.
Load-Date: July 16, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair accuses DAA of lies over slots
Ryanair accuses DAA of lies over slots
Business World (Digest) 
July 11, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 256 words
Highlight: Ryanair said that the Dublin Airport Authority told 'blatant lies' to the aviation regulator over slot co-
ordination.
Body
Ryanair said that the Dublin Airport Authority told 'blatant lies' to the aviation regulator over slot co-ordination at the 
airport.
The no-frills airline said that it is calling on the Commission for Aviation Regulation (CAR) to overturn its decision to 
slot co-ordinate Dublin Airport "now that it has been revealed that DAA lied to the Regulator regarding the capacity 
of the runway in Dublin Airport".
"It was revealed in the High Court today that the DAA told the CAR's consultants that the runway is only capable of 
31 aircraft movements per hour and this is what the CAR erroneously relied on to slot co-ordinate the Airport. The 
DAA subsequently told another set of CAR consultants that the existing runway is actually capable of between 36 
and 38 movements per hour," Ryanair said.
 Ryanair were due to start a three day hearing before the High Court today but asked for an adjournment in order to 
submit this new evidence to the court. Ryanair also told the court that it would be calling on the CAR to revoke its 
"erroneous decision" based on this new information. Ryanair's Head of Regulatory Affairs, Jim Callaghan, said the 
DAA lied in four instances in its submissions to the CAR. He alleges that the DAA lied to the CAR and the planning 
authorities about the size of its proposed second terminal (T2), the cost of its proposed T2, the need for an 
extension to the existing terminal and the capacity of the existing runway in order to get the airport slot co-
ordinated. The DAA declined to issue a response to the allegations.
Load-Date: July 13, 2007
Ryanair accuses DAA of lies over slots
End of Document
Ryanair slams EU aid investigation
Ryanair slams EU aid investigation
Business World (Digest) 
July 11, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 313 words
Highlight: Ryanair today condemned the European Commission
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair today condemned the European Commission, which announced investigations into Easyjet's 
cost base at Berlin and Dortmund airports, and Ryanair's costs base at Lubeck and Tampere airports.
This comes after the commission launched a series of investigations into airports around Europe, which it believes 
are offering illegal supports to the Irish airline and a number of its competitors in order to attract business.
Ryanair said it had complained to the Commission over a year ago about "hundreds of millions of euros in illegal 
state aids being granted by the French, German, Italian and Greek governments to subsidise respectively flag 
carriers Air France, Lufthansa, Alitalia SpA and Olympic Airways."
 Th airline said it has repeatedly called on the commission to investigate these claims, but said it failed to do so. 
The carrier says it will sue the EU executive over an alleged failure to take action on aid complaints. In a statement 
the airline said the Commission is ignoring the "blatant State Aid being doled out to Europe's largest flag carriers 
including Air France, Alitalia, Lufthansa and Olympic." Commenting today Ryanair's spokesman, Peter Sherrard 
said, "today's announcement proves that the European Commission has a biased approach to State Aid 
investigations. It continues to ignore billions of state aid to flag carrier airlines in the form of discounted domestic 
charges, exclusive use of terminal facilities and annual bail outs to Alitalia and Olympic Airlines, yet at the same 
time the Commission is wasting time and resources investigating the cost base of small secondary airports such as 
Lubeck and Tampere, which without Ryanair would have no traffic at all, or the main airports of secondary cities 
such as Berlin and Dortmund, which would have far smaller traffic numbers were it not for the services provided by 
Easyjet." 
Load-Date: July 13, 2007
Ryanair slams EU aid investigation
End of Document
Ryanair takes the gloves off
Ryanair takes the gloves off
Financial Times (London, England)
July 11, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 2
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 427 words
Byline: By TOBIAS BUCK
Dateline: STRASBOURG 
Body
Ryanair has opened a new front in its ill-tempered battle with the European Commission, slamming the Brussels 
antitrust watchdog for ignoring "illegal" government subsidies to its rivals.
Europe's biggest low-cost carrier yesterday revealed that it was launching a legal challenge against Brussels to 
force the regulator into action. The move follows Ryanair complaints to the Commission last year about "hundreds 
of millions of euros" in illegal state aid received by Lufthansa, Air France, Alitalia and Olympic Airways.
Jim Callaghan, Ryanair's head of regulatory affairs, said: "The European Commission is more concerned with 
protecting inefficient flag carrier airlines and hub airports than it is with actually promoting competition and 
consumers' interests."
This was a "blatant breach" of European Union law, he said. "How long does one have to wait before the 
Commission takes action?"
The development marks a low point in the troubled relationship between Ryanair and Brussels. Michael O'Leary, 
Ryanair's chief executive, is a longstanding and outspoken critic of the Commission, which he says favours 
established flagcarriers over his airline.
He first clashed with Brussels three years ago when the Commission decided Ryanair had benefited from illegal 
state aid in return for using Charleroi airport in Belgium. Mr O'Leary was again infuriated by a ruling last month that 
blocked his takeover bid for rival Aer Lingus.
A spokesman for the Commission dismissed Ryanair's claims, saying: "The Commission has been dealing with the 
cases both fairly and effectively in accordance with our duties and we are confident that when reviewing our actions 
the court will confirm it."
Ryanair alleges that Air France benefited from "the French government's discounting of domestic airport fees, which 
amounts to an illegal state aid to Air France of approximately Euros 1bn (Dollars 1.3bn, Pounds 676m)". Lufthansa, 
Ryanair takes the gloves off
it claims, profited from government aid for a terminal at Munich airport used exclusively by the German carrier. 
Alitalia and Olympic -Airways, meanwhile, had repeatedly received "massive injections of state aid".
The Irish carrier said it would file a case to the European Court of First Instance, the EU's second-highest court. 
Ryanair is separately challenging the prohibition of the Aer Lingus tie-up.
Separately, the Commission yesterday announced it had opened state aid investigations into four airports in 
Germany and Finland, including Berlin's Schonefeld airport. The cases involve both subsidies to the airports and 
certain airlines that use them.
Load-Date: July 10, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair flies its 150m UK passenger
Ryanair flies its 150m UK passenger
Business World (Digest) 
July 11, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 108 words
Highlight: Ryanair said it had carried its 150 millionth passenger to/from the UK
Body
No-frills Ryanair today said it had carried its 150 millionth passenger to and from the UK since the carrier started 
flying on a route from London Luton Airport to Dublin in May 1986. 
Since then the airline has grown to serve twenty-five countries, carrying 52 million passengers this year. 
Ryanair's head of sales for the UK, Caroline Baldwin, said, "In 1986, Ryanair smashed the BA and Aer Lingus' high 
fare duopoly on the Dublin-London route by kicking off the first ever fare war in Europe. Since then Ryanair has 
steadily grown by offering consumers exactly what they want: the lowest fares, on-time flights and no fuel 
surcharges guaranteed."
Load-Date: July 13, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ plummets by more than 2pc
ISEQ plummets by more than 2pc
Business World (Digest) 
July 11, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 168 words
Highlight: Shares in Dublin plummeted by more than 2pc today, in-line with other leading European markets.
Body
Shares in Dublin plummeted by more than 2pc today, in-line with other leading European markets, amid fresh fears 
about the US housing sector.
Just after midday, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 187.63 points to 9,096.540.
Today's sharp falls mean that the market is down by almost 400 points on the week - wiping around E4bn off the 
value of Irish shares.
 Financial shares bore the brunt of the falls today, with AIB slumping 69c to 19.70, Irish Life and Permanent down 
26c to 17.94 and Bank of Ireland down 22c to 14.70. Anglo Irish Bank was 234c lower at 14.17. Unsurprisingly, the 
concern emanating from the US had sent shares in CRH tumbling. The building materials giant fell by over 3pc, or 
131c, to 36.28. Meanwhile, Grafton was down 14c to 10.23, Kingspan was down 31c to 19.77 and McInerney was 
down 10c to 2.02. Other notable fallers included Paddy Power, down 23c to 22.60, Smurfit Kappa, down 51c to 
18.70, and Ryanair, down 12c to 5.00. IAWS slipped 51c to 15.00, while Elan fell 24c to 15.75.
Load-Date: July 13, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to sue EU over 'state aid abuses' for Lufthansa , Air France , Alitalia , Olympic
Ryanair to sue EU over 'state aid abuses' for Lufthansa, Air France, Alitalia, 
Olympic
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 10, 2007 Tuesday 4:31 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 503 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC, the no-frills airline recently barred by European Union authorities from buying Irish rival Aer 
Lingus, said Tuesday it will sue the EU's executive arm over its alleged failure to enforce competition rules fairly.
Ryanair said it would take the European Commission to the European Court of Justice because it has refused to act 
on at least four complaints filed by the Dublin-based carrier since 2005 involving Lufthansa, Air France, Alitalia and 
Olympic Airlines of Greece.
The EU later unveiled plans hours to investigate the level of government subsidies used to attract Ryanair and a 
British budget carrier, easyJet, to small airports in Germany and Finland.
Ryanair accused France of offering illegal subsidies to Air France's base airports worth €1 billion (US$1.35 billion) 
over the past seven years. It said Germany was being permitted to run up annual losses exceeding €50 million 
(US$68 million) at a state-owned Munich airport "on a new terminal built exclusively for Lufthansa."
The Irish airline also chided EU authorities for permitting Italy to offer billions in bailout money for Alitalia, which is 
expected to be put up for sale soon. And it said the EU should have ordered Greece to reclaim "the multimillions in 
illegal state aid granted to Olympic."
"Ryanair is confident that the European Court will take the (European) Commission to task for their failure to fairly 
enforce the state-aid rules against national governments, who continue to protect their inefficient flag carrier 
airlines," said Jim O'Callaghan, Ryanair's director of regulatory affairs.
O'Callaghan declined to specify when Ryanair intended to begin legal action.
The European Commission which on June 27 vetoed Ryanair's ambition to acquire recently privatized Irish airline 
Aer Lingus said it had not received documentation from Ryanair.
Ryanair to sue EU over 'state aid abuses' for Lufthansa , Air France , Alitalia , Olympic
"We'll of course, once we have received it, carefully study it," EU spokesman Martin Selmayr said. "We believe that 
the commission has been dealing with the cases both fairly and effectively in accordance with our duties, and we 
are confident that when reviewing our actions, the court will confirm this."
Shares in Ryanair fell €0.09 (US$0.12) to €5.10 (US$6.99) on the Irish Stock Exchange.
Ryanair launched a hostile takeover bid for Aer Lingus in October, barely a week after the Irish government floated 
most of its stake on the Irish and British stock exchanges.
Ryanair managed to acquire 25.2 percent of Aer Lingus shares, but faced an uphill struggle to reach the 50 percent 
level necessary for a successful bid. The government, which retained a 25 percent share, and Aer Lingus 
employee-controlled trusts holding more than 15 percent of shares both opposed the Ryanair approach.
In their ruling, EU authorities said a combined Ryanair-Aer Lingus operation would leave the Irish market with too 
little competition. Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary said his company would appeal that decision but expected the 
legal process to take two years, effectively killing the takeover bid.
Load-Date: July 11, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to sue EU over 'state aid abuses' for Lufthansa , Air France , Alitalia , Olympic
Ryanair to sue EU over 'state aid abuses' for Lufthansa, Air France, Alitalia, 
Olympic
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 10, 2007 Tuesday 5:11 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 506 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press Writer
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC, the no-frills airline recently barred by European Union authorities from buying Irish rival Aer 
Lingus, said Tuesday it will sue the EU's executive arm over its alleged failure to enforce competition rules fairly.
Ryanair said it would take the European Commission to the European Court of Justice because it has refused to act 
on at least four complaints filed by the Dublin-based carrier since 2005 involving Lufthansa, Air France, Alitalia and 
Olympic Airlines of Greece.
Also Tuesday, the EU unveiled plans to investigate the level of government subsidies used to attract Ryanair and a 
British budget carrier, easyJet, to small airports in Germany and Finland.
Ryanair has accused France of offering illegal subsidies to Air France's base airports worth 1 billion euros ($1.35 
billion) over the past seven years. It said Germany was being permitted to run up annual losses exceeding 50 
million euros ($68 million) at a state-owned Munich airport "on a new terminal built exclusively for Lufthansa."
The Irish airline also chided EU authorities for permitting Italy to offer billions in bailout money for Alitalia, which is 
expected to be put up for sale soon. And it said the EU should have ordered Greece to reclaim "the multimillions in 
illegal state aid granted to Olympic."
"Ryanair is confident that the European Court will take the (European) Commission to task for their failure to fairly 
enforce the state-aid rules against national governments, who continue to protect their inefficient flag carrier 
airlines," said Jim O'Callaghan, Ryanair's director of regulatory affairs.
O'Callaghan declined to specify when Ryanair intended to begin legal action.
The European Commission which on June 27 vetoed Ryanair's ambition to acquire recently privatized Irish airline 
Aer Lingus said it had not received documentation from Ryanair.
Ryanair to sue EU over 'state aid abuses' for Lufthansa , Air France , Alitalia , Olympic
"We'll of course, once we have received it, carefully study it," EU spokesman Martin Selmayr said. "We believe that 
the commission has been dealing with the cases both fairly and effectively in accordance with our duties, and we 
are confident that when reviewing our actions, the court will confirm this."
Shares in Ryanair fell 0.09 euros ($0.12) to 5.10 euros ($6.99) on the Irish Stock Exchange.
Ryanair launched a hostile takeover bid for Aer Lingus in October, barely a week after the Irish government floated 
most of its stake on the Irish and British stock exchanges.
Ryanair managed to acquire 25.2 percent of Aer Lingus shares, but faced an uphill struggle to reach the 50 percent 
level necessary for a successful bid. The government, which retained a 25 percent share, and Aer Lingus 
employee-controlled trusts holding more than 15 percent of shares both opposed the Ryanair approach.
In their ruling, EU authorities said a combined Ryanair-Aer Lingus operation would leave the Irish market with too 
little competition. Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary said his company would appeal that decision but expected the 
legal process to take two years, effectively killing the takeover bid.
Load-Date: July 11, 2007
End of Document
EU investigates German , Finnish airport subsidies benefiting Ryanair , easyJet
EU investigates German, Finnish airport subsidies benefiting Ryanair, 
easyJet
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 10, 2007 Tuesday 5:33 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 509 words
Byline: By AOIFE WHITE, AP Business Writer
Dateline: BRUSSELS Belgium
Body
EU regulators launched investigations Tuesday into government subsidies designed to attract airlines to small 
airports in Germany and Finland, singling out Ryanair Holdings PLC and easyJet for getting airport fees so low they 
may be illegal.
The European Commission opened separate investigations into Berlin Schoenefeld, Luebeck Blankensee and 
Dortmund airports in Germany and Tampere Pirkkala in Finland, saying it needed to check if low airport fees and 
favorable contracts might be a form of state aid that gives several airlines an unfair advantage over rivals.
If officials find the benefits cannot be justified by EU subsidy rules, the money would need to be repaid to the state.
EasyJet gets special treatment from Berlin Schoenefeld, the EU executive arm said, benefiting from an exclusive 
rental contract for one terminal that may be below fair market rates, while Ryanair pays airport charges at Luebeck, 
Berlin Schoenefeld and Tampere Pirkkala that are well below what other airlines face.
Both airlines have helped revolutionize travel in the region with cheap flights to regional airports that have sent 
record numbers of European passengers to a wider range of destinations.
Eager to pull in new tourist traffic, small airports offer sweeteners to these airlines that have, in some cases, already 
fallen foul of EU authorities. In 2004, Ryanair was ordered to pay back 4.5 million euros it got from Belgium's 
Charleroi airport and change a contract that would allow it recoup up to 90 percent of its costs over 15 years.
The EU's executive arm criticized similar deals on Tuesday. EasyJet got not only low rent, but also a 10-year 
contract from Berlin Schoenefeld allowing it to pay substantially less than airport regulations, it said.
Berlin had gave airport charge rebates and marketing grants to Ireland's Ryanair and Aer Lingus, Basic Air, Fairline, 
Germanwings, Iceland Air, V-Bird and Volare.
EU investigates German , Finnish airport subsidies benefiting Ryanair , easyJet
Ryanair said the probes showed that the European Commission had a biased approach to who it would investigate, 
vowing to sue regulators for not acting on Ryanair's complaints about subsidies paid to rivals Lufthansa AG, Air 
France, Alitalia and Olympic Airlines of Greece.
"This commission is not interested in competition, it simply wants to protect the flag carrier airlines and penalize the 
low fares airlines who are negotiating discounts at secondary airports and passing on those discounts to the 
traveling public in the form of lower fares," it said.
Ryanair has accused the French government of subsidizing Air France's base airports with 1 billion euros ($1.35 
billion) over the past seven years. The company also said Germany was being permitted to run up annual losses 
exceeding 50 million euros ($68 million) at a state-owned Munich airport "on a new terminal built exclusively for 
Lufthansa."
Ryanair is no stranger to run-ins with the European Union. Bitterly disappointed by a rare EU antitrust refusal to 
allow it take over rival Irish carrier Aer Lingus last month, it has vowed to take the Commission to court to overturn 
the block.
Load-Date: July 11, 2007
End of Document
EU investigates German , Finnish airport subsidies benefiting Ryanair , easyJet
EU investigates German, Finnish airport subsidies benefiting Ryanair, 
easyJet
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 10, 2007 Tuesday 5:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 712 words
Byline: By AOIFE WHITE, AP Business Writer
Dateline: BRUSSELS Belgium
Body
EU regulators launched investigations Tuesday into government subsidies designed to attract airlines to small 
airports in Germany and Finland, singling out Ryanair Holdings PLC and easyJet for getting airport fees so low they 
may be illegal.
The European Commission opened separate investigations into Berlin Schoenefeld, Luebeck Blankensee and 
Dortmund airports in Germany and Tampere Pirkkala in Finland, saying it needed to check if low airport fees and 
favorable contracts might be a form of state aid that gives several airlines an unfair advantage over rivals.
If officials find the benefits cannot be justified by EU subsidy rules, the money would need to be repaid to the state.
EasyJet gets special treatment from Berlin Schoenefeld, the EU executive said, benefiting from an exclusive rental 
contract for one terminal that may be below fair market rates, while Ryanair pays airport charges at Luebeck, Berlin 
Schoenefeld and Tampere Pirkkala that are well below what other airlines face.
Both airlines have helped revolutionize travel in the region by pioneering cheap flights to regional airports that have 
sent record numbers of European passengers to the skies on the way to a wider range of destinations.
Eager to pull in new tourist traffic, small airports offer sweeteners to these airlines that have, in some cases, already 
fallen foul of EU authorities. In 2004, Ryanair was ordered to pay back €4.5 million it got from Belgium's Charleroi 
airport and change a contract that would allow it recoup up to 90 percent of its costs over 15 years.
The EU's executive arm criticized similar deals on Tuesday. EasyJet got not only low rent, but also a 10-year 
contract from Berlin Schoenefeld allowing it to pay substantially less than airport regulations, it said.
Berlin had gave airport charge rebates and marketing grants to Ireland's Ryanair and Aer Lingus, Basic Air, Fairline, 
Germanwings, Iceland Air, V-Bird and Volare.
EU investigates German , Finnish airport subsidies benefiting Ryanair , easyJet
Ryanair said the probes showed that the European Commission had a biased approach to who it would investigate, 
vowing to sue regulators for not acting on Ryanair's complaints about subsidies paid to rivals Lufthansa AG, Air 
France, Alitalia and Olympic Airlines of Greece.
"This commission is not interested in competition, it simply wants to protect the flag carrier airlines and penalize the 
low fares airlines who are negotiating discounts at secondary airports and passing on those discounts to the 
traveling public in the form of lower fares," it said.
Ryanair has accused the French government of subsidizing Air France's base airports with €1 billion (US$1.35 
billion) over the past seven years. The company also said Germany was being permitted to run up annual losses 
exceeding €50 million (US$68 million) at a state-owned Munich airport "on a new terminal built exclusively for 
Lufthansa."
Ryanair is no stranger to run-ins with the European Union. Bitterly disappointed by a rare EU antitrust refusal to 
allow it take over rival Irish carrier Aer Lingus last month, it has vowed to take the Commission to court to overturn 
the block.
Announcing its new investigation, the EU said Ryanair has been doing well out of its deal with Luebeck with a 10-
year contract for low fees. Luebeck may also be getting unfair support from the city government which has taken on 
part of its annual losses while the regional government gave it money to build infrastructure.
Regulators also wanted to look into the sales price New Zealand-based Infratil paid for Luebeck airport when it was 
privatized in 2005, saying this might be under the market price. The Luebeck investigation was sparked by 
complaints from a rival airline and from a nonprofit group, they said.
Ryanair also gets an "all-inclusive" charge at Finland's Tampere Pirkkala airport that is different from other carriers, 
the Commission said. Its investigation at that airport will also look at operating aid the airport paid to two state-
owned companies, Finavia and Airpro, and money to transform and run one of the terminals.
In Germany, the Commission will examine incentives Dortmund airport has given to easyJet, AirBerlin, 
Germanwings and Wizzair to launch or expand new routes. The airport's losses may also be unfairly shored up by 
the publicly owned Stadtwerke Dortmund AG, it said.
Load-Date: July 11, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to sue EU over state aid
Ryanair to sue EU over state aid
Business World (Digest) 
July 10, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 219 words
Highlight: Ryanair said it will sue the EU Commission for its alleged failure to take action on state aid.
Body
No-frills airline, Ryanair, today said it will sue the European Commission in the European Courts for its alleged 
failure to take action on state aid to top airlines.
Ryanair said it will pursue the case on the EU Commission's "repeated failure to take action on a number of State 
Aid complaints involving Air France, Lufthansa, Alitalia and Olympic Airways, which were submitted to the 
Commission over a year ago".
These complaints involved hundreds of millions of Euro in illegal state aids being granted by the French, German, 
Italian and Greek Governments to subsidise their flag carrier airlines. Although Ryanair has called on the 
Commission several times to investigate these claims, the Commission has failed to do so, Ryanair said.
 Ryanair's Head of Regulatory Affairs, Jim Callaghan, said: "This is another example of the Commission's twin track 
approach to state aid. On one hand they refuse to take action against serious violations of the state aid rules by 
national Governments to protect their flag carrier airlines like Air France, Lufthansa, Alitalia and Olympic, while at 
the same time they launch bogus investigations against small regional and secondary airports like Charleroi. The 
foolishness of the Commission's Charleroi decision is that Ryanair now actually has a lower cost base in Charleroi."
Load-Date: July 12, 2007
End of Document
E1.5bn wiped off value of Irish shares
E1.5bn wiped off value of Irish shares
Business World (Digest) 
July 10, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 491 words
Highlight: Over E1.5 billion was wiped off the value of Irish shares today as financial shares went into free-fall.
Body
Over E1.5 billion was wiped off the value of Irish shares today as financial shares went into free-fall.
The ISEQ index plummeted by 1.5pc, or 148.80 points to 9,284.17.
Ireland's leading banks were the big losers after a number of U.S. regional banks this week issued profit warnings. 
Institutions such as Ohio-based Huntington and Michigan-based Independent Bank and Citizens Republic 
cautioned that second quarter earnings are likely to miss expectations.
 The news had a detrimental effect on financial shares in Dublin. Irish Life and Permanent was the hardest hit, 
falling 69c to 18.20, while Anglo Irish Bank fell 32c to 14.53 and Bank of Ireland slipped 16c to 14.92. Meanwhile, 
AIB slumped 48c to 20.39 as MandT - the U.S. bank in which it holds a 23.5pc stake - prepares to release its 
second quarter results on Thursday. Troubles across the Atlantic also had a negative impact on shares in Elan and 
CRH. The news that the U.S. dollar had fallen to an all-time record low against the Euro sent shares in companies 
who have a significant exposure to the greenback tumbling. This is because companies are forced to buy dollars 
but report in euros meaning that they lose out in the currency exchange. Shares in pharmaceutical group Elan 
closed 22c lower at 15.99, while building materials giant CRH dropped 39c to 37.59. Elsewhere in the construction 
sector Kingspan was down 51c to 20.08, Grafton was down 12c to 10.37 and McInerney was down 7c to 2.18. 
Glanbia was another notable faller today despite the food group issuing a positive trading update for the year so far. 
The company said it expects it's full-year performance to be at the 'upper end' of market expectations. Earnings per 
share for the full year are likely to be up 20pc, it said. Davy Stockbrokers described the statement as 'very positive' 
and added that it "confirms our positive view of group strategy and the stock's prospect for continual re-rating as 
this strategy is executed'. Shares in the company ended the session 6c lower at 3.96. Ryanair was again hitting the 
headlines today after it confirmed plans to sue the European Commission for what it describes as its 'repeated 
failure' to take action on a number of complaints about State aid to other airlines. Shares in the airline ended the 
session 7c lower at 5.12. Rival carrier Aer Lingus was 3c lower at 2.53. On a more positive note Glencar Mining 
E1.5bn wiped off value of Irish shares
soared by more than 4pc to 0.16 after it reported progress in its African prospects. It reported that 12,500 metres of 
drilling has now been completed at Komana West in Mali, 9,886 metres of it reverse circulation drilling and 2,614 
metres of diamond drilling. Other notable movers included food group IAWS, up 17c to 15.70, scaffolding and 
fencing firm Siteserv, down 5c to 0.75, and Smurfit Kappa, down 12c to 19.21. Business Support Services group 
DCC lost 25c to 24.21, recruitment group CPL Resources slipped 5c to 7.55 and drinks group CandC fell 8c to 9.96.
Load-Date: July 12, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to sue European Commission over 'illegal' subsidy payments
Ryanair to sue European Commission over 'illegal' subsidy payments
Citywire
July 10, 2007 Tuesday 1:44 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 369 words
Body
Still smarting from the EU Commission blocking of Ryanair's proposed takeover of Aer Lingus, Europe's largest low 
fares airline is now planning to sue it for failing to take action on a number of complaints alleging the payment of 
illegal state aids.
Ryanair claims that complaints involving Air France, Lufthansa, Alitalia and Olympic Airways were submitted to the 
commission over a year ago.
They involve hundreds of millions of euros in 'illegal' state aid being granted by the French, German, Italian and 
Greek governments to subsidise their national airlines.
'Although Ryanair has called on the commission several times to investigate these claims, it has failed to do so', 
Ryanair says in a statement. It is taking the matter to the European Courts. Ryanair (RYA) shares slipped 0.0475 to 
5.1475.
It claims that Air France received around 1 billion in 'illegal' state aid because the French government discounted 
domestic airport fees for seven years.
The German government allowed the state-owned airport at Munich to lose over 50 million on a new terminal built 
exclusively for Lufthansa which is effectively a subsidy, says Ryanair.
Meanwhile, the Italian and Greek governments have repeatedly given state aid to their national carriers, 
respectively Alitalia and Olympic.
'It appears as always that the commission applies one rule for the high fare flag-carrier airlines and state-owned 
primary airports, but a different one for low-cost airlines like Ryanair and the numerous regional and secondary 
airports that are offering competition and lower fares to the travelling public,' said Ryanair's head of regulatory 
affairs Jim Callaghan.
The legal move is in addition to Ryanair's response to appeal against the Commission's decision last month to block 
its plan to takeover Aer Lingus which it claims was 'unlawful'.
Ryanair says said the European Commission has spent 20 years encouraging mergers. If combined, Ryanair and 
Aer Lingus would have less than 5% of the European market and the decision to block a deal so small was the first 
ever.
Ryanair to sue European Commission over 'illegal' subsidy payments
Stopping the deal effectively prevented price reductions worth 100 million and left Aer Lingus exposed as a small, 
peripheral loss-making regional airline, claims Ryanair.
Load-Date: July 13, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ plummets 130 pts as banks slump
ISEQ plummets 130 pts as banks slump
Business World (Digest) 
July 10, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 168 words
Highlight: The Dublin market plummeted by almost 1.5pc this morning as financial shares continued their recent 
slump.
Body
The Dublin market plummeted by almost 1.5pc this morning as financial shares continued their recent slump.
At midday, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 128.48 points to 9,304.49.
All the financials were sharply lower, with AIB down 47c to 20.40, Irish Life and Permanent down 32c to 18.57 and 
Anglo Irish Bank down 35c to 14.50. Bank of Ireland was also in the red, down 21c to 14.87.
 Construction shares made a similar start to the session with CRH slipping 53c to 37.46, Kingspan down 41c to 
20.19 and Grafton down 4c to 10.45. McInerney was 5c lower at 2.20. Other notable movers this morning included 
Ryanair, down 5c to 5.14, after it confirmed that it is to sue the European Commission in the European Courts for its 
alleged failure to take action on state aid to other top airlines. Meanwhile, food group Glanbia was down 4c to 3.98 
after the company said today that it expects its earnings per share to grow by around 20pc for the first half of 2007 
but warned of weakness in its UK and US markets.
Load-Date: July 12, 2007
End of Document
EU 'confident' over Ryanair legal action
EU 'confident' over Ryanair legal action
Business World (Digest) 
July 10, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 130 words
Highlight: The European Commission today said it is 'confident' the EU courts will back its decision-making.
Body
The European Commission today said it is 'confident' the EU courts will back its decision-making after Irish low-cost 
carrier Ryanair Holdings PLC announced it will sue the EU executive over an alleged failure to take action on airline 
state aid complaints.
A spokesman for the commission also said the commission had not yet been officially informed of the legal action.
The airline said the complaints, submitted to the commission over a year ago, involve hundreds of millions of euros 
in illegal state aids being granted by the French, German, Italian and Greek governments to subsidise respectively 
flag carriers Air France, Lufthansa, Alitalia SpA and Olympic Airways.
 Ryanair said it has repeatedly called on the commission to investigate these claims, but said it failed to do so.
Load-Date: July 12, 2007
End of Document
Breaking News: M&S sees very challenging short-term trading environment
Breaking News: M&S sees very challenging short-term trading environment
Citywire
July 10, 2007 Tuesday 7:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 23 words
Body
M&S sees very challenging short-term trading environment and Ryanair to sue EU Commission for failing to 
investigate state aid complaints.
Load-Date: July 13, 2007
End of Document
Air Berlin shares soar on takeover rumors, but company says not being courted
Air Berlin shares soar on takeover rumors, but company says not being 
courted
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 9, 2007 Monday 12:33 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 291 words
Dateline: FRANKFURT Germany
Body
Shares of Air Berlin PLC soared on Monday amid persistent rumors that the budget operator could be a takeover 
target for larger European rivals.
The Berlin-based company, Germany's second biggest airline behind Lufthansa AG, said it was not being courted 
by any potential suitors. However, that did little to cool its shares, which were up 4.8 percent at €17.10 (US$23.25) 
by early afternoon.
German news magazine Der Spiegel reported at the weekend that Deutsche Bank AG had acquired more than 10 
percent of the airline's stock and cited speculation that it might sell the stake to Ryanair PLC or Air France-KLM to 
help one of those companies launch a takeover.
Ryanair, Europe's biggest budget airline, declined to comment.
Analysts, however, dismissed the idea of a link-up with either rumored suitor. They noted that Ryanair's business 
model of using smaller airports conflicted with that of Air Berlin, which flies to both big and small airports, and Air 
France-KLM was keeping its focus on expanding its own network.
Deutsche Bank did not comment on the report but Dow Jones Newswires, citing a person familiar with the situation, 
said Germany's biggest bank was holding the shares as asset management positions for several customers.
On Monday, Air Berlin said it carried 2.17 million passengers in June a 13.9 percent increase on the 1.91 million it 
carried in the same month last year. Its passenger load factor increased by a half percentage point to 80.3 percent.
Founded in 1978 and taken public in May 2006, Air Berlin operates flights inside Germany and to destinations 
across Europe and North Africa. On Saturday, it said it ordered 25 new Boeing 787s to augment its fleet of Boeing 
737s and Airbus A319s.
On the Net:
http://www.airberlin.com
Air Berlin shares soar on takeover rumors, but company says not being courted
Load-Date: July 9, 2007
End of Document
Air Berlin shares soar on takeover rumors, but company says not being courted
Air Berlin shares soar on takeover rumors, but company says not being 
courted
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 9, 2007 Monday 7:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 238 words
Dateline: FRANKFURT Germany
Body
Shares of Air Berlin rose Monday amid rumors that the budget operator may be the takeover target of larger 
European rivals.
The Berlin-based company, Germany's second biggest airline behind Lufthansa AG, said it was not in acquisition 
talks. However, that did little to cool its shares, which rose 5.3 percent to 17.30 euros ($23.58) Monday.
German news magazine Der Spiegel reported over the weekend that Deutsche Bank AG had acquired more than 
10 percent of the airline's stock and cited speculation that it might sell the stake to Ryanair PLC or Air France-KLM 
to help one of those companies launch a takeover.
Ryanair, Europe's biggest budget airline, declined to comment.
Analysts, however, dismissed the idea of a takeover by either airline. They noted that Ryanair's business model of 
using smaller airports conflicted with that of Air Berlin PLC, which flies to both big and small airports, and Air 
France-KLM has been focused on its own network.
On Monday, Air Berlin said it carried 2.17 million passengers in June a 13.9 percent increase compared with the 
1.91 million it carried in the same month last year. Its passenger load factor increased by a half percentage point to 
80.3 percent.
Founded in 1978 and taken public in May 2006, Air Berlin flies throughout Europe and North Africa. On Saturday, it 
said it ordered 25 new Boeing 787s to augment its fleet of Boeing 737s and Airbus A319s.
On the Net:
http://www.airberlin.com
Load-Date: July 9, 2007
Air Berlin shares soar on takeover rumors, but company says not being courted
End of Document
BoI slump drags ISEQ into the red
BoI slump drags ISEQ into the red
Business World (Digest) 
July 9, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 511 words
Highlight: A sluggish performance by Bank of Ireland helped drag the Dublin market into the red today.
Body
A sluggish performance by Bank of Ireland helped drag the Dublin market into the red today.
Having traded in positive territory for most of the session, the ISEQ index slipped back late in the day to close 18.19 
points lower at 9,432.97.
The late collapse coincided with a lacklustre opening on Wall Street. Cautious U.S. investors were sitting on their 
hands as several leading companies prepared to report results after the closing bell.
 Back in Dublin, financial shares put in a mixed performance with Bank of Ireland slumping 20c to 15.06 and Anglo 
Irish Bank down 16c to 14.85. Elsewhere, Irish Life and Permanent edged up 5c to 18.86 while AIB tacked on 4c to 
close at 20.81. Shares in C and C also fell sharply ahead of its AGM on Friday. Investors will be looking for some 
kind of management update on how trading has been in the opening months of 2007. Shares slipped 21c to 10.08. 
Other notable fallers included Independent News and Media, down 11c to 3.61, Kerry Group, down 3c to 20.43 and 
Ryanair, down 1c to 5.19. On the upside, shares in Smurfit Kappa soared by more than 3pc, or 57c, to 19.33, while 
Trinity Biotech added on 5c to 2.10 and ICON climbed 40c to 32.05. Elan jumped 25c to 16.22, Dragon Oil added 
on 11c to 3.37 and Origin Enterprises tacked on 10c to close at 3.859. Shares in the construction sector were also 
largely positive, with CRH up 24c to 37.99. The building materials giant was boosted by press reports over the 
weekend of a cement shortage in the North. Goodbody said that this represents 'a key opportunity for CRH', once 
its E200m investment in its Platin works (north of Dublin) is complete. It is estimated that 1mn tonnes of cement 
was imported into the Irish market last year. Elsewhere in the sector, Kingspan was up 15c to 20.60, Grafton was 
up 18c to 10.49, while McInerney bucked the positive trend, slipping 3c to 2.25. Meanwhile, housebuilder Abbey 
was up 1c to 10.09 as investors await its full year results for the year ending April 30 on Thursday. Goodbody 
analyst Peter Gunn said he expects sales growth of around 6pc, with modest price appreciation of 2pc in the UK 
and 4.5pc in Ireland. He has also forecast an increased number of completions in the UK (465 versus 423 in FY06) 
and a reduction in Ireland (270 versus 295 in FY06). 'At the operating profit level, we forecast a decline of around 
BoI slump drags ISEQ into the red
7pc, as margins continue to be squeezed by higher costs, especially on land. Elsewhere, we are expecting solid 
growth at the plant hire business (M and J Engineers), with sales up 4pc and an expansion of the operating margin,' 
Gunn added. Shares in recruitment group CPL Resources fell 5c to 7.55 after it was confirmed that it has bought 
the assets of the Richmond Recruitment Group for an undisclosed sum. Fyffes also slipped into negative territory, 
down 1c to 0.90, on profit taking after the group last week launched its new weekly shipping service directly linking 
Ireland with Canada, the US, South America and the Caribbean. The service will transport bananas and pineapples 
from South America to Dublin Port.
Load-Date: July 11, 2007
End of Document
Broker Roundup: Credit Suisse sweet on Tate
Broker Roundup: Credit Suisse sweet on Tate
Citywire
July 9, 2007 Monday 9:04 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 328 words
Body
Credit Suisse upgrades Tate and Lyle to outperform from neutral, raising target to 640p from 630p.
Among other recommendations:
* Merrill Lynch reiterates buy Aga Foodservice raising target to 495p from 455p and has neutrals for Pearson, 
Partners Group and Sports DirectThe broker has a buy for Premier Foods
* UBS has a neutral for Cadbury cutting target to 695p from 725p
* Deutsche Bank has a hold on United business Media with an 836p target, a hold and 675p target on Burberry, a 
hold and 530p target on ICI and a buy and 510p target for BAE Systems
* Morgan Stanley has downgraded Cable & Wireless to equal-weight from overweight with a 210p target and 
resumes coverage of Ryanair with an equal-weight 6.10 target
* Citigroup upgrades Aga Foodservice to buy from hold raising target to 460p from 425p, upgrades Rexam to buy 
from hold raising target to 575p from 550p and upgrades Xchanging to buy from hold and a 310p targetThe broker 
initiates coverage of Cineworld with a buy and 250p target
* HSBC downgrades Next to underweight from neutral, cutting target to £20.50 from £23
* Goldman Sachs initiates coverage of Meggitt with a buy, Cobham with a neutral and Ultra Electronics with a 
neutral and downgrades Smiths Group to sell from neutral
* Bear Stearns believes the jury is still out on Admiral outlook
* Collins Stewart has a buy and 350p target for Premier Foods
* Arden Partners has a buy for First Property
* Numis has upgraded 2ergo Technology to buy from add with a 300p target, Bovis Homes to hold from reduce 
993p, Debtmatters to buy from add 175p and Primary Health Properties to buy from hold 525p.The broker has 
downgraded Arena leisure to hold from buy 58p, Cozart to hold from add 46p and Taylor Nelson Sofres to hold from 
buy 252p.
Broker Roundup: Credit Suisse sweet on Tate
* Seymour Pierce has buys for Tepnel Life Sciences and Tertiary Minerals and an outperform for Vodafone.
* Bridgewell reiterates neutrals for Taylor Nelson Sofres and Bovis Homes and retains overweight in St Modwen 
properties
Load-Date: July 12, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ soars 1pc, up 200pts for the week
ISEQ soars 1pc, up 200pts for the week
Business World (Digest) 
July 6, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 470 words
Highlight: Banks were the big winners as the Dublin market soared by more than 1pc to end the week on a major 
high.
Body
Financial shares were the big winners today as the Dublin market soared by more than 1pc to end the week on a 
major high.
The ISEQ index closed 96.36 points higher at 9,451.16 - up more than 200 points for the week.
Having traded modestly higher for much of the session, shares rallied in the last few hours on the back of a positive 
opening on Wall Street.
 Banks were the biggest movers, with shares in Bank of Ireland soaring by almost 2pc, or 31c, to 15.26 and Irish 
Life and Permanent adding on 6c to close at 18.81. AIB tacked on 21c to 20.77, while Anglo Irish Bank remained 
unchanged on 15.01. In the construction sector, CRH was up 17c to 37.75, while Kingspan climbed 15c to 20.45 
and McInerney added on an impressive 7pc, or 17c, to end the day at 2.28. Elsewhere, shares in housebuilder 
Abbey fell by 10c to 10.00 ahead of the company's full year results on Thursday. Davy is forecasting a 6pc drop in 
pre-tax profits to E44.4m due to a slowdown in housebuilding. However, Davy analyst, Flor O'Donoghue, said 
earnings per share should remain unchanged from last year at around 115c thanks to the full year effect of the 
share buy-back that concluded in July last year. "Abbey is expected to have completed 750 housing units during the 
year to the end of April, an increase of 4pc on the previous year, with unit sales up 6pc year on year in H2 to 410," 
he said. "Abbey's view on the outlook in the coming months is likely to be brief. It will nonetheless be scrutinised at 
a time when housing markets in both the UK and Ireland are coming under pressure." Abbey's share price has 
taken a beating in recent months and is currently 17pc off its early year peak. Tullow Oil is also due to publish a 
trading update next week. Investors will be looking for an update on exploration activities, rather than other items 
such first half production numbers and product prices, Davy said. Shares in the oil and gas exploration firm closed 
31c higher at 7.71 in Dublin this evening. Ryanair put in a sluggish performance after analysts scoffed at 
suggestions in the media that the no frills carrier is looking to buy a stake in Air Berlin. Analysts at Goodbody said 
ISEQ soars 1pc, up 200pts for the week
today that they would "eat our collective hats if that is true". Shares in Ryanair closed 5c lower at 5.21. Aer Lingus 
was slightly more positive, however, jumping 1c to 2.55 after it told shareholders at its AGM this afternoon that it 
expects to report "mid-teens percentage growth for the full year". Other notable movers included drinks group C and 
C, up 8c to 10.30, ahead of its AGM next Friday, Dragon Oil, up 17c to 3.26, and Donegal Creameries, up 20c to 
6.80 after it released a positive trading update earlier in the week. Norkom edged into the black, up 7c to 2.15, while 
Paddy Power tacked on 5c to 22.83 and Smurfit Kappa jumped 12c to 18.752.
Load-Date: July 10, 2007
End of Document
Felicity heads up Europe for Bedlam
Felicity heads up Europe for Bedlam
Citywire
July 6, 2007 Friday 4:33 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 263 words
Body
Absolute return specialist Bedlam Asset Management has recruited Felicity Smith from Morgan Stanley to head up 
its Europe fund and a series of mandates along with its managing director, Jonathan Compton.
Smith takes on the role of senior fund manager responsible for the Europe fund (Bedlam Europe A) and co-
management of the UK fund and Bedlam 200 fund with Compton. She takes over management of the Europe fund 
from Julian Pendock, who recently left the firm to pursue 'other interests', according to a spokesperson.
Smith's career spans over 20 years including six years as an equity investment director at Morgan Stanley covering 
the British and European equity markets. Prior to this, she was a portfolio manager at IAI for four years and a senior 
analyst at ABN Amro for 10 years.
The company's chief financial officer, Michael Comras, has also joined the board as finance director, after joining 
Bedlam last year. This follows the strengthening of its board earlier this year with the appointment of James 
Osborne, deputy chairman of Ryanair, and Douglas Bonnar, formerly of Chase Manhattan.
Ian McCallum, chief investment officer of Bedlam, said: 'Felicity's expertise on Europe will undoubtedly have an 
impact on our Global fund (Bedlam Global), which is based on best of breed within the company. Her ideas will 
definitely have a positive kick-on effect on the representation of European stocks there going forward.'
Bedlam was established in 2002 by equity investors Jonathan Compton, Ian McCallum and Lesley Cartmell to 
target absolute returns through global stock picking.
Load-Date: July 10, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ higher as banks make strong start
ISEQ higher as banks make strong start
Business World (Digest) 
July 6, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 133 words
Highlight: The Dublin market bounced back from yesterday's losses, with Bank of Ireland and AIB leading the way.
Body
The Dublin market bounced back from yesterday's losses this morning, with Bank of Ireland and AIB leading the 
way.
At midday, the ISEQ index of Irish shares was up 69.48 points to 9,424.28.
Bank of Ireland was the star performer in the financial sector, jumping 30cto 15.29, while AIB added on 24c to 
20.80. Irish Life and Permanent was also in the black, up 21c to 18.77, however, Anglo Irish Bank bucked the 
positive trend, falling 4c to 14.97.
 Donegal Creameries moved sharply higher for the second session running after it this week issued a positive 
trading update for the year so far. Shares were up 3pc, or 20c, to 6.80 today. Elsewhere, Aer Lingus made steady 
progress, up 3c to 2.57, while Ryanair fell 6c to 5.20. ICON climbed an impressive 135c to 33.00. Glanbia soared 
7pc or 29c to 4.07.
Load-Date: July 10, 2007
End of Document
Banks drag ISEQ down 61pts to 9,354.80
Banks drag ISEQ down 61pts to 9,354.80
Business World (Digest) 
July 5, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 523 words
Highlight: Financial shares slumped today after the ECB all but confirmed that it will raise rates again.
Body
Financial shares slumped today after the European Central Bank all but confirmed that it will raise interest rates 
again in either September or October.
As expected, the ECB left rates unchanged at its meeting today, but the bank's president, Jean-Claude Trichet, 
suggested afterwards that financial markets need not change their expectations for future rate hikes.
Another hike in interest rates is bad news for Ireland's banks who are becoming increasingly concerned about a 
slowdown in the Irish property market. 
 Further increases in borrowing costs are almost certain to have a detrimental effect on mortgage lending. Shares in 
Bank of Ireland plummeted by over 3pc on the news, down 31c to 15.11, while Irish Life and Permanent slipped 17c 
to 18.93. AIB fell 5c to 20.55, with Anglo Irish Bank down 10c to 15.10. Those falls outweighed modest gains in 
Paddy Power after the bookmaker today said in a pre-close trading update that it expects a 15pc rise in profits in 
the full year to around E62m. The forecast was well ahead of what analysts had been expecting. Favourable 
sporting results were cited as the main reason for the strong performance. Shares in Paddy Power closed 18c 
higher at 23.00. Shares in Ryanair also ended the day sharply higher, up 2pc or 11c to 5.25, amid speculation that it 
is looking to buy a stake in German budget carrier Air Berlin. A spokesman for Ryanair declined to comment on the 
rumours. Such a move would suggest that Ryanair may have abandoned plans to bid again for Aer Lingus. Shares 
in former state airline fell 4c to 2.54 today. Leading construction shares put in a sluggish performance after figures 
this week showed that builders remained reluctant to commence new projects in June. The latest house registration 
figures from Homebond and Premier revealed a 61pc year on year drop in registrations during the month. Kingspan 
fell 30c to 20.30 today, while Grafton lost 22c to 10.15 and CRH remained unchanged at 37.35. McInerney made 
modest progress, adding on 6c to end the day at 2.12. Elsewhere, Donegal Creameries put in a strong 
performance, tacking on 20c to 6.80, after the dairy group issued an upbeat trading update. The company said its 
year-to-date trading is ahead of last year and added that it is confident of a good full-year result. Other notable 
Banks drag ISEQ down 61pts to 9,354.80
movers included Irish Continental Group, down 10c to 22.90, AGI Therapeutics, up 10c to 1.80, and Dragon Oil, up 
10c to 3.09. Readymix added on 4c to 2.34, FBD Holdings fell 25c to 30.00 and DCC fell 10c to 24.60. CandC 
ended the day unchanged on 10.22. The overall ISEQ index of Irish shares closed 61.50 points lower at 9,354.80. 
The lacklustre trading in Dublin mirrored events across the Atlantic. Stocks on Wall Street fell lower as investors 
remained jittery about rebounding bond yields and data on the US service sector. The Institute for Supply 
Management (ISM) non-manufacturing business index rose to 60.7 in June. Economists were expecting a pullback 
to 58.1 after the surge in May, given weak mortgage demand and retail sales. A reading above 50 indicates growth 
in the sector, while a reading below 50 means contraction.
Load-Date: July 9, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down ahead of ECB rate decision
ISEQ down ahead of ECB rate decision
Business World (Digest) 
July 5, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 203 words
Highlight: The Dublin market slipped slightly lower this morning in sluggish trade.
Body
The Dublin market slipped slightly lower this morning in sluggish trade as investors wait to see what the European 
Central Bank has to say about interest rates.
Just before midday the ISEQ index of Irish shares was down 17.83 points to 9,398.47.
ECB policymakers are all but certain to leave interest rates unchanged at 4.00pc this afternoon. However, ECB 
president, Jean Claude Trichet, is expected to toughen his inflationary warnings to prepare the ground for another 
interest rate increase, probably in September. 
 A decision is due just before 1pm, with President Trichet scheduled to hold a post-meeting press conference later 
this afternoon. Financial shares were slightly lower ahead of the meeting, with AIB down 6c to 20.54, Anglo Irish 
Bank down 6c to 15.05 and Bank of Ireland down 23c to 15.20. Irish Life and Permanent was down 30c to 18.79. 
The sluggish performance by the banks outweighed a positive start from Paddy Power after the bookmaker this 
morning said that profits for the full year are likely to be up by around 36pc to E62m. The forecast boosted the 
company's share price by 13c to 22.95. Other notable movers today included CRH, up 6c to 37.41, Elan, down 5c 
to 16.06, and Ryanair, up 6c to 5.20.
Load-Date: July 9, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair to take stake in Air Berlin?
Ryanair to take stake in Air Berlin?
Business World (Digest) 
July 5, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 129 words
Highlight: Shares in Air Berlin rose today on rumours that Ryanair is interested in buying stake in the German 
airline.
Body
Shares in German airline Air Berlin soared today amid rumours that Ryanair may be interested in buying a stake in 
the German budget flyer.
Just after midday, shares in SDAX-listed Air Berlin were 60c or 3.73pc higher at 16.70.
In Dublin, shares in Ryanair were up 5c to 5.15.
 Several Frankfurt-based traders said they had heard rumours about Ryanair buying an estimated 10.7pc stake, 
which Deutsche Bank AG holds. One trader said he heard that Ryanair was interested it taking over Air Berlin. 
Other industry sources doubted whether Irish-based airline was interested in buying the 10.7pc stake. 'There is no 
truth is this rumour whatsoever,' said a broker in Ireland. 'I find it very hard to believe... it would be unlikely.' Air 
Berlin said it would not comment on the rumours.
Load-Date: July 9, 2007
End of Document
European stocks end higher
European stocks end higher
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 4, 2007 Wednesday 4:48 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 375 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
European stock markets rose on Wednesday, led by shares of hotel companies, after the U.S.' Hilton Hotels Corp. 
agreed to be taken private by private equity firm Blackstone Group LP.
U.S. markets were closed for the Independence Day holiday.
The FTSE 100 Index gained 0.5 percent to 6,673.10 in London, while in Germany the benchmark DAX index was 
up 0.3 percent to 8,075.26, rising for a second day. France's CAC-40 climbed 0.5 percent to 6,098.08.
Hotel stocks dominated in Europe after Hilton Hotels said it agreed to be taken over by Blackstone Group LP for 
US$20.1 billion (€14.78 billion) in cash. The deal values the company at US$26 billion (€19.1 billion) including debt.
"In our view this is a game-changing deal for the hotel sector and will reignite bid speculation for other hotel 
companies," said Richard Carter, a leisure sector analyst at Numis Securities.
Analysts at Merrill Lynch said in a note to clients: "We see this move as positive for the European hotel companies 
with asset backing."
Shares of Accor rose 10.3 percent to €71.56 (US$97.44); Millennium & Copthorne PLC gained 4 percent to 678 
pence (US$13.67; €10.04) in London while Intercontinental Hotels Group PLC, the operator of the Crowne Plaza 
and Holiday Inn hotel chains, gained 3.9 percent to 1,307 pence (US$26.36; €19.36) in London.
InterContinental Hotels were in the spotlight recently after Ellerman Corp., the investment vehicle of the Barclay 
Brothers, built up its stake to 10 percent. The Barclay Brothers already own the Ritz Hotel in the Piccadilly area of 
central London.
Shares in British Airways jumped 5.3 percent after June traffic data showed demand for its premium product up 1.4 
percent.
Low-cost airline Ryanair gained 1 percent after saying it carried 4.35 million passenger in June, up 18 percent from 
a year ago.
European stocks end higher
German shares were led by laundry detergent and soap maker Henkel KGaA, which jumped 3.6 percent to €40.02 
(US$54.50), putting it near a 52-week high.
Automotive parts supplier and tire maker Continental AG rose 1.6 percent to close at €106.34 (US$144.81).
DaimlerChrysler AG dipped more than half a percent to €58.21 (US$79.27) as it reported slower monthly sales from 
its Mercedes Car Group in June and in the first six months of the year.
Load-Date: July 4, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair says its passenger figures rose
Ryanair says its passenger figures rose
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 4, 2007 Wednesday 10:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 120 words
Dateline: DUBLIN Ireland
Body
Ryanair PLC, Europe's largest discount airline, said Wednesday it carried 18 percent more passengers in June, but 
filled less of its capacity.
The total number of people using the airline rose to more than 4.3 million in June compared with 3.7 million in June 
2006, the company said in a statement. In the 12 months through June 30, Ryanair carried 44.4 million passengers.
But June load factor or the number of passengers as a proportion of the number of seats available was 85 percent 
compared with 87 percent the previous year.
Ryanair warned last month that it expected profit growth to slow this year amid an expected drop in ticket prices and 
higher costs.
Shares in Ryanair rose 1 percent to €5.14 ($6US.99) in Dublin.
Load-Date: July 4, 2007
End of Document
Wednesday Closing Market: London shares and pound rise
Wednesday Closing Market: London shares and pound rise
Citywire
July 4, 2007 Wednesday 5:36 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 693 words
Body
British Airways flew to the top of the gainers board in London on Wednesday as its June passenger traffic data 
arrived within the expected range, helping London shares to end a quiet day strongly higher.
For the third time in as many days, the pound touched a 26-year-high against the dollar, hitting $2.021 at 6:07am 
before falling back to around $2.0159 by late afternoon.
Not that there were many Americans around to watch the dollar's ignominious performance, not just against the 
pound but against most major currencies. London was flying solo today, with Wall Street closed for the July 4th 
holiday.
This, coupled with a wait-and-see atmosphere pending tomorrow's Bank of England meeting on interest rates and 
key US employment data due on Friday, kept trading volume to just fair levels, with 2.3 billion shares traded in 
some 396,605 deals.
The FTSE 100 closed at 6,673.1 up 33.3 points within 9.8 points of its session peak, while the FTSE 250 gained 
86.6 points to 11,834.2. The other indices also ended in the black.
A buy recommendation by Collins Stewart on British Airways' shares helped them to climb 5.26% or 22p to 440.5p 
a share. Yesterday's news that the airline had received approval to fly from US cities to continental Europe as part 
of the recently agreed 'open skies' deal between the US and European Union also helped.
Over on the second tier, EasyJet shares were also higher, by 13.5p to 539.5p, while RyanAir Holdings also rose by 
almost 1% to 5.15p.
Hotel shares were in demand as Blackstone's $26 billion acquisition of the Hilton Hotels group focussed attention 
on the sector. InterContinental Hotels Group led the way, the second-biggest FTSE 100 gainer, up 3.9% or 49p to 
£13.07, on the reflected glory of Blackstone's interest in Hilton.
Also sharply higher were shares of Whitbread, the owner of the budget hotel chain Premier Inn. At £18.05 they 
ended the session 52p higher.
Punch Taverns, which topped the FTSE 100 gainers' board on Tuesday, was the third-biggest gainer on 
Wednesday. Investors hope that it will follow sector peer Greene King and find a way to maximise the value of its 
property assets.
Wednesday Closing Market: London shares and pound rise
Other blue chip gainers included British Land, Royal & Sun Alliance, Barclays, Land Securities and Enterprise Inns.
Shares in Aviva rose strongly, by 13p or 1.7% to 768, after UK broker Panmure Gordon pointed out that the UK 
insurance company should sell its non-life insurance business.
'The recent floods, non-life rates in free-fall, and investors ascribing very little to no value of its non-life operation 
make a sale an obvious route to a re-rating of the shares,' Panmure Gordon said in an investors' note.
Over on the decliners' board, mining shares and retail stocks numbered among the fallers, of which there were only 
21.
The vague rumours over the last few days that Xstrata was on the verge of making a bid for Lonmin appear to have 
given way to profit-taking, while continuing downpours across Britain are dampening investors' hopes for sales of 
summer merchandise.
Lonmin, Rio Tinto and Antofagasta were among the miner decliners, while Home Retail Group, Next and Tesco 
also sank. On the mid-cap index, Topps Tiles, Debenhams, Burberry and Signet Group were among the falling 
retail shares.
AVIS Europe was the top FTSE 250 gainer, followed by Domestic and General, G4S, St Modwen Properties and 
Game Group.
The biggest mid-cap casualty of the day was Micro Focus International, the shares of which only yesterday hit a 
new 52-week high of 286.75p. The Newbury-based software company placed 14 million new shares at 260p each 
in the market, raising gross proceeds of £36.4 million while at the same time causing its already outstanding shares 
to slump 21p or 7.4% to 262.25p.
Other FTSE 250 fallers included Venture Production, Hochschild Mining, JKX Oil & Gas and Mondi.
Stock markets in Germany and France followed London's lead in ending the day higher, with the DAX-30 closing 
24.58 points better at 8,075.26, and the CAC-40 28.24 points ahead at 6,098.08. Speculation in the French hotel 
sector, sparked by the Blackstone swoop on Hilton, was cited.
The pound was slightly lower against the euro at 1.4799 from 1.4816.
Load-Date: July 7, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair June seats percentage drops
Ryanair June seats percentage drops
Business World (Digest) 
July 4, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 59 words
Highlight: Ryanair said passenger numbers in June grew 18pc to 4,345,586
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair said passenger numbers in June grew 18pc to 4,345,586 up from 3,670,542 in the same 
month last year, although its load factor -- how full its aircraft were -- dropped 2 percentage points to 85pc.
The carrier also said it carried 44,442,908 passengers in the rolling 12 months to June 30 and its load factor over 
that period was 82pc.
Load-Date: July 6, 2007
End of Document
Banks lead ISEQ higher in light trading
Banks lead ISEQ higher in light trading
Business World (Digest) 
July 4, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 120 words
Highlight: The Dublin market moved sharply higher today on the back of a strong performance by the financials.
Body
The Dublin market moved sharply higher today on the back of a strong performance by the financials. 
Just after midday the ISEQ index of Irish shares was up 58.73 points to 9,425.49.
Volumes were light, however, with US markets closed for the Independence Day holiday.
 Irish Life and Permanent and Bank of Ireland led the way, jumping 30c to 19.10 and 23c to 15.40 respectively. AIB 
was up 13c to 20.62, while Anglo Irish Bank edged up 12c to 15.12. Elsewhere, CRH's solid week continued, with 
shares in the building materials giant up 17c to 37.30. Meanwhile, FBD Holdings was up 40c to 30.45, Ryanair was 
up 6c to 5.15, ICG was up 20c to 23.00 and C and C added on 25c to 10.34. On the downside, Elan was 35c lower 
at 16.05.
Load-Date: July 6, 2007
End of Document
ICTU threatens to scupper EU treaty
ICTU threatens to scupper EU treaty
Business World (Digest) 
July 4, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 83 words
Highlight: ICTU has threatened to campaign for a 'no' vote in the referendum on the new EU treaty.
Body
ICTU has threatened to campaign for a 'no' vote in the referendum on the new EU treaty if any attempt is made by 
the Government to opt out of endorsing the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.
ICTU president Peter McLoone said it would be an outrageous moral lapse if the Government failed to legislate to 
improve workers' rights following a recent Supreme Court ruling in a case involving Ryanair.
Mr McLoone was speaking at ICTU's delegate congress in Bundoran, the theme of which is 'Equality for all'.
Load-Date: July 5, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ closes higher on buoyant Elan
ISEQ closes higher on buoyant Elan
Business World (Digest) 
July 3, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 508 words
Highlight: Shares in Elan soared by almost 3pc today after the company's Tysabri drug received a major boost in 
the UK.
Body
Shares in Elan soared by almost 3pc today after the company's Tysabri drug received a major boost in the UK. 
The drug maker's multiple sclerosis treatment has been recommended for use in people with highly active relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) by the UK's National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE).
The drug is the first treatment for multiple sclerosis to be recommended by the UK government's health watchdog. 
 Guidance from NICE determines whether Britain's National Health Service will fund new drugs and treatments. 
Shares in Elan had been up by as much as 50c during the early part of the session, before slipping back on profit 
taking to close 27c higher at 16.40. Those gains gave a boost to the overall market, with the ISEQ jumping 35.20 
points to end the day at 9,366.76. Trading remained fairly light, however, ahead of Thursday's meeting of the 
European Central Bank Governing Council. Following last month's decision to raise interest rates to 4pc, it is widely 
expected that policy will be left on hold this month. Investors were therefore be looking for any clues about what the 
ECB has in store for rates in the coming months. ECB president, Jean Claude Trichet, hinted recently that another 
hike is likely in September. With the ECB meeting in mind, financial shares put in a fairly subdued performance 
today. Anglo Irish Bank fell 7 to 14.99, while bank of Ireland nudged up 7c to 15.17. AIB and Irish Life and 
Permanent made modest progress, tacking on 17c to 20.49 and 31c to 18.80 respectively. CRH led the way in the 
construction sector, climbing 8c to 37.132, while Kingspan tacked on 8c to 20.70 McInerney fell 11c to 20.70 with 
Grafton flat at 10.63. Other notable movers included insurance group FBD Holdings, down 4pc, or 124c, to 30.05, 
bookmaker Paddy Power, down 3c to 23.02, and airline Aer Lingus, down 3c to 2.60. Irish Continental Group fell 
17c to 22.80. On a more positive note, Ryanair was up 11c to 5.09, Origin Enterprises added on 10c to 3.65 and 
IAWS jumped 9c to 15.82. Elsewhere, having suffered modest falls on Monday, shares in CandC bounced back 
above the E10.00 level today to close 30c higher at 10.11. The rally came after new figures revealed that CandC's 
main offering Magners is now the second highest distributed cider brand in off-trade. The poor weather over the last 
ISEQ closes higher on buoyant Elan
few months, however, has led Goodbody Stockbrokers to reduce its earnings per share (eps) growth forecasts for 
the company. For the current year it is predicting growth of 2.2pc, down from its previous forecast for a 2.4pc 
increase. The broker has also lowered its forecast for 2008 and 2009. CandC is due to hold its AGM on July 16. 
Shares in Waterford Wedgwood were up almost 3pc to 0.04. The luxury goods manufacturer said this week that it 
has completed its E100m preference share offer. The proceeds of the sale will be used in support of marketing 
efforts related to new product launches, a further round of restructuring at the company and investment in working 
capital, the firm said.
Load-Date: July 5, 2007
End of Document
European high-speed rail tickets to compete with short-haul airline routes
European high-speed rail tickets to compete with short-haul airline routes
Associated Press Financial Wire
July 2, 2007 Monday 3:00 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 647 words
Byline: By AOIFE WHITE, AP Business Writer
Dateline: BRUSSELS Belgium
Body
London to Frankfurt by train? It's possible, it can be as fast and as easy as flying and it's far better for the 
environment, a group of European high-speed rail companies claimed Monday.
Eurostar, Germany's Deutsche Bahn AG and France's SNCF joined Dutch, Austrian, Swiss and Belgian train 
companies to form a rail alliance, Railteam, that aims to make international train bookings far easier and simpler by 
building a single online reservation system.
They want to attract at least 25 million travelers by 2010 10 million more than now taking a 5 percent chunk out of 
the short-haul airline market by promoting four-hour business trips and up to six-hour leisure journeys across 
western Europe.
They said rail travel can and will compete with low-fare airlines such as Ryanair and easyJet that have 
revolutionized European travel by encouraging people to fly more often and take weekend trips away.
"People can go anywhere on the network and get there more quickly than air. We do believe people will choose to 
make those journey because it's more environmentally friendly," said Eurostar Chief Executive Richard Brown.
"Our fares are already a lot more competitive than most travelers understand," he said. "One of the objectives of 
having the Railteam (booking) broker is to have that information on those fares easily available to all passengers so 
they can make a direct comparison on a single Web site, which isn't possible now."
Cheap fares will be available on the joint booking system, the companies said. SNCF Chief Executive Guillaume 
Pepy said at least one-tenth of French fares are offered at the lowest prices and that can be as many as 100 seats 
on double-decker trains that carry 1,000 passengers.
Lower-stress, lower carbon emission rail journeys are already attracting people away from airlines, the rail 
companies claim, after extra security checks lengthened lines at airports.
European high-speed rail tickets to compete with short-haul airline routes
Eurostar, which runs trains from London to Paris and Brussels, said it already saw a 39 percent jump in the first 
three months of this year for sales of tickets that connect its services to French high-speed services that bring 
travelers to the Mediterranean and the Alps.
It said more corporate clients have been asking them to compare the carbon footprint of train and air travel and 
have calculated that their trains, on average, release 10 times less CO2 than flying. Eurostar is also aiming to make 
its trains carbon neutral, offsetting emissions that it can't reduce.
The western European high-speed rail network already links 100 cities and 120 million people, from Paris to Berlin 
and London to Vienna, but many travelers are unaware that they can travel abroad by train and many are unable to 
find information on rail links, prices and bookings outside their own country.
Railteam aims to change that but slowly. From 2009, it plans to offer point-to-point tickets that could be bought over 
the Internet. Timetables will be sent by text message. If travelers miss a connection, their tickets will let them take 
the next available train.
Changing the ticket distribution system will cost €30 million (US$40.5 million), the companies said, but it will provide 
information and prices for all train journeys high speed and normal rail in France, Britain, Germany, Belgium, the 
Netherlands, Austria and Switzerland.
Business travelers will get many of the trappings of air travel: business lounges and eventually "trainmile" points for 
frequent travel.
By 2020, the high-speed network should stretch to Spain and Italy as mountain tunnels are completed. In 
November this year, Eurostar trains in Britain will speed up to 208 miles per hour (335 kilometers per hour) as a 
faster line is laid.
A rapid link between Belgium and the Netherlands will come onstream next year and one between Brussels and 
Cologne, Germany, will cut journey times in early 2009.
On The Net:
Railteam: http://www.railteam.eu
Load-Date: July 3, 2007
End of Document
Davy hikes Aer Lingus share price target
Davy hikes Aer Lingus share price target
Business World (Digest) 
July 2, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 213 words
Highlight: Davy has hiked its price target on Aer Lingus shares on prospects for growth and cost-cutting.
Body
Davy has hiked its price target on Aer Lingus shares on prospects for growth and cost-cutting.
In an analysis of Aer Lingus' prospects for its business plan, Davy Stockbrokers analyst, Stephen Furlong, said the 
Open Skies deal with the US presents opportunities for the national carrier.
He placed a price target of E3.40 on Aer Lingus shares over Friday's closing price of E2.66, on the basis that this 
week's update from the airline should confirm that its cost-cutting programme is on target.
 "If costs continue to fall, Aer Lingus has a decent chance to deliver on its business plan, but limited liquidity and the 
Ryanair stake/competitive strength represent an overhang of sorts," he said. Davy said the "open skies" deal 
represents a genuine growth opportunity. "Turning this into the appropriate returns and profitability depends on 
successfully competing with US competitors, the construction of a new terminal at Dublin airport and the acquisition 
of capital at an appropriate price. We are encouraged by recent market commentary regarding the level of 
discounts on the Airbus A350 programme and the airline's securing of early delivery positions . . . Our price target 
reflects the anomaly that Aer Lingus, one of the highest-return airlines, is also one of the cheapest."
Load-Date: July 4, 2007
End of Document
Monday Closing Market: Interest rate worries weigh on FTSE
Monday Closing Market: Interest rate worries weigh on FTSE
Citywire
July 2, 2007 Monday 5:35 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 668 words
Body
Interest rate worries hit real estate shares among others on Monday, weighing on the FTSE 100 benchmark index 
while helping to push the pound to a new 26-year high of $2.0160.
The FTSE 250 index bucked the trend, rising 6.7 points to 11,534.30, while the other FTSE indices were mixed.
Segro, British Land, Land Securities and Hammerson were among the biggest real estate decliners, reflecting 
growing concerns not only about interest rates but also about the commercial property market.
On the FTSE 250, Quintain Estates and Great Portland Estates were among the companies whose shares ending 
the day lower than they started.
Some key retail stocks also sank, as analysts and investors took into account the likely impact of unseasonably cold 
and rainy weather on sales of summer merchandise in recent weeks and the effects higher interest rates may have 
once the sun finally does return.
Among these falling retailers was Debenhams, down a penny or 0.77% after rising by as much as 2.9% earlier in 
the day on news that Germany's KarstadtQuelle had held talks with the company.
Retailers Next, Marks & Spencer, Home Retail Group, Carpetright, Sports Direct, HMV and JJB Sports were among 
some of the other decliners.
At the close the FTSE was down by 17.3 points at 6,590.6, having let go of a late afternoon rally that occurred after 
New York opened strongly, but above its mid-morning session low of 6,570.5.
Volume was fair with 2.66 billion shares traded in 568,808 deals.
Across the pond, US investors were buoyed by a report from the Institute for Supply Management that pointed to 
unexpected strength in the American manufacturing sector.
This pushed the Dow Jones Industrial Average up by more than 95 points to more than 13,504 as London was 
closing. The S&P 500 Index was 11.4 points firmer at 1,514.76.
Back in London, British Airways shares closed 1.37% lower at 412.75p, but Citigroup said the recent terrorist 
incidents in London and Glasgow weren't likely to have a lasting impact on the company's earnings or share prices, 
and it recommended investors buy if market nervousness did cause the shares to fall.
Monday Closing Market: Interest rate worries weigh on FTSE
The broker took a similar position with respect to EasyJet and Ryanair, on which it also has buy recommendations.
The top of the FTSE 100 gainer's board meanwhile was a Who's Who of mining stocks, led by Anglo American, up 
5.64% or 166p at £31.11 a share.
Vague rumours that Xstrata is considering a bid for Lonmin were credited with lifting the entire sector, which saw 
Lonmin ending 3.96% higher at £41.79; Rio Tinto up by 3% to £39.42; BHP Billiton gaining 2.52% to £14.25; 
Xstrata up 2.38% to £30.58; and Antofagasta up 2.28% to 628p. Kazakhmys and Vedanta also rose.
Over on the second tier, UK housebuilder and construction company Galliford Try bucked the downward trend for 
real estate shares and spent most of the day atop the gainer's board, ending at 169.50p, up 6.7% or 10.75p a 
share.
In a post-close trading statement, the Uxbridge-based company said it expected to report a pre-tax profit for the 
year to 30 June 'significantly above market expectations and substantially ahead of last year', helped by 
acquisitions and some key contract wins in its construction business.
The acquisitions helped it to sell a 'record' number of units in the year, with completions up 45% at 1,530, compared 
with the previous 12-month period.
Shares closed lower in France and Germany, with the CAC-40 ending the session down 27.98 points at 6,026.95, 
although news that Groupe Danone may be on the verge of selling its biscuits and cereals division to US giant Kraft 
Foods did create a frisson of excitement in some quarters.
FTSE SmallCap company Carter & Carter dropped 41.7% or 200p to 280p after a profit warning issued on Friday. 
Ian Hunt, a manager at the vocational training company, bought 4,000 shares in it today, exchange information 
said.
In Frankfurt, the DAX ended the day down 49.08 points at 7,958.04, weighed by Lufthansa and Allianz.
The pound dipped against the euro to 1.4791 from 1.4829.
Load-Date: July 5, 2007
End of Document
Broker Roundup: Goldman positive on Northern Rock
Broker Roundup: Goldman positive on Northern Rock
Citywire
July 2, 2007 Monday 9:11 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 355 words
Body
Goldman Sachs upgrades Northern Rock to buy from neutral, adding the stock to its Conviction Buy List.
Among other recommendations:
* Seymour Pierce has buys for Photo-Me International, Amphion, Orpak, Telit Communication and Ath Resources, 
downgrades Antofagasta to hold from buy, reiterates hold Sports Direct, reiterates outperform Findel and reiterates 
underperform Davis Service Group
* Merrill Lynch upgrades Tomkins to neutral from sell, adds St James's Place to its most preferred insurance stock 
list, removing Jardine Lloyd Thompson
* Davy reinitiates coverage of Ryanair with a 600 cents price target
* Deutsche Bank resumes coverage of AstraZeneca with a buy rating and £32 price target, reiterates buy Drax 
Group and reiterates hold BHP Billiton
* SG Securities raises oil price forecasts to $66.6 for 2007 and $59 in 2008
* Goldman Sachs upgrades Northern Rock to buy from neutral and adds the stock to its Conviction Buy list, 
reiterates buy Centrica, raising target to 415p from 409p and reiterates neutral Greene King
* HSBC initiates coverage of Lupus Capital with an overweight and 27p target and upgrades Peter Hambro Mining 
to overweight from neutral
* Citigroup upgrades Berkeley Group to hold from sell raising target to £18.20 from £16.80
* Credit Suisse initiates coverage of Thomas Cook with an underperform an 255p target, reiterates outperform 
Serco, raising target to 550p from 450p, reiterates outperform Biocare and reiterates underperform Kingspan
* Cazenove reiterates in-line for CRH
* JP Morgan reiterates overweight First Choice Holidays
* Altium Securities downgrades Umeco to hold from add, reiterates buy Arden Partners, May Gurney, Galliford Try, 
Morgan Sindall, Rok and Styles & Wood
Broker Roundup: Goldman positive on Northern Rock
* Evolution Securities reiterates add Northgate, reiterates buy Oxford Biomedica, reiterates buy Premier Research 
Group, reiterates add Wichford, reiterates add William Hill and reiterates reduce Tomkins
* KBC Peel Hunt reiterates buy Findel, reiterates buy Morgan Sindall and reiterates buy Salamander Energy
* UBS upgrades Investec to buy from neutral, reiterates buy Anglo American and reiterates buy Renewable Energy.
Load-Date: July 5, 2007
End of Document
EC vetoes Ryanair takeover of Aer Lingus
EC vetoes Ryanair takeover of Aer Lingus  
AirFinance Journal
July 2007 
Copyright 2007 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LEGAL NEWS
Length: 237 words
Body
The European Commission (EC) has effectively vetoed Ryanair Holdings' $2 billion bid for Aer Lingus because of 
competition concerns. The decision represents the first time the EC has vetoed any merger or acquisition since the 
2004 decision to stop a proposed EDP-Energias de Portugal bid for Gas de Portugal. 
The EC decision cited concerns that the acquisition would have eliminated Ryanair's primary competitor and 
created a monopoly, allowing it to dominate 35 routes. Moreover, Ryanair's offer to sell certain slots was deemed 
inadequate to alleviate competition concerns. 
Ryanair has announced that it will appeal the ruling to the European Court of First Instance. The carrier called the 
decision "nakedly political". The Irish government, which has opposed the Ryanair takeover, is, with 25.3%, the 
largest shareholder in Aer Lingus.  
Ryanair announced its hostile bid for Aer Lingus last October, and acquired a 25.2% shareholding by the end of 
November. The EC began its probe in December into initial concerns that the deal would restrict competition on 
Dublin-London flights. 
Under EU merger rules, the EC cannot force Ryanair to sell its stake in Aer Lingus because it is not a controlling 
interest. Aer Lingus could, however, ask competition authorities in Ireland, the UK or Germany to force Ryanair to 
divest; it could also file a complaint to the EC under EU rules that prohibit restrictive business practices.  
Load-Date: October 3, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair may reopen ClermontFerrand route
Ryanair may reopen ClermontFerrand route
Business World (Digest) 
June 28, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 241 words
Highlight: Ryanair aims to reopen a route between Clermont Ferrand and London
Body
No-frills airline Ryanair aims to reopen a route between the town of Clermont Ferrand in France and London, said 
Rene Souchon, president of the Auvergne regional council.
'Negotiations are going on with a view to Ryanair being able to reopen a thrice-weekly flight between Clermont and 
London from April 1 2008', Souchon said.
'We have a draft agreement, but there are still many things to negotiate', Souchon said, adding Ryanair did not give 
a timetable as it wanted to 'test the number of potential customers'. The route would operate between April and 
October.
 Ryanair had a daily route between Clermont Ferrand and London Stansted between May 2003 and Jan 2004, 
which was used by 45,000 passengers. The route was opened as Ryanair received construction and commercial 
aid to do so when former French president Valery Giscard d'Estaing was president of the regional council. 'At the 
time, the aid was not supervised as it is today. I am not going to give a blank cheque to Ryanair,' Souchon said. He 
said the reopening of the route would increase passenger traffic at the Auvergne airport, which had dropped to 
552,000 in 2006 from 1.1 million passengers in 2002 and would attract British tourists to the region. Ryanair, which 
left Saint-Etienne in June 2006 for Grenoble, is present in Limoges and Rodez. 'There is a big gap between 
Limoges-Rodez and Grenoble; that gives it a not-inconsiderable potential,' said the Auvergne council president. 
Load-Date: July 2, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ in black as Paddy Power soars 5pc
ISEQ in black as Paddy Power soars 5pc
Business World (Digest) 
June 28, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 507 words
Highlight: Shares in Paddy Power soared by more than 5pc today.
Body
Shares in Paddy Power soared by more than 5pc today after the EU this week warned several European countries 
to open up their betting markets.
The warning makes it more likely that Paddy Power and other leading bookmakers will be able to expand their 
operations throughout Europe.
Brussels this week told the Governments of countries such as Sweden and France that they must allow free and 
fair competition in the betting and gaming sector.
 Paddy Power has signalled in recent days that it is keen to increase its presence in Europe, with the launch of a 
new Spanish language website. The company already has a German language sportsbook and has indicated in the 
past that Italy, Poland and Portugal are other destinations under consideration. Shares in Paddy Power ended the 
session 116c higher at 22.76 last night. Those sharp gains helped lift the overall ISEQ index up 58.41 points to 
9,295.21. Gains were capped, however, by a lacklustre opening on Wall Street as U.S. investors held back ahead 
of the Federal Reserve's interest rate decision later tonight. With the central bank all but certain to keep rates on 
hold, investors remained on guard for whatever comments policymakers had to make about the U.S. economy. 
Back in Dublin, financial shares staged a modest recovery following their sharp falls earlier in the week. Anglo Irish 
Bank closed 24c higher at 15.12m while AIB jumped 20c to 20.50 and Irish Life and Permanent tacked on 5c to 
18.39. Bank of Ireland bucked the positive trend, falling 27c to 14.77. Meanwhile, shares in the construction sector 
put in a mixed performance, with CRH up 23c to 36.50, McInerney down 1c to 2.41 and Grafton down 13c to 10.49. 
Kingspan ended the day 12c higher at 20.47 ahead of the release of its pre-close trading statement tomorrow. 
Earlier this week, Goodbody analyst, Peter Gunn, said he was maintaining his "Buy" rating on Kingspan following 
comments from new Irish Minister for Energy, Eamon Ryan, that builders could receive a grant aid if their projects 
have 40pc higher energy efficiency than the currently prevalent building standards. "This announcement appears 
favourable for Kingspan and would benefit its Irish timber frame and insulated boards businesses," Gunn said. 
ISEQ in black as Paddy Power soars 5pc
Kingspan's exposure to the Ireland's new housing market is estimated at 10pc of sales. Other notable movers 
included United Drug, up 10c to 4.05, Irish Continental Group, up 20c to 22.80, IAWS, up 21c to 16.01, and C and 
C, up 31c to 10.39. Meanwhile, Aer Lingus tacked on 10c to 2.65 after the EU this week confirmed its decision to 
block Ryanair's hostile takeover bid. Shares in Ryanair were down 1c to 4.96. Waterford Wedgwood put in a decent 
performance, up 5pc to 0.04c, after the luxury goods company said on Wednesday that losses had fallen by 63pc in 
the year to the end of March. Losses before tax for the year came in at E70.8m compared to E189.4m the previous 
year. Chief executive Peter Cameron said that while more progress was needed, the company was 'satisfied and 
encouraged' by the improvement.
Load-Date: July 2, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair takeover bid is blocked
Ryanair takeover bid is blocked
Financial Times (London, England)
June 28, 2007 Thursday
Asia Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 15
Length: 337 words
Byline: By TOBIAS BUCK
Dateline: BRUSSELS 
Body
The European Union's top antitrust regulator yesterday blocked Ryanair's audacious Euros 1.48bn (Dollars 2bn) bid 
to take over domestic rival Aer Lingus, but ruled out any move that would force the low-cost airline to divest its 25 
per cent stake in the Irish flag carrier.
Neelie Kroes, the European Union competition commissioner, said a combination of the two carriers would have led 
to a near-monopoly in the Irish market and would have harmed passengers.
"Monopolies are bad for consumers because they reduce choice, lower quality and give rise to higher prices. Low-
cost carriers like Ryanair are no exception to this rule," she said.
The prohibition - the first by Ms Kroes since 2004 and the first ever of an airline merger - had been widely expected. 
Until yesterday, however, there was uncertainty whether Brussels would make use of its powers to force a 
divestment ofRyanair's holding in Aer Lingus.
But Ms Kroes said: "Since Ryanair is not in a position to exert de-jure (legal) or de-facto (in practice) control (over 
Aer Lingus), the Commission is not in a position to require Ryanair to divest its minority shareholding, which is, by 
the way, not a controlling stake."
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair chief executive, warned this week that a formal demand to put such a big block of Aer 
Lingus shares on the market would have destabilised the carrier and hurt small shareholders.
Mr O'Leary - who vowed to appeal against the prohibition - also attacked the ruling as "politically motivated" and 
unfair in light of Brussels' support for earlier airline mergers.
However, the Commission said yesterday that a merged group would have accounted for more than 80 per cent of 
all European flights into and out of Dublin airport.
Ryanair takeover bid is blocked
It would also have had a monopoly or dominant position on 35 routes used by more than 14m European 
passengers every year.
This meant a deal would have affected substantially more passengers directly than earlier mergers such Air 
France/KLM and Lufthansa/Swiss, both of which were approved by Brussels.
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
Brussels blocks Ryanair merger
Brussels blocks Ryanair merger
Financial Times (London, England)
June 28, 2007 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES UK; Pg. 20
Length: 377 words
Byline: By TOBIAS BUCK
Dateline: BRUSSELS 
Body
The European Union's top antitrust regulator yesterday blocked Ryanair's Euros 1.48bn (Pounds 1bn) bid to take 
over domestic rival Aer Lingus, but ruled out any movethat would force the low-cost airline to divest its25 per cent 
stake in the Irish flag carrier.
Neelie Kroes, the EU competition commissioner, said a combination of the two carriers would have led to a near-
monopoly in the Irish market and would have harmed passengers.
"Monopolies are bad for consumers because they reduce choice, lower quality and give rise to higher prices. Low-
cost carriers like Ryanair are no exception to this rule," she said.
The prohibition - the first by Ms Kroes since 2004 and the first of an airline merger - had been widely expected. Until 
yesterday, however, there was uncertainty over whether Brussels would make use of its powers to force a 
divestment of Ryan-air's holding in Aer Lingus.
But Ms Kroes said: "Since Ryanair is not in a position to exert de jure or de facto control (over Aer Lingus), the 
Commission is notin a position to requireRyanair to divest its minority shareholding - which is, by the way, not a 
controlling stake."
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair chief executive, warned this week that a formal demand to put such a big block of Aer 
Lingus shares on the market would have destabilised the carrier and hurt small shareholders.
Mr O'Leary, who vowed to appeal against the prohibition, attacked the ruling as "politically motivated" and unfair in 
the light of Brussels' support for earlier airline mergers.
But the Commission pointed out that a merged group would have accounted for more than 80 per cent of European 
flights into and out of Dublin. It would also have had a monopoly or dominant position on 35 routes used by more 
than 14m European passengers a year.
Brussels blocks Ryanair merger
This meant a deal would have affected far more passengers directly than mergers such Air France/KLM and 
Lufthansa/Swiss, both of which Brussels approved.
Rebutting Ryanair's arguments, Ms Kroes also provided a riposte to Mr O'Leary's complaint that even desperate 
measures would not improve the carrier's standing in Brussels. She said: "(Mr O'Leary) took the conclusion - I am 
not sure why - that even ifhe was standing on hishead in the nude I wouldnot be impressed. I think he was right."
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
Thursday Papers: tips and comment
Thursday Papers: tips and comment
Citywire
June 28, 2007 Thursday 6:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 618 words
Body
Comment on Aviva, Big Oil, Vodafone, Serco, Stagecoach, SMG, Northern Rock, Inchcape, Hikma and RAB 
Capital, plus tips for Just Car Clinics and WS Atkins.
FTLex Column: * The bull market seems to be fraying at the edges - higher real rates are a digestible event, but 
only if these fundamental trends hold * Aviva's new man - that there now appears to be nothing anywhere near as 
exciting as Aviva's horizon may, unjustifiably, continue to weigh on the stock * ProSieben buys SBS - it is an 
ambitious plan, overseen by industry veteran Lord Hollick, now at KKR. The combination of private equity financing 
and industry nous should help ProSieben pull it off * Big Oil under pressure - but even in 'market friendly' regimes 
such as the US, Big Oil makes for a juicy target * LBO financing - skimpy interest cover looks a lot more scary if the 
payments cannot be postponed., This could be the beginning of a serious bondholder revolt. That would be a 
fireworks show worth watching.
Lombard (p.18): * Northern Rock's model no longer looks as solid - CBI Distributive Trades survey: when it rains....
Other comment: * Tesco aims to fill grocery gap (p.9) - Worries grow about the true value of repackaged debt (p.11) 
- Rumours of stakebuilding boost Vodafone (p.40) - Rumours of a £12.75p-a-share approach lifts Smiths Group 
(p.40) - Management buyout rumours support Helical Bar (p.40) - Stakebuilding rumours sustain Quintain Estate 
(p.40) - Talk that Sanctuary Group has received further approaches (p.40)
THE TIMESTempus: * Serco should be tucked away - Hold Stagecoach - Avoid SMG for now
Business Editor: * Council of awe for new prime minister - Jitters on Northern Rock look overdone - Rich pickings 
for the super rich
Other comment: * Rail fares to rise by 30% above inflation - Sports Direct still searching for a new chairman - Talk 
of significant reserves update from West Africa Diamonds - Energy Asset Management a smaller stock to watch - 
Software Radio Technology agrees deal to equip China's army with radios - Investors check out grocers - 
Investment fund takes a gamble on Leisure & Gaming
DAILY TELEGRAPHQuestor: * Buy Northern Rock - Hold Stagecoach - Hold SMG
Comment: * Gordon Brown steps up but it's the new chancellor I feel sorry for - Gordon's talking shop's open for 
business - Foreign capital must not just go to the capital
Thursday Papers: tips and comment
Other comment; * Clothing feels a chill from bad weather and rising rates
THE INDEPENDENT Investment Column: * Hold Inchape - Buy Hikma Pharma - Buy RAB Capital
Outlook: *Credit markets begun to show the cracks - Northern Rock's profits warning - Ryanair: O'Leary flies off the 
handle, again
Other comment: * Traders seek safety in pharmaceutical stocks
THE GUARDIANViewpoint: * It's new Labour, big business - FSA and banking basics - Retail sales/interest rates: a 
step too far
Other comment: * Next out of fashion amid poor sales fears
DAILY MAIL* PartyGaming keeps on falling - Interview Adam Applegarth, chief executive Northern Rock
DAILY EXPRESS * Weather puts damper on Marks & Spencer shares - Talk of stakebuilding at Quintain Estate - 
Rumours of a large chunk of stock changing hands at Vodafone
SHARES MAGAZINEPlays of the Week: * Buy Just Car Clinics at 91p - WS Atkins at £11.10Update: * Buy 
Interactive World
25 Bargain Stocks: * AT Communications - Artisan - Atrium Underwriting - Aviva - Cello Group - Colliers CRE - 
Delta - Holders Technology - Imprint - Intelek - Judges Capital - Norman Hay - Pilat Technology - Pochin's - Prime 
People - Royal Dutch Shell - SciSys - Tanjong - Tex Holdings - Top Ten Holdings - Ultimate Finance - VI Group - 
Vista - WH Ireland - Zenith Hygiene
Trading Plays: * Sell Marks & Spencer, Northern Rock and Marston's * Buy Informa
Load-Date: July 3, 2007
End of Document
RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC
RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC
WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS
June 28, 2007 Thursday
Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
All Rights Reserved
Information Bank Abstracts
Section: Section A; Column 6; Pg. 8
Length: 41 words
Body
European Union regulators have blocked Ryanair Holdings from buying its Irish Peer Aer Lingus Group on grounds 
that it would create quasi-monopoly in Irish market; Ryanair will appeal what it calls unlawful decision; Aer Lingus 
welcomes decision (S)
Load-Date: June 29, 2007
End of Document
EU blocks Ryanair bid for Aer Lingus on monopoly concerns
EU blocks Ryanair bid for Aer Lingus on monopoly concerns
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 6:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 617 words
Byline: By AOIFE WHITE, AP Business Writer
Dateline: BRUSSELS Belgium
Body
EU regulators blocked a hostile takeover bid by low-fare carrier Ryanair for Ireland's Aer Lingus on Wednesday, 
saying it would limit consumer choice and likely boost ticket prices.
Together, the two Irish airlines would control more than 80 percent of all European flights to and from Dublin airport, 
the European Commission said.
"What we are doing is preventing a monopoly from emerging," EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes said. 
"Ireland, being an island, depends heavily on air transport."
It is only the second time the EU has blocked a takeover bid since 2001.
The 1.48 billion euros ($1.9 billion) takeover already appeared doomed after nearly half of Aer Lingus Group PLC 
shareholders vowed to block it.
Ryanair believes the EU decision is politically motivated and aimed to please the Irish government. The government 
and Ryanair each control about a quarter of Aer Lingus.
Ryanair vowed to take regulators to court, citing earlier EU decisions to allow the combination of Air France and 
KLM and of Lufthansa and Swissair.
Regulators, however, say the Ryanair bid was unprecedented because both airlines have such a large share of 
routes at one airport, Dublin. In previous takeovers, the airlines' main hubs were in different cities.
Aer Lingus and Ryanair compete directly on 35 routes to and from Ireland, regulators said, and the combination 
would give the combined carrier a monopoly on 22.
"This would have reduced choice and, most likely, led to higher prices for more than 14 million EU passengers 
using these routes to and from Ireland each year," the European Commission said.
Changes offered by Ryanair to soothe EU concerns were inadequate, it said.
EU blocks Ryanair bid for Aer Lingus on monopoly concerns
Regulators said the limited number of airport landing slots the airline offered to give away to new rivals would not 
replace the competitive pressure in the market that would disappear if Ryanair swallowed Aer Lingus.
"What is certain is that Ryanair proposed to end the intense competition between Ryanair and Aer Lingus at Dublin 
airport that has pushed prices down and brought Irish consumers an increasing choice of direct flight connections 
from Dublin," it said.
"It is highly unlikely that Irish consumers would be better off with a near monopoly, even if it were sweetened by a 
temporary, hard-to-monitor price rebate."
Aer Lingus chairman John Sharman said the EU decision was good news for the company and travelers.
"The creation of one dominant player out of Ireland despite the protestations of Ryanair just cannot be in the 
interests of consumers," he said.
But Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said Aer Lingus and its passengers were the real losers as the 
company's share price sinks far below the 2.80 euros ($3.77) a share that Ryanair had offered. He had also 
promised 100 million euros ($134.6 million) in savings for Aer Lingus customers through reduced fares and 
scrapped fuel surcharges.
Aer Lingus shares fell to 2.55 euros ($3.43) Wednesday.
"This prohibition leaves Aer Lingus exposed as a small, peripheral loss-making regional airline which cannot 
compete with Ryanair on price or punctuality from Dublin at a time when the rest of the European industry is 
consolidating," the company said.
O'Leary acknowledged his bid, suspended since December, was now "officially dead," and that Ryanair was legally 
barred from making a new bid until a court rules on an appeal. That could take 18 to 24 months to be heard.
Growing rapidly from its Irish base into Europe's largest low-cost carrier, Ryanair has revolutionized travel in 
Europe, spearheading no-frills cheap flights that forced Aer Lingus a former state-owned airline to do the same.
Associated Press Writer Shawn Pogatchnik in Dublin contributed to this report.
Load-Date: June 28, 2007
End of Document
EU blocks Ryanair bid for Aer Lingus , saying it would reduce consumer choice
EU blocks Ryanair bid for Aer Lingus, saying it would reduce consumer 
choice
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 5:09 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 730 words
Byline: By AOIFE WHITE, AP Business Writer
Dateline: BRUSSELS Belgium
Body
EU regulators blocked low-fare airline Ryanair Holdings PLC's hostile bid for Aer Lingus Group PLC on 
Wednesday, saying the deal would limit consumer choice and likely lead to higher prices.
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said the EU veto meant his bid, suspended since December, was now 
"officially dead." He has said he would appeal.
The European Commission refused to clear the deal because the two Irish airlines would control more than 80 
percent of all European flights to and from Dublin.
New airlines were unlikely to try to muscle in because of Ryanair's reputation for "aggressive retaliation" and its 
ability to temporarily slash fares and launch new routes to protect its powerful market position, the EU said.
"What we are doing is preventing a monopoly from emerging," EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes said. 
"Ireland, being an island, depends heavily on air transport."
This is only the second time since 2001 that the EU has blocked a deal.
The €1.48 billion (US$1.9 billion) takeover already seemed doomed after nearly half of Aer Lingus shareholders 
vowed to block it and Ryanair's share offer found few takers.
But Ryanair vowed to take regulators to court, claiming they were wrong to block the deal when they had cleared 
others between Air France and KLM and between Lufthansa and Swissair.
O'Leary said Ryanair could not make any new bid now until the European Court of First Instance rules on his 
appeal which could take 18 to 24 months.
Ryanair's only options were to sell its 25.2 percent stake in Aer Lingus something O'Leary said would crash its 
share price or hold on "and nurse our losses," he said.
EU blocks Ryanair bid for Aer Lingus , saying it would reduce consumer choice
Ryanair has complained that the EU decision was politically motivated and aimed at pleasing the Irish government, 
which owns a quarter of Aer Lingus.
Kroes said the decision was legally sound and would stand up in the EU courts.
Her officials said Ryanair's proposed deal was unprecedented because both airlines had such a large share of 
routes at one airport, Dublin, while other airlines like Air France and KLM had their main hubs in different cities.
Aer Lingus and Ryanair compete directly on 35 routes to and from Ireland, the EU said, and the combination would 
give them a monopoly on 22.
"This would have reduced choice and, most likely, led to higher prices for more than 14 million EU passengers 
using these routes to and from Ireland each year," the European Commission said.
Ryanair's offer to make changes to soothe these concerns were inadequate, it said, criticizing the limited number of 
airport landing slots the airline offered to give away to new rivals. This would not replace the competitive pressure in 
the market that would disappear if Ryanair swallowed Aer Lingus, it said.
A plan by Ryanair to reduce Aer Lingus short-haul fares by 10 percent in the first year was "almost impossible to 
monitor" and gave no assurances that prices wouldn't rise afterward or that Ryanair would not raise its own prices 
in the meantime, the EU said.
"What is certain is that Ryanair proposed to end the intense competition between Ryanair and Aer Lingus at Dublin 
airport that has pushed prices down and brought Irish consumers an increasing choice of direct flight connections 
from Dublin," it said.
"It is highly unlikely that Irish consumers would be better off with a near monopoly, even if it were sweetened by a 
temporary, hard-to-monitor price rebate."
Aer Lingus Chairman John Sharman said the decision was good news for the company and its customers: "The 
creation of one dominant player out of Ireland despite the protestations of Ryanair just cannot be in the interests of 
consumers," he said.
But Aer Lingus shares fell to €2.55 (US$3.43) well below Ryanair's bid price of €2.80 (US$3.76). Ryanair's massive 
purchases of Aer Lingus shares and its surprise offer drove Aer Lingus over €3 (US$4.03) at one point as investors 
wrongly gambled that O'Leary would raise his bid.
O'Leary warned Wednesday that Aer Lingus shares would plummet to €1.50 (US$2.02) if Ryanair opted to dump its 
holding. Ryanair was €0.04 (US$0.05) lower Wednesday at €4.96 (US$6.67).
Growing rapidly from its Irish base into Europe's largest low-cost carrier, Ryanair has spearheaded the drive toward 
no-frills cheap flights that forced Aer Lingus a former state-owned airline to do the same.
Associated Press Writer Shawn Pogatchnik in Dublin contributed to this report.
Load-Date: June 28, 2007
End of Document
EU blocks Ryanair bid for Aer Lingus , saying it would reduce consumer choice
EU blocks Ryanair bid for Aer Lingus, saying it would reduce consumer 
choice
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 10:39 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 621 words
Byline: By AOIFE WHITE, AP Business Writer
Dateline: BRUSSELS Belgium
Body
EU regulators on Wednesday blocked low-fare airline Ryanair Holdings PLC's hostile bid for Ireland's Aer Lingus 
Group PLC, saying the deal would cut consumer choice and likely lead to higher prices.
Together, the two airlines would control more than 80 percent of all European flights to and from Dublin airport, the 
European Commission said.
New airlines were unlikely to try to muscle in because of Ryanair's reputation for "aggressive retaliation" and ability 
to temporarily slash fares and launch new routes to protect a powerful market position, it claimed.
"Our decision to prohibit this merger was essential to safeguard Irish consumers who depend heavily on air 
transport," said EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes.
"Any monopoly  even if advertised as low-cost and low-fare is bad for consumers. The reality is that prices are 
higher and quality is lower when there is no competition," she said.
This is only the second time the EU has blocked a deal since 2001.
The €1.48 billion (US$1.9 billion) takeover already seemed doomed after nearly half of Aer Lingus shareholders 
vowed to block it and Ryanair's share offer found few takers.
But Ryanair complained Tuesday that the EU decision was politically motivated and aimed to please the Irish 
government. Both the government and Ryanair each control about a quarter of Aer Lingus.
Ryanair vowed to take regulators to court, claiming they were wrong to block this takeover when they had cleared 
others between Air France and KLM and between Lufthansa and Swissair.
Kroes said the decision was legally sound and would stand up in the EU courts.
EU blocks Ryanair bid for Aer Lingus , saying it would reduce consumer choice
Her officials said the Ryanair deal was unprecedented because both airlines had such a large share of routes at 
one airport, Dublin, while those other airlines had their main hubs in different cities.
Aer Lingus and Ryanair compete directly on 35 routes to and from Ireland, it said, and the combination would give 
them a monopoly on 22. The country has few alternative passenger ferry links to Britain and continental Europe.
"This would have reduced choice and, most likely, led to higher prices for more than 14 million EU passengers 
using these routes to and from Ireland each year," the European Commission said.
Ryanair's offer to make changes to soothe these concerns were inadequate, it said, criticizing the limited number of 
airport landing slots the airline offered to give away to new rivals. This would not replace the competitive pressure in 
the market that would disappear if Ryanair swallowed Aer Lingus, it said.
A plan by Ryanair to reduce Aer Lingus short-haul fares by 10 percent in the first year was "almost impossible to 
monitor" and gave no assurances that prices wouldn't rise afterward or that Ryanair would not raise its own prices 
in the meantime.
"What is certain is that Ryanair proposed to end the intense competition between Ryanair and Aer Lingus at Dublin 
airport that has pushed prices down and brought Irish consumers an increasing choice of direct flight connections 
from Dublin," it said.
"It is highly unlikely that Irish consumers would be better off with a near monopoly, even if it were sweetened by a 
temporary, hard-to-monitor price rebate."
Aer Lingus chairman John Sharman said the EU decision was good news for the company and its customers: "The 
creation of one dominant player out of Ireland despite the protestations of Ryanair just cannot be in the interests of 
consumers," he said.
Growing rapidly from its Irish base into Europe's largest low-cost carrier, Ryanair has revolutionized travel in 
Europe, spearheading no-frills cheap flights that forced Aer Lingus a former state-owned airline to do the same.
Associated Press Writer Shawn Pogatchnik in Dublin contributed to this report.
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
AP Financial NewsBrief at 7:20 a.m. EDT Wednesday, June 27, 2007
AP Financial NewsBrief at 7:20 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 11:20 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: DOMESTIC NEWS
Length: 760 words
Body
Fed Not Expected to Change Key Rate
WASHINGTON (AP) Keeping inflation under control as the economy emerges from a yearlong sluggish spell is 
certain to be a matter of lively debate for Federal Reserve policymakers. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his 
central bank colleagues open a two-day meeting Wednesday, where the economy's current and future performance 
will be assessed. The strength of the anticipated economic rebound, the depth of the housing slump, problems with 
risky mortgages, the state of the employment climate, and the direction of gasoline and other energy prices will 
figure prominently into those discussions.
U.S. Stocks Tilt Toward Higher Open
NEW YORK (AP) U.S. stocks tilted toward a slightly higher open Wednesday as investors begin to position 
themselves before the Federal Reserve's two-day meeting on interest rates. Investors wary of turbulence in the 
past few weeks due to soaring bond yields will be looking for any clues of central bankers' views on the economy. 
The Fed is widely expected to keep the benchmark rate steady at 5.25 percent when its decision is announced on 
Thursday.
Immigration Amendment Aimed at Day Labor
WASHINGTON (AP) Home Depot is tired of being forced by local governments to accommodate the day laborers 
who turn up in its store parking lots seeking construction work. So the Georgia-based company turned to Congress 
for help. The Senate could respond this week by attaching language to the immigration bill that would prohibit city 
councils from requiring home improvement stores to pay for shelters or other services to help maintain orderly day 
labor sites.
EU Blocks Ryanair Bid for Aer Lingus
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) EU regulators blocked a hostile bid by low-fare carrier Ryanair for Ireland's Aer Lingus 
on Wednesday, saying the deal would limit consumer choice and likely boost ticket prices. Together, the two 
airlines would control more than 80 percent of all European flights to and from Dublin airport, the European 
Commission said.
AP Financial NewsBrief at 7:20 a.m. EDT Wednesday, June 27, 2007
Oracle's Acquisitions Paying Off
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) The $25 billion bill that Oracle Corp. has run up buying smaller business software makers 
looks like money well spent so far. In the latest validation of a spending spree that began 2 1/2 years ago, Oracle's 
fiscal fourth-quarter profit climbed 23 percent to $1.6 billion, or 31 cents per share.
Oil Prices Fall in European Trading
VIENNA, Austria (AP) Oil prices fell Wednesday as traders awaited the release of a U.S. government inventory 
report expected to show increases in supplies of crude, gasoline and distillates. Still, comments from OPEC that the 
group did not plan to increase production in the coming months despite consistently high prices kept a relatively 
solid floor under markets.
Nike's 4Q Results Allay Fears
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) Nike Inc.'s products are focused on helping athletes set records, but the company set a few 
of its with fiscal fourth-quarter and year-end results that were well-received by analysts and investors. With growth 
in the U.S. and abroad, plus surprisingly strong future orders, Nike allayed fears and buoyed hopes for some about 
the future of the world's largest athletic shoe and clothing maker.
Nissan Developing Smaller Car Batteries
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn said Wednesday his company is working hard to develop the 
next generation of smaller, lighter auto batteries a technology that holds promise not just for hybrids but also for 
electric cars. Automakers are racing to develop viable lithium ion batteries, which are common in gadgets such as 
laptops and cell phones but have yet to be fully adapted to the more rigorous demands of a car engine.
China Shuts 180 Food Factories
BEIJING (AP) China has closed 180 food factories after inspectors found industrial chemicals being used in 
products from candy to seafood, state media said Wednesday. The closures came amid a nationwide crackdown on 
shoddy and dangerous products launched in December that also uncovered use of recycled or expired food, the 
China Daily said.
Dow, Murdoch in Agreement on Safeguards
NEW YORK (AP) Dow Jones & Co. and News Corp. agreed broadly on measures to protect the editorial 
independence of The Wall Street Journal under ownership by Rupert Murdoch's media conglomerate, clearing 
away a major hurdle in the way of a deal, a person familiar with the matter said Tuesday. Details of the agreement 
remained unclear, and any deal must still be approved by the full membership of Dow Jones' controlling 
shareholders, the Bancroft family, who initially rejected Murdoch's approach.
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
AP Financial NewsBrief at 7:06 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
AP Financial NewsBrief at 7:06 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 11:06 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: DOMESTIC NEWS
Length: 772 words
Body
Fed Not Expected to Change Key Rate
WASHINGTON (AP) Keeping inflation under control as the economy emerges from a yearlong sluggish spell is 
certain to be a matter of lively debate for Federal Reserve policymakers. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his 
central bank colleagues open a two-day meeting Wednesday, where the economy's current and future performance 
will be assessed. The strength of the anticipated economic rebound, the depth of the housing slump, problems with 
risky mortgages, the state of the employment climate, and the direction of gasoline and other energy prices will 
figure prominently into those discussions.
Immigration Amendment Aimed at Day Labor
WASHINGTON (AP) Home Depot is tired of being forced by local governments to accommodate the day laborers 
who turn up in its store parking lots seeking construction work. So the Georgia-based company turned to Congress 
for help. The Senate could respond this week by attaching language to the immigration bill that would prohibit city 
councils from requiring home improvement stores to pay for shelters or other services to help maintain orderly day 
labor sites.
EU Blocks Ryanair Bid for Aer Lingus
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) EU regulators blocked a hostile bid by low-fare carrier Ryanair for Ireland's Aer Lingus 
on Wednesday, saying the deal would limit consumer choice and likely boost ticket prices. Together, the two 
airlines would control more than 80 percent of all European flights to and from Dublin airport, the European 
Commission said.
Oracle's Acquisitions Paying Off
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) The $25 billion bill that Oracle Corp. has run up buying smaller business software makers 
looks like money well spent so far. In the latest validation of a spending spree that began 2 1/2 years ago, Oracle's 
fiscal fourth-quarter profit climbed 23 percent to $1.6 billion, or 31 cents per share.
Nike's 4Q Results Allay Fears
AP Financial NewsBrief at 7:06 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) Nike Inc.'s products are focused on helping athletes set records, but the company set a few 
of its with fiscal fourth-quarter and year-end results that were well-received by analysts and investors. With growth 
in the U.S. and abroad, plus surprisingly strong future orders, Nike allayed fears and buoyed hopes for some about 
the future of the world's largest athletic shoe and clothing maker.
Nissan Developing Smaller Car Batteries
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn said Wednesday his company is working hard to develop the 
next generation of smaller, lighter auto batteries a technology that holds promise not just for hybrids but also for 
electric cars. Automakers are racing to develop viable lithium ion batteries, which are common in gadgets such as 
laptops and cell phones but have yet to be fully adapted to the more rigorous demands of a car engine.
China Shuts 180 Food Factories
BEIJING (AP) China has closed 180 food factories after inspectors found industrial chemicals being used in 
products from candy to seafood, state media said Wednesday. The closures came amid a nationwide crackdown on 
shoddy and dangerous products launched in December that also uncovered use of recycled or expired food, the 
China Daily said.
Stocks Edge Lower As Investors Await Fed
NEW YORK (AP) Wall Street finished an extremely erratic session with a modest decline Tuesday as investors 
parsed unimpressive data on home sales and consumer confidence and awaited the Federal Reserve's meeting on 
interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average initially slipped, soared nearly 100 points, and ultimately pulled 
back again much as it did Monday, when the blue chip index rose by triple digits only to give up the gains and finish 
lower.
Oil Prices Steady Below $68 a Barrel
SINGAPORE (AP) Oil prices were steady in Asia Wednesday as traders awaited the release of a U.S. government 
inventory report expected to show increases in supplies of crude, gasoline and distillates. Light, sweet crude for 
August delivery rose a penny to $67.78 a barrel in Asian electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, 
mid-afternoon in Singapore. The contract fell $1.41 to settle at $67.77 a barrel Tuesday.
Dow, Murdoch in Agreement on Safeguards
NEW YORK (AP) Dow Jones & Co. and News Corp. agreed broadly on measures to protect the editorial 
independence of The Wall Street Journal under ownership by Rupert Murdoch's media conglomerate, clearing 
away a major hurdle in the way of a deal, a person familiar with the matter said Tuesday. Details of the agreement 
remained unclear, and any deal must still be approved by the full membership of Dow Jones' controlling 
shareholders, the Bancroft family, who initially rejected Murdoch's approach.
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
AP Financial NewsBrief at 6:59 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
AP Financial NewsBrief at 6:59 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 11:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: DOMESTIC NEWS
Length: 772 words
Body
Fed Not Expected to Change Key Rate
WASHINGTON (AP) Keeping inflation under control as the economy emerges from a yearlong sluggish spell is 
certain to be a matter of lively debate for Federal Reserve policymakers. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his 
central bank colleagues open a two-day meeting Wednesday, where the economy's current and future performance 
will be assessed. The strength of the anticipated economic rebound, the depth of the housing slump, problems with 
risky mortgages, the state of the employment climate, and the direction of gasoline and other energy prices will 
figure prominently into those discussions.
Immigration Amendment Aimed at Day Labor
WASHINGTON (AP) Home Depot is tired of being forced by local governments to accommodate the day laborers 
who turn up in its store parking lots seeking construction work. So the Georgia-based company turned to Congress 
for help. The Senate could respond this week by attaching language to the immigration bill that would prohibit city 
councils from requiring home improvement stores to pay for shelters or other services to help maintain orderly day 
labor sites.
EU Blocks Ryanair Bid for Aer Lingus
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) EU regulators blocked a hostile bid by low-fare carrier Ryanair for Ireland's Aer Lingus 
on Wednesday, saying the deal would limit consumer choice and likely boost ticket prices. Together, the two 
airlines would control more than 80 percent of all European flights to and from Dublin airport, the European 
Commission said.
Oracle's Acquisitions Paying Off
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) The $25 billion bill that Oracle Corp. has run up buying smaller business software makers 
looks like money well spent so far. In the latest validation of a spending spree that began 2 1/2 years ago, Oracle's 
fiscal fourth-quarter profit climbed 23 percent to $1.6 billion, or 31 cents per share.
Nike's 4Q Results Allay Fears
AP Financial NewsBrief at 6:59 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) Nike Inc.'s products are focused on helping athletes set records, but the company set a few 
of its with fiscal fourth-quarter and year-end results that were well-received by analysts and investors. With growth 
in the U.S. and abroad, plus surprisingly strong future orders, Nike allayed fears and buoyed hopes for some about 
the future of the world's largest athletic shoe and clothing maker.
Nissan Developing Smaller Car Batteries
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn said Wednesday his company is working hard to develop the 
next generation of smaller, lighter auto batteries a technology that holds promise not just for hybrids but also for 
electric cars. Automakers are racing to develop viable lithium ion batteries, which are common in gadgets such as 
laptops and cell phones but have yet to be fully adapted to the more rigorous demands of a car engine.
China Shuts 180 Food Factories
BEIJING (AP) China has closed 180 food factories after inspectors found industrial chemicals being used in 
products from candy to seafood, state media said Wednesday. The closures came amid a nationwide crackdown on 
shoddy and dangerous products launched in December that also uncovered use of recycled or expired food, the 
China Daily said.
Stocks Edge Lower As Investors Await Fed
NEW YORK (AP) Wall Street finished an extremely erratic session with a modest decline Tuesday as investors 
parsed unimpressive data on home sales and consumer confidence and awaited the Federal Reserve's meeting on 
interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average initially slipped, soared nearly 100 points, and ultimately pulled 
back again much as it did Monday, when the blue chip index rose by triple digits only to give up the gains and finish 
lower.
Oil Prices Steady Below $68 a Barrel
SINGAPORE (AP) Oil prices were steady in Asia Wednesday as traders awaited the release of a U.S. government 
inventory report expected to show increases in supplies of crude, gasoline and distillates. Light, sweet crude for 
August delivery rose a penny to $67.78 a barrel in Asian electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, 
mid-afternoon in Singapore. The contract fell $1.41 to settle at $67.77 a barrel Tuesday.
Dow, Murdoch in Agreement on Safeguards
NEW YORK (AP) Dow Jones & Co. and News Corp. agreed broadly on measures to protect the editorial 
independence of The Wall Street Journal under ownership by Rupert Murdoch's media conglomerate, clearing 
away a major hurdle in the way of a deal, a person familiar with the matter said Tuesday. Details of the agreement 
remained unclear, and any deal must still be approved by the full membership of Dow Jones' controlling 
shareholders, the Bancroft family, who initially rejected Murdoch's approach.
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
AP Financial NewsBrief at 7:43 a.m. EDT Wednesday, June 27, 2007
AP Financial NewsBrief at 7:43 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 11:43 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: DOMESTIC NEWS
Length: 760 words
Body
U.S. Stocks Tilt Toward Higher Open
NEW YORK (AP) U.S. stocks tilted toward a slightly higher open Wednesday as investors begin to position 
themselves before the Federal Reserve's two-day meeting on interest rates. Investors wary of turbulence in the 
past few weeks due to soaring bond yields will be looking for any clues of central bankers' views on the economy. 
The Fed is widely expected to keep the benchmark rate steady at 5.25 percent when its decision is announced on 
Thursday.
Fed Not Expected to Change Key Rate
WASHINGTON (AP) Keeping inflation under control as the economy emerges from a yearlong sluggish spell is 
certain to be a matter of lively debate for Federal Reserve policymakers. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his 
central bank colleagues open a two-day meeting Wednesday, where the economy's current and future performance 
will be assessed. The strength of the anticipated economic rebound, the depth of the housing slump, problems with 
risky mortgages, the state of the employment climate, and the direction of gasoline and other energy prices will 
figure prominently into those discussions.
Immigration Amendment Aimed at Day Labor
WASHINGTON (AP) Home Depot is tired of being forced by local governments to accommodate the day laborers 
who turn up in its store parking lots seeking construction work. So the Georgia-based company turned to Congress 
for help. The Senate could respond this week by attaching language to the immigration bill that would prohibit city 
councils from requiring home improvement stores to pay for shelters or other services to help maintain orderly day 
labor sites.
Oil Prices Fall in European Trading
VIENNA, Austria (AP) Oil prices fell Wednesday as traders awaited the release of a U.S. government inventory 
report expected to show increases in supplies of crude, gasoline and distillates. Still, comments from OPEC that the 
group did not plan to increase production in the coming months despite consistently high prices kept a relatively 
solid floor under markets.
AP Financial NewsBrief at 7:43 a.m. EDT Wednesday, June 27, 2007
EU Blocks Ryanair Bid for Aer Lingus
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) EU regulators blocked a hostile bid by low-fare carrier Ryanair for Ireland's Aer Lingus 
on Wednesday, saying the deal would limit consumer choice and likely boost ticket prices. Together, the two 
airlines would control more than 80 percent of all European flights to and from Dublin airport, the European 
Commission said.
Oracle's Acquisitions Paying Off
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) The $25 billion bill that Oracle Corp. has run up buying smaller business software makers 
looks like money well spent so far. In the latest validation of a spending spree that began 2 1/2 years ago, Oracle's 
fiscal fourth-quarter profit climbed 23 percent to $1.6 billion, or 31 cents per share.
Nike's 4Q Results Allay Fears
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) Nike Inc.'s products are focused on helping athletes set records, but the company set a few 
of its with fiscal fourth-quarter and year-end results that were well-received by analysts and investors. With growth 
in the U.S. and abroad, plus surprisingly strong future orders, Nike allayed fears and buoyed hopes for some about 
the future of the world's largest athletic shoe and clothing maker.
Nissan Developing Smaller Car Batteries
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn said Wednesday his company is working hard to develop the 
next generation of smaller, lighter auto batteries a technology that holds promise not just for hybrids but also for 
electric cars. Automakers are racing to develop viable lithium ion batteries, which are common in gadgets such as 
laptops and cell phones but have yet to be fully adapted to the more rigorous demands of a car engine.
China Shuts 180 Food Factories
BEIJING (AP) China has closed 180 food factories after inspectors found industrial chemicals being used in 
products from candy to seafood, state media said Wednesday. The closures came amid a nationwide crackdown on 
shoddy and dangerous products launched in December that also uncovered use of recycled or expired food, the 
China Daily said.
Dow, Murdoch in Agreement on Safeguards
NEW YORK (AP) Dow Jones & Co. and News Corp. agreed broadly on measures to protect the editorial 
independence of The Wall Street Journal under ownership by Rupert Murdoch's media conglomerate, clearing 
away a major hurdle in the way of a deal, a person familiar with the matter said Tuesday. Details of the agreement 
remained unclear, and any deal must still be approved by the full membership of Dow Jones' controlling 
shareholders, the Bancroft family, who initially rejected Murdoch's approach.
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
AP Financial NewsBrief at 7:08 a.m. EDT Wednesday, June 27, 2007
AP Financial NewsBrief at 7:08 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 11:08 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: DOMESTIC NEWS
Length: 770 words
Body
Fed Not Expected to Change Key Rate
WASHINGTON (AP) Keeping inflation under control as the economy emerges from a yearlong sluggish spell is 
certain to be a matter of lively debate for Federal Reserve policymakers. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his 
central bank colleagues open a two-day meeting Wednesday, where the economy's current and future performance 
will be assessed. The strength of the anticipated economic rebound, the depth of the housing slump, problems with 
risky mortgages, the state of the employment climate, and the direction of gasoline and other energy prices will 
figure prominently into those discussions.
U.S. Stocks Tilt Toward Higher Open
NEW YORK (AP) U.S. stocks tilted toward a slightly higher open Wednesday as investors begin to position 
themselves before the Federal Reserve's two-day meeting on interest rates. Investors wary of turbulence in the 
past few weeks due to soaring bond yields will be looking for any clues of central bankers' views on the economy. 
The Fed is widely expected to keep the benchmark rate steady at 5.25 percent when its decision is announced on 
Thursday.
Immigration Amendment Aimed at Day Labor
WASHINGTON (AP) Home Depot is tired of being forced by local governments to accommodate the day laborers 
who turn up in its store parking lots seeking construction work. So the Georgia-based company turned to Congress 
for help. The Senate could respond this week by attaching language to the immigration bill that would prohibit city 
councils from requiring home improvement stores to pay for shelters or other services to help maintain orderly day 
labor sites.
EU Blocks Ryanair Bid for Aer Lingus
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) EU regulators blocked a hostile bid by low-fare carrier Ryanair for Ireland's Aer Lingus 
on Wednesday, saying the deal would limit consumer choice and likely boost ticket prices. Together, the two 
airlines would control more than 80 percent of all European flights to and from Dublin airport, the European 
Commission said.
AP Financial NewsBrief at 7:08 a.m. EDT Wednesday, June 27, 2007
Oracle's Acquisitions Paying Off
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) The $25 billion bill that Oracle Corp. has run up buying smaller business software makers 
looks like money well spent so far. In the latest validation of a spending spree that began 2 1/2 years ago, Oracle's 
fiscal fourth-quarter profit climbed 23 percent to $1.6 billion, or 31 cents per share.
Nike's 4Q Results Allay Fears
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) Nike Inc.'s products are focused on helping athletes set records, but the company set a few 
of its with fiscal fourth-quarter and year-end results that were well-received by analysts and investors. With growth 
in the U.S. and abroad, plus surprisingly strong future orders, Nike allayed fears and buoyed hopes for some about 
the future of the world's largest athletic shoe and clothing maker.
Nissan Developing Smaller Car Batteries
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn said Wednesday his company is working hard to develop the 
next generation of smaller, lighter auto batteries a technology that holds promise not just for hybrids but also for 
electric cars. Automakers are racing to develop viable lithium ion batteries, which are common in gadgets such as 
laptops and cell phones but have yet to be fully adapted to the more rigorous demands of a car engine.
China Shuts 180 Food Factories
BEIJING (AP) China has closed 180 food factories after inspectors found industrial chemicals being used in 
products from candy to seafood, state media said Wednesday. The closures came amid a nationwide crackdown on 
shoddy and dangerous products launched in December that also uncovered use of recycled or expired food, the 
China Daily said.
Oil Prices Steady Below $68 a Barrel
SINGAPORE (AP) Oil prices were steady in Asia Wednesday as traders awaited the release of a U.S. government 
inventory report expected to show increases in supplies of crude, gasoline and distillates. Light, sweet crude for 
August delivery rose a penny to $67.78 a barrel in Asian electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, 
mid-afternoon in Singapore. The contract fell $1.41 to settle at $67.77 a barrel Tuesday.
Dow, Murdoch in Agreement on Safeguards
NEW YORK (AP) Dow Jones & Co. and News Corp. agreed broadly on measures to protect the editorial 
independence of The Wall Street Journal under ownership by Rupert Murdoch's media conglomerate, clearing 
away a major hurdle in the way of a deal, a person familiar with the matter said Tuesday. Details of the agreement 
remained unclear, and any deal must still be approved by the full membership of Dow Jones' controlling 
shareholders, the Bancroft family, who initially rejected Murdoch's approach.
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
EU blocks Ryanair bid for Aer Lingus on monopoly concerns
EU blocks Ryanair bid for Aer Lingus on monopoly concerns
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 11:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 552 words
Byline: By AOIFE WHITE, AP Business Writer
Dateline: BRUSSELS Belgium
Body
EU regulators blocked a hostile bid by low-fare carrier Ryanair for Ireland's Aer Lingus on Wednesday, saying the 
deal would limit consumer choice and likely boost ticket prices.
Together, the two airlines would control more than 80 percent of all European flights to and from Dublin airport, the 
European Commission said.
"Our decision to prohibit this merger was essential to safeguard Irish consumers who depend heavily on air 
transport," said EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes.
New airlines would be unlikely to enter the market because of Ryanair Holdings PLC's reputation for "aggressive 
retaliation" and its ability to temporarily slash fares and launch new routes to protect market position, it claimed.
"Any monopoly even if advertised as low-cost and low-fare is bad for consumers. The reality is that prices are 
higher and quality is lower when there is no competition," she said.
It is only the second time the EU has blocked a deal since 2001.
The 1.48 billion euros ($1.9 billion) takeover had seemed doomed after nearly half of Aer Lingus Group PLC 
shareholders vowed to block it.
Ryanair charged Tuesday that the EU decision was politically motivated and aimed to please the Irish government. 
The government and Ryanair each control about a quarter of Aer Lingus.
Ryanair vowed to take regulators to court, saying they were wrong to block the deal after approving the 
combinations of Air France and KLM and of Lufthansa and Swissair.
Regulators, however, say the Ryanair bid was unprecedented because both airlines have such a large share of 
routes at one airport, Dublin. In the previous bids, the airlines' main hubs were in different cities.
EU blocks Ryanair bid for Aer Lingus on monopoly concerns
Aer Lingus and Ryanair compete directly on 35 routes to and from Ireland, it said, and the combination would give 
them a monopoly on 22. The country has few alternative passenger ferry links to Britain and continental Europe.
"This would have reduced choice and, most likely, led to higher prices for more than 14 million EU passengers 
using these routes to and from Ireland each year," the European Commission said.
Changes offered by Ryanair to soothe EU concerns were inadequate, it said.
Regulators said the limited number of airport landing slots the airline offered to give away to new rivals would not 
replace the competitive pressure in the market that would disappear if Ryanair swallowed Aer Lingus.
"What is certain is that Ryanair proposed to end the intense competition between Ryanair and Aer Lingus at Dublin 
airport that has pushed prices down and brought Irish consumers an increasing choice of direct flight connections 
from Dublin," it said.
"It is highly unlikely that Irish consumers would be better off with a near monopoly, even if it were sweetened by a 
temporary, hard-to-monitor price rebate."
Aer Lingus chairman John Sharman said the EU decision was good news for the company and travelers.
"The creation of one dominant player out of Ireland despite the protestations of Ryanair just cannot be in the 
interests of consumers," he said.
Growing rapidly from its Irish base into Europe's largest low-cost carrier, Ryanair has revolutionized travel in 
Europe, spearheading no-frills cheap flights that forced Aer Lingus a former state-owned airline to do the same.
Associated Press Writer Shawn Pogatchnik in Dublin contributed to this report.
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
AP Financial NewsBrief at 8:29 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
AP Financial NewsBrief at 8:29 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 12:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: DOMESTIC NEWS
Length: 754 words
Body
U.S. Stocks Tilt Toward Higher Open
NEW YORK (AP) U.S. stocks tilted toward a slightly higher open Wednesday as investors begin to position 
themselves before the Federal Reserve's two-day meeting on interest rates. Investors wary of turbulence in the 
past few weeks due to soaring bond yields will be looking for any clues of central bankers' views on the economy. 
The Fed is widely expected to keep the benchmark rate steady at 5.25 percent when its decision is announced on 
Thursday.
ConAgra Profit More Than Triples
OMAHA, Neb. (AP) Despite ongoing costs of recalling its Peter Pan peanut butter, ConAgra Foods Inc. reported its 
fourth-quarter profit soared Thursday compared with results weighed down by restructuring charges a year ago. 
The food company said a strong quarter from its commodities trading division helped it post a profit of $192 million, 
or 39 cents per share, during the quarter that ended May 27 versus a profit of $59.2 million, or 11 cents per share, a 
year ago.
Fed Not Expected to Change Key Rate
WASHINGTON (AP) Keeping inflation under control as the economy emerges from a yearlong sluggish spell is 
certain to be a matter of lively debate for Federal Reserve policymakers. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his 
central bank colleagues open a two-day meeting Wednesday, where the economy's current and future performance 
will be assessed. The strength of the anticipated economic rebound, the depth of the housing slump, problems with 
risky mortgages, the state of the employment climate, and the direction of gasoline and other energy prices will 
figure prominently into those discussions.
Immigration Amendment Aimed at Day Labor
WASHINGTON (AP) Home Depot is tired of being forced by local governments to accommodate the day laborers 
who turn up in its store parking lots seeking construction work. So the Georgia-based company turned to Congress 
for help. The Senate could respond this week by attaching language to the immigration bill that would prohibit city 
councils from requiring home improvement stores to pay for shelters or other services to help maintain orderly day 
labor sites.
AP Financial NewsBrief at 8:29 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
Oil Prices Fall in European Trading
VIENNA, Austria (AP) Oil prices fell Wednesday as traders awaited the release of a U.S. government inventory 
report expected to show increases in supplies of crude, gasoline and distillates. Still, comments from OPEC that the 
group did not plan to increase production in the coming months despite consistently high prices kept a relatively 
solid floor under markets.
EU Blocks Ryanair Bid for Aer Lingus
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) EU regulators blocked a hostile bid by low-fare carrier Ryanair for Ireland's Aer Lingus 
on Wednesday, saying the deal would limit consumer choice and likely boost ticket prices. Together, the two 
airlines would control more than 80 percent of all European flights to and from Dublin airport, the European 
Commission said.
Oracle's Acquisitions Paying Off
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) The $25 billion bill that Oracle Corp. has run up buying smaller business software makers 
looks like money well spent so far. In the latest validation of a spending spree that began 2 1/2 years ago, Oracle's 
fiscal fourth-quarter profit climbed 23 percent to $1.6 billion, or 31 cents per share.
Nike's 4Q Results Allay Fears
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) Nike Inc.'s products are focused on helping athletes set records, but the company set a few 
of its with fiscal fourth-quarter and year-end results that were well-received by analysts and investors. With growth 
in the U.S. and abroad, plus surprisingly strong future orders, Nike allayed fears and buoyed hopes for some about 
the future of the world's largest athletic shoe and clothing maker.
Nissan Developing Smaller Car Batteries
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn said Wednesday his company is working hard to develop the 
next generation of smaller, lighter auto batteries a technology that holds promise not just for hybrids but also for 
electric cars. Automakers are racing to develop viable lithium ion batteries, which are common in gadgets such as 
laptops and cell phones but have yet to be fully adapted to the more rigorous demands of a car engine.
China Shuts 180 Food Factories
BEIJING (AP) China has closed 180 food factories after inspectors found industrial chemicals being used in 
products from candy to seafood, state media said Wednesday. The closures came amid a nationwide crackdown on 
shoddy and dangerous products launched in December that also uncovered use of recycled or expired food, the 
China Daily said.
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
AP Financial NewsBrief at 9:32 a.m. EDT Wednesday, June 27, 2007
AP Financial NewsBrief at 9:32 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 1:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: DOMESTIC NEWS
Length: 715 words
Body
Orders for Manufactured Goods Plunge
WASHINGTON (AP) Orders to U.S. factories for big-ticket manufactured goods plunged in May by the largest 
amount in four months as demand for aircraft, heavy machinery and metals all declined. The Commerce 
Department reported Wednesday that new durable goods orders dropped by 2.8 percent last month, a far bigger 
drop than the 1 percent decline economists had been forecasting.
Stock Prices Slip Ahead of Fed Meeting
NEW YORK (AP) Stock prices are lower in early trading today as investors digested a drop in May durable goods 
and awaited the Federal Reserve's two-day meeting on interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 31.05 
to 13,306.61 in the opening minutes.
ConAgra Profit More Than Triples
OMAHA, Neb. (AP) Despite ongoing costs of recalling its Peter Pan peanut butter, ConAgra Foods Inc. reported its 
fourth-quarter profit soared Wednesday compared with results weighed down by restructuring charges a year ago. 
The food company said a strong quarter from its commodities trading division helped it post a profit of $192 million, 
or 39 cents per share, during the quarter that ended May 27 versus a profit of $59.2 million, or 11 cents per share, a 
year ago.
Fed Not Expected to Change Key Rate
WASHINGTON (AP) Keeping inflation under control as the economy emerges from a yearlong sluggish spell is 
certain to be a matter of lively debate for Federal Reserve policymakers. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his 
central bank colleagues open a two-day meeting Wednesday, where the economy's current and future performance 
will be assessed. The strength of the anticipated economic rebound, the depth of the housing slump, problems with 
risky mortgages, the state of the employment climate, and the direction of gasoline and other energy prices will 
figure prominently into those discussions.
Oil Prices Fall in European Trading
AP Financial NewsBrief at 9:32 a.m. EDT Wednesday, June 27, 2007
VIENNA, Austria (AP) Oil prices fell Wednesday as traders awaited the release of a U.S. government inventory 
report expected to show increases in supplies of crude, gasoline and distillates. Still, comments from OPEC that the 
group did not plan to increase production in the coming months despite consistently high prices kept a relatively 
solid floor under markets.
Immigration Amendment Aimed at Day Labor
WASHINGTON (AP) Home Depot is tired of being forced by local governments to accommodate the day laborers 
who turn up in its store parking lots seeking construction work. So the Georgia-based company turned to Congress 
for help. The Senate could respond this week by attaching language to the immigration bill that would prohibit city 
councils from requiring home improvement stores to pay for shelters or other services to help maintain orderly day 
labor sites.
EU Blocks Ryanair Bid for Aer Lingus
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) EU regulators blocked a hostile bid by low-fare carrier Ryanair for Ireland's Aer Lingus 
on Wednesday, saying the deal would limit consumer choice and likely boost ticket prices. Together, the two 
airlines would control more than 80 percent of all European flights to and from Dublin airport, the European 
Commission said.
Oracle's Acquisitions Paying Off
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) The $25 billion bill that Oracle Corp. has run up buying smaller business software makers 
looks like money well spent so far. In the latest validation of a spending spree that began 2 1/2 years ago, Oracle's 
fiscal fourth-quarter profit climbed 23 percent to $1.6 billion, or 31 cents per share.
Nike's 4Q Results Allay Fears
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) Nike Inc.'s products are focused on helping athletes set records, but the company set a few 
of its with fiscal fourth-quarter and year-end results that were well-received by analysts and investors. With growth 
in the U.S. and abroad, plus surprisingly strong future orders, Nike allayed fears and buoyed hopes for some about 
the future of the world's largest athletic shoe and clothing maker.
Nissan Sees Future in Electric Cars
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn said Wednesday his company is working hard to develop the 
next generation of smaller, lighter auto batteries a technology that holds promise for electric cars as well as for 
hybrids. He also said Nissan and its French partner Renault SA are moving ahead with studies on a $3,000 car for 
the Indian market.
Load-Date: June 28, 2007
End of Document
AP Financial NewsBrief at 9:33 a.m. EDT Wednesday, June 27, 2007
AP Financial NewsBrief at 9:33 a.m. EDT; Wednesday, June 27, 2007
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 1:34 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: DOMESTIC NEWS
Length: 710 words
Body
Orders for Manufactured Goods Plunge
WASHINGTON (AP) Orders to U.S. factories for big-ticket manufactured goods plunged in May by the largest 
amount in four months as demand for aircraft, heavy machinery and metals all declined. The Commerce 
Department reported Wednesday that new durable goods orders dropped by 2.8 percent last month, a far bigger 
drop than the 1 percent decline economists had been forecasting.
Stock Prices Slip Ahead of Fed Meeting
NEW YORK (AP) Stock prices are lower in early trading today as investors digested a drop in May durable goods 
and awaited the Federal Reserve's two-day meeting on interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 55.44 
to 13,282.22 in the opening minutes.
ConAgra Profit More Than Triples
OMAHA, Neb. (AP) Despite ongoing costs of recalling its Peter Pan peanut butter, ConAgra Foods Inc. reported its 
fourth-quarter profit soared Wednesday compared with results weighed down by restructuring charges a year ago. 
The food company said a strong quarter from its commodities trading division helped it post a profit of $192 million, 
or 39 cents per share, during the quarter that ended May 27 versus a profit of $59.2 million, or 11 cents per share, a 
year ago.
Fed Not Expected to Change Key Rate
WASHINGTON (AP) Keeping inflation under control as the economy emerges from a yearlong sluggish spell is 
certain to be a matter of lively debate for Federal Reserve policymakers. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his 
central bank colleagues open a two-day meeting Wednesday, where the economy's current and future performance 
will be assessed. The strength of the anticipated economic rebound, the depth of the housing slump, problems with 
risky mortgages, the state of the employment climate, and the direction of gasoline and other energy prices will 
figure prominently into those discussions.
Oil Prices Slip Toward $67 a Barrel
AP Financial NewsBrief at 9:33 a.m. EDT Wednesday, June 27, 2007
VIENNA, Austria (AP) Oil prices fell Wednesday as traders awaited the release of a U.S. government inventory 
report expected to show increases in supplies of crude, gasoline and distillates. Comments from OPEC that the 
group did not plan to increase production in the coming months despite consistently high prices limited the decline.
Immigration Amendment Aimed at Day Labor
WASHINGTON (AP) Home Depot is tired of being forced by local governments to accommodate the day laborers 
who turn up in its store parking lots seeking construction work. So the Georgia-based company turned to Congress 
for help. The Senate could respond this week by attaching language to the immigration bill that would prohibit city 
councils from requiring home improvement stores to pay for shelters or other services to help maintain orderly day 
labor sites.
EU Blocks Ryanair Bid for Aer Lingus
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) EU regulators blocked a hostile bid by low-fare carrier Ryanair for Ireland's Aer Lingus 
on Wednesday, saying the deal would limit consumer choice and likely boost ticket prices. Together, the two 
airlines would control more than 80 percent of all European flights to and from Dublin airport, the European 
Commission said.
Oracle's Acquisitions Paying Off
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) The $25 billion bill that Oracle Corp. has run up buying smaller business software makers 
looks like money well spent so far. In the latest validation of a spending spree that began 2 1/2 years ago, Oracle's 
fiscal fourth-quarter profit climbed 23 percent to $1.6 billion, or 31 cents per share.
Nike's 4Q Results Allay Fears
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) Nike Inc.'s products are focused on helping athletes set records, but the company set a few 
of its with fiscal fourth-quarter and year-end results that were well-received by analysts and investors. With growth 
in the U.S. and abroad, plus surprisingly strong future orders, Nike allayed fears and buoyed hopes for some about 
the future of the world's largest athletic shoe and clothing maker.
Nissan Sees Future in Electric Cars
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn said Wednesday his company is working hard to develop the 
next generation of smaller, lighter auto batteries a technology that holds promise for electric cars as well as for 
hybrids. He also said Nissan and its French partner Renault SA are moving ahead with studies on a $3,000 car for 
the Indian market.
Load-Date: June 28, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ down 1.75pc as banks take a beating
ISEQ down 1.75pc as banks take a beating
Business World (Digest) 
June 27, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 251 words
Highlight: Financial shares took a beating in the opening hours of trading in Dublin this morning.
Body
Financial shares took a beating in the opening hours of trading in Dublin this morning, with Anglo Irish Bank, Bank 
of Ireland and AIB all plummeting by around 3pc.
Those sharp falls dragged the overall ISEQ index of Irish shares sharply lower. Just before 1100, the ISEQ was 
down 161.62 points to 9,222.68.
Shares in AIB slumped 65c to 20.05, while Anglo Irish fell 60c to 14.90 and Bank of Ireland was down 37c to 14.92. 
Irish Life and Permanent was also in the red, down 42c to 18.25.
 The falls came on the back of a profit warning from UK bank Northern Rock. The company said today that its full-
year profit is set to undershoot the current consensus analyst forecast, as rising forward interest rates take their toll 
on lending income. The news would appear to have sent a jolt through investors here. Other notable movers 
included CRH, down 46c to 36.30, FBD Holdings, up 34c to 32.30 and Paddy Power, down 18c to 21.45. Shares in 
Ryanair fell two points after it was confirmed that its bid for Aer Lingus has been blocked by the EU. The news had 
been widely expected and the decision already priced in over recent months. Aer Lingus was unchanged at 2.60. 
Elsewhere in Dublin, C and C was down by a further 1pc, or 13c, today to 10.08. The drinks group has been hit in 
recent days by fears over how the recent run of bad weather in the UK and Ireland will affect sales of its cider. Also, 
new data from the UK Customs and Excise revealed a slowdown in growth of the amount of cider clearances during 
April.
Load-Date: June 29, 2007
End of Document
ISEQ sharply lower as banks slump
ISEQ sharply lower as banks slump
Business World (Digest) 
June 27, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 488 words
Highlight: Financial shares took a beating in Dublin today as fears continue to grow over a slowdown in mortgage 
lending.
Body
Financial shares took a beating in Dublin today as fears continue to grow over a slowdown in mortgage lending.
Banks were given a severe jolt after British mortgage lender Northern Rock issued a profit warning. The company, 
which is one of the top five biggest mortgage lenders in the UK, said that its full-year profit is set to undershoot the 
current consensus analyst forecast, as rising forward interest rates take their toll on lending income.
The warning came hot on the heels of a recent cautious outlook from Ireland's largest mortgage lender Irish Life 
and Permanent. It warned earlier this month that it expects E800m less new mortgage lending this year.
 This has led some investors to think a property slump could be on the way in Ireland, dealers said yesterday. The 
uncertainty left leading Irish banks languishing in the red yesterday, with Anglo Irish Bank down 4pc, or 62c, to 
14.88, Bank of Ireland down 3pc, or 49c, to 14.80 and AIB down 3pc, or 60c, to 20.09. Irish Life and Permanent 
dropped 40c to 18.26. Those falls left the overall ISEQ index of Irish shares 147.50 points lower at 9,236.80. The 
market was also hit by new figures which showed that Irish consumer sentiment weakened in June as a result of job 
losses, inflation and interest rates. Investors also pulled back ahead of the results of the Federal Reserve's two-day 
meeting on U.S. interest rates. The central bank was expected to keep the benchmark rate steady at 5.25pc. Back 
in Dublin, CRH dragged the construction sector lower, falling 49c to 36.27, while Kingspan and McInerney both 
slipped 7c to 20.35 and 2.42 respectively. Grafton ended the session 24c lower at 10.50 with housebuilder Abbey 
down 5c at 10.40. Other notable movers included United Drug, down 10c to 3.95, Smurfit Kappa, down 32c to 18.56 
and IAWS, down 13c to 15.77. Independent News & Media and Irish Continental Group both ended the day 
unchanged at 3.60 and 22.60 respectively. Elan was one of the few stocks to make any positive movement, with 
shares in the drug maker jumping 25c to 16.08 on speculation that it could be a takeover target for its U.S. Tysabri 
partner Biogen Idec. Icon edged up 115c to 32.65, while Trinity Biotech tacked on 10c to close at 2.16. Elsewhere, 
shares in drinks group C and C continued their recent slide, down 13c to 10.08, amid concerns that the wet start to 
ISEQ sharply lower as banks slump
the summer will have a detrimental effect on the amount of cider being drunk in the UK and Ireland. Meanwhile, 
Ryanair slipped 3c to 4.97 following confirmation that the European Commission has blocked its E1.48bn hostile 
takeover of Aer Lingus. Ryanair has vowed to appeal the ruling. Shares in Aer Lingus ended the session 5c lower at 
2.55 after Ryanair's chief executive warned that Aer Lingus' share price would fall to around 1.50 if his airline was to 
sell its 25pc shareholding. Mr O'Leary stressed, however, that Ryanair has no intention of selling its minority stake.
Load-Date: June 29, 2007
End of Document
Aer Lingus welcomes EU bid decision
Aer Lingus welcomes EU bid decision
Business World (Digest) 
June 27, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 253 words
Highlight: Aer Lingus welcomed the EU's decision to block Ryanair's bid for it.
Body
Aer Lingus today welcomed the EU's decision to block Ryanair's bid for the airline, saying that it is "good news for 
its customers."
In a statement issued today, the airline said, "the Board of Aer Lingus welcomes the EU Commission's prohibition 
decision, relating to Ryanair's hostile bid, announced today following an exhaustive investigation of the competition 
issues surrounding this unwelcome bid.
"Today's prohibition decision, following the EU Commission's exhaustive investigation, is good news for Aer Lingus 
and for our customers. Consumer choice is at the core of every competitive market and the creation of one 
dominant player out of Ireland, despite the protestations of Ryanair, just cannot be in the interests of consumers. 
Aer Lingus has made tremendous strides over a relatively short time in successfully executing our strategy and that 
work will continue apace. We are determined to deliver on our excellent prospects as an independent company and 
I'd like to thank our staff for their continued commitment. 
 "Today's prohibition announcement supports the Board's position and allows the Company to get on with what it 
does best - providing consumers with choice, with year round low fares on direct services to popular destinations 
and with a commitment that we will look after our passengers in the event of disruptions. Aer Lingus already 
competes successfully with Ryanair across many routes and will continue to do so in the interests of all consumers, 
said John Sharman, chairman of Aer Lingus 
Load-Date: June 29, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair confirms it will fight EU ruling
Ryanair confirms it will fight EU ruling
Business World (Digest) 
June 27, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 562 words
Highlight: Ryanair has confirmed that it will appeal the EC's decision to block its proposed acquisition of Aer 
Lingus.
Body
Ryanair has confirmed that it will appeal the European Commission's decision to block its proposed E1.48bn hostile 
acquisition of Aer Lingus.
The airline told reporters at press briefing in Dublin this afternoon that would mount the appeal at the European 
Court of First Instance.
The company said it is confident the court will overturn the EC's ruling. 
 However, a decision is unlikely to be reached for up to two years and even if the appeal is fast tracked Ryanair 
chief executive, Michael O'Leary, said it is likely to take at least 18 months. "We look forward to the European 
Courts overturning this unprecedented and unlawful prohibition," Mr O'Leary said. O'Leary described the decision to 
block its bid as "unlawful" and said the EU has "overturned twenty years of airline precedency". The airline pointed 
to a number of takeovers in the airline sector in recent years such as Air France's deal with KLM and the merger 
between Lufthansa and Swiss. The EU said this morning that it had blocked Ryanair's bid as the combination of it 
and Aer Lingus would be anti-competitive and harm consumers by creating a monopoly on 22 routes and a 
dominant position with a market share over 60pc on a further 13. It added that the deal would have reduced choice 
and, most likely, led to higher prices for more than 14 million passengers in the EU using these routes to and from 
Ireland each year. O'Leary said this afternoon described this reasoning as "bull****". "This is a political block and 
has nothing to do with consumers and nothing to do with fares," he said. The outspoken boss also criticised the 
Board and Management of Aer Lingus for their "continuing failure to deliver value for its customers or 
shareholders". He questioned Aer Lingus' decision to recently order new long haul aircraft when prices are at an all 
time high. "Aer Lingus' actions in recent weeks have damaged its cost base and destroyed significant shareholder 
value. It would appear that the Board of Aer Lingus is more interested in looking after its own interests and those of 
the Irish Government than it is in lowering airfares or increasing its share price." 'The EU prohibition leaves Aer 
Ryanair confirms it will fight EU ruling
Lingus as a struggling, loss making, third-tier small Irish airline. It will dawn on them that they cannot compete with 
Ryanair on. Aer Lingus is irrelevant." He again called on Aer Lingus to remove all fuel surcharges and to reduce 
fares, which O'Leary claims are costing the Irish consumer E100m per annum. "Aer Lingus claimed yesterday that 
the EU Commission's prohibition is 'another boost for Aer Lingus and for consumers'. This is nonsense. Aer Lingus' 
share price is now significantly below Ryanair's E2.80 offer which means that their shareholders are losing out. The 
fact that consumers will be denied the Ryanair guarantee of lower Aer Lingus fares and the elimination of fuel 
surcharges means that they will suffer a penalty of over E100m per annum" "Aer Lingus is continuing to waste 
shareholders' money by ordering new aircraft at the top of the cycle, by supporting expensive T2 facilities at Dublin 
airport which will double their costs and by wasting almost E20m of shareholders funds to oppose Ryanair's E2.80 
offer. This waste has been reflected in their falling share price," he added. At 1530 in Dublin, shares in Aer Lingus 
were unchanged at E2.60, while Ryanair was down 4c at E4.96.
Load-Date: June 29, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair buy of Aer Lingus blocked by EU
Ryanair buy of Aer Lingus blocked by EU
Business World (Digest) 
June 27, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 848 words
Highlight: Ryanair buy of Aer Lingus has been blocked by EU, it emerged today.
Body
The European Commission has blocked Irish low-cost air carrier Ryanair proposed E1.48 billion hostile acquisition 
of Aer Lingus.
It said the combination would be anti-competitive and harm consumers by creating a monopoly on 22 routes and a 
dominant position with a market share over 60pc on a further 13.
It added the deal would have reduced choice and, most likely, led to higher prices for more than 14 million 
passengers in the EU using these routes to and from Ireland each year.
 The EU executive also confirmed that Ryanair's proposed remedies offered during the investigation were 
'inadequate' and 'insufficient' to alleviate competition concerns. The 'limited number' of airport slots offered were 'not 
likely to lead to competition sufficient to replace the competitive pressure currently exercised by each airline on the 
other', it continued. The commission said both Ryanair and Aer Lingus are currently by far the largest airlines 
offering short-haul flights to and from Ireland and constitute the main competitive constraints on each other on these 
routes. It says their position is particularly strong to and from Dublin, where the merged entity would have 
accounted for around 80 pct of all intra-European traffic. It's investigation also revealed that most airlines were 
unlikely to enter into direct competition against a merged Ryanair/Aer Lingus in Ireland. 'This is not only because 
the merged entity would be able to operate from the very large bases of Ryanair and Aer Lingus in Ireland ... but 
also because Ryanair has a reputation of aggressive retaliation against any entry attempt by competitors,' it 
reasoned. 'A merged Ryanair/Aer Lingus would have had even greater flexibility to engage in selective short-term 
price reductions and capacity increases if competitors entered routes to and from Ireland, in order to protect its 
powerful market position,' it added. 'The likelihood of entry is further reduced by peak-time congestion at Dublin 
airport and other airports on overlap routes.' The commission said this case differs from previous airline mergers it 
had cleared, because it is the first time it has assessed a tie-up of the two main airlines in a single country with both 
operating from the same 'home' airport, in this case Dublin. It is also the first time the commission has assessed a 
Ryanair buy of Aer Lingus blocked by EU
merger of two 'low-cost' airlines, operating on a 'point-to-point' basis, it said, adding the number of overlapping 
routes is 'unprecedented'. EU competition commissioner Neelie Kroes said: 'Our decision to prohibit this merger 
was essential to safeguard Irish consumers, who depend heavily on air transport, and other EU consumers. 
''Monopolies are bad for consumers because they reduce choice, lower quality and give rise to higher prices. Low-
cost carriers like Ryanair are no exception to this rule'. It is only the 20th time the commission has blocked a merger 
out of 3,000 cases since 1990. It is also the first time in that period the EU has vetoed a combination in the EU 
aviation industry. Yesterday, Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary said he expected the veto and launched a 
blistering attack against EU regulators over their analysis of the deal and what he termed 'persistent and repeated' 
leaks by the commission of confidential information regarding the process and decision-making of the file. The 
group has filed a formal complaint to the EU ombudsman over the alleged leaks. He also claimed the decision is 
'nakedly political', with the commission intent on 'facilitating the interests of the Irish government'. The EU executive 
denied all charges made against it. On the analysis, O'Leary said the two Irish airlines' combined share of route 
activity from Dublin is equivalent to other merged airlines' shares of their own European regional airports. He also 
said the proposed takeover would affect less than 5pc of the European airline market and would result in E200 
million cost savings, as well as E100 million in savings for customers from lower fares and the scrapping of fuel 
surcharges. O'Leary said he has a 'high degree of confidence' that the EU's second-highest court, the European 
Court of Instance, will overturn the block, following an appeal lodged within two months of the EU executive's ruling. 
Ryanair withdrew its 2.80 eur per share takeover bid at the end of December last year after the commission 
launched an in-depth inquiry citing 'serious competition concerns'. It built up a 25.2pc stake in Aer Lingus before 
launching its bid. The deal has faced opposition from the start. Aer Lingus and its largest shareholder, the Irish 
government, fiercely opposed the deal. Unions have also expressed concern. Ryanair operates low-cost services 
on more than 400 routes across Europe and carried more than 40 mln passengers last year. Aer Lingus has 
changed its business model in recent years to offer mainly low-cost short-haul flights. It operates more than 80 
routes and carried more than 8.6 million passengers last year. Its operations are limited to routes to and from 
Ireland, operating from Dublin, Shannon and Cork. 
Load-Date: June 29, 2007
End of Document
Wednesday Papers: tips and comment
Wednesday Papers: tips and comment
Citywire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 6:53 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 518 words
Body
Comment on BAE, ABN, Bear Stearns, Ryanair, Go-Ahead, Chemring, Domino Printing, WS Atkins, Debt Free 
Direct, Ashtead Group and Intercytex.
FTLex Column: * BAE Systems - with sales of about £10 billion, the Eurofighter order has a net present value of 
about 65p-a-share. That helps explain the move, but requires the market to have previously been blithely optimistic 
that a deal would happen. Otherwise, it seems overdone * ABN without LaSalle - it seems likely that its decision to 
sell LaSalle at a high price may actually have enhanced, rather than damaged, investors' interests * Bear Stearns - 
all told, this episode has been a black eye for one of Wall Street's cannier players * Cheyne/subprime - incredibly, 
Queen's Walk has almost certainly been more cautious than many unquoted peers * Ryanair/Aer Lingus - rejecting 
the deal outright risks giving the impression that, as with Tesco in the UK, the most efficient operator in its market is 
being penalised for its success
Lombard (p.20): * Investors are gambling on the promise of biofuel - Photo-Me International slow to develop
Other comment: * Near Stearns stands firm in face of trouble (p.28) - Northern Rock feels heat of tightening 
mortgage sector (p.42) - Wood Group firm on talk of a deal with Amec (p.42) - Bid rumours boost Premier Oil (p.42) 
- US subprime mortgage worries unsettle Bluebay Asset Management (p.42) - Rumours that Wolfson 
Microelectronics audio chips would not form part of Apple's iPhone (p.42) - Talk that bad weather has hit C&C's 
cider sales (p.42) - Funding fears overshadow Tanfield (p.42)
THE TIMESTempus: * Go Ahead Group no more than a hold - Hold Chemring - Domino Printing: better value 
elsewhere
Business Editor: * Insecurities likely to fortify BAE Systems - BMW: the drive for eco-friendliness - Market forces: 
Bank of England and the 'brain drain'
Other comment: * Could Centrica be planning another round of cost-cutting? - Private & Commercial a smaller 
stock to watch - Fundraising rumours hit Tanfield
DAILY TELEGRAPHQuestor: * Avoid WS Atkins - Hold Debt Free Direct#
Comment: * BAE Systems is a huge motive for Gordon Brown to act on extradition - Funds may frustrate ABN 
shareholders' auction hopes - Carpetright: Lord Harris's secretiveness makes one think the worst
Wednesday Papers: tips and comment
Other comment: * Dealers work up a thirst as Carlsberg hint at a major deal
THE INDEPENDENTInvestment Column: * Buy Ashtead Group - Buy Chemring - Intercytex a risky buy
Outlook: * Out of the frying pan into the fire for BAE Systems - Royal Bank of Scotland to soldier on with ABN Amro 
bid - Sky again targeted by regulator
Other comment: * Vodafone buzzes on talk of Apple iPhone deal
THE GUARDIANViewpoint: * ABN Amro: this long running bid battle is far from over - Mike Ashley seems to have 
made a new friend in City lawyer Christopher Mort - Tesco: life in the indies
Other comment: * Britain's smoking ban sends brewers east as western markets go flat
DAILY MAIL * Scottish & Newcastle bid talk is brewing again
DAILY EXPRESS * Scottish & Newcastle froths up on Carlsberg bid hopes - Gossips believe a bullish update from 
Cape is due shortly
Load-Date: June 30, 2007
End of Document
Tougher than he looks
Tougher than he looks
Financial Times (London, England)
June 27, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 3
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES UK; Pg. 20
Length: 201 words
Body
Dermot Mannion may seem an unlikely candidate to give Michael O'Leary a bit of his own medicine. The ascetic-
looking 49-year-old former accountant may be softly spoken but he does not mince his words. On the eve of an 
expected European Commission ruling blocking Ryanair's hostile takeover, Mr Mannion derided his rival for his 
"vain attempt to disguise . . . failure" as Mr O'Leary typically lashed out over the ruling.
His thin-framed glasses and west of Ireland burr give Mr Mannion the appearance of a friendly teacher or a priest. 
Those that know him say he is much tougher than he looks. When he took the job in 2005 - succeeding Willie 
Walsh, who went on run British Airways - it was certainly a culture shock. He had spent the previous 18 years 
working with Emirates Airlines in the Gulf, where business is conducted on a consensual basis and personal attacks 
frowned upon. But the Sligo-born businessman may be just the man to preserve Aer Lingus's independence. He 
maintained a house in Sligo despite moving to the Gulf with his four children and wife Anne. They remained active 
in Irish expatriate circles in Dubai, where he served as a judge in the local round of the Rose of Tralee beauty 
contest.
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair / Aer Lingus LEX COLUMN
Ryanair/Aer Lingus LEX COLUMN
Financial Times (London, England)
June 27, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 18
Length: 324 words
Body
The European Commission is expected to announce this week that it will block a takeover of Aer Lingus by Ryanair. 
Has Aer Lingus, the Irish flag carrier, and the Irish government, which also opposed the deal, won an unfair victory?
The decision seems to centre on fears that a dominant Ryanair/Aer Lingus at Dublin airport - with about two-thirds 
of short-haul traffic - would hurt passengers. Ryanair counters that, in previous deals, the competition authorities 
have been willing to tolerate an increase in airport dominance. Air France and KLM, before their merger, both 
already controlled more than two-thirds of traffic in their domestic airports of Paris and Amsterdam. Since nearly 
two-fifths of flights at Dublin are run by other airlines, it seems unreasonable to suggest that, other than capacity 
constraints, there are significant barriers to entry there.
So there are reasons to question the Commission's decision. But the mudslinging by both sides that has 
characterised this takeover battle cannot obscure the dilemma the competition authorities face. With 60 per cent of 
Dublin flights, a merged Ryanair/Aer Lingus would still face competition. And Ryanair has committed, convincingly, 
to lowering ticket prices. But it is quite possible that, simply through organic growth if not by this acquisition, Ryanair 
will increase its share of Dublin flightsyet further. Of course, such progress is not a given and stopping it from 
buying Aer Lingus will inevitably delay it. But if Ryanair had, say, 80 per cent of flights, passengers would not, 
realistically, have an alternative.
Giving up slots at Dublin, or possibly some form of price control, could remedy this situation, although the 
Commission and Ryanair might find it difficult to agree what was necessary. Rejecting the deal outright, though, 
risks giving the impression that, as with Tesco in the UK, the most efficient operator in its market is being penalised 
for its success.
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
UK AND IRELAND : Ryanair chief attacks Brussels over merger veto
UK AND IRELAND: Ryanair chief attacks Brussels over merger veto
Financial Times (London, England)
June 27, 2007 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited
Section: COMPANIES: UK AND IRELAND; Pg. 22
Length: 354 words
Byline: By TOBIAS BUCK
Dateline: BRUSSELS 
Body
Michael O'Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, yesterday launched a fierce attack on a plan by the European 
Commission to block his take- over bid for Irish rival Aer Lingus, saying it was "bizarre, illogical, manifestly 
inaccurate and untenable".
Denouncing the decision as "politically motivated", Mr O'Leary also warned the Brussels regulator not to take aim at 
Ryanair's current stake in Aer Lingus. The low-cost carrier holds 25 per cent of its rival's shares, but the 
Commission might decide to open a new procedure against Ryanair to force a sale of the holding.
The famously abrasive Ryanair chief - who in a previous clash with Brussels attacked the Commission as an "evil 
empire" - said such an order would further undermine Aer Lingus' share price.
"Not only will you destabilise Aer Lingus, but all the minority shareholders are going to be under water as a result of 
the actions of the Irish government and the European Commission," Mr O'Leary said.
Aer Lingus' shares were floated at Euros 2.20 last year - 60 cents below the price subsequently offered by Ryanair. 
Yesterday, the Irish flag carrier's shares closed at Euros 2.60.
Dermot Mannion, Aer Lingus chief executive, said Mr O'Leary had "sought to take out his closest competitor and he 
has failed. He is now lashing out in a vain attempt to disguise that failure".
The Commission is expected to announce today it will prohibit the takeover, citing concerns over its impact on 
competitionin the Irish market. It wouldbe the first takeover to be blocked by Brussels since 2004.
Mr O'Leary said the expected ruling reflected the Irish government's wish to keep Aer Lingus independent, insisting 
that any competition concerns were bogus. "The European Commission is going to come out and say (the 
takeover) is going to create high barriers to entry at Dublin airport. That is bullshit."
UK AND IRELAND : Ryanair chief attacks Brussels over merger veto
Mr O'Leary also claimed the transaction would have benefited consumers to the tune of Euros 100m (Pounds 67m) 
a year, thanks to an offer to lower prices and eliminate fuel surcharges. The Commission said it refuted 
"completely" allegations its decisions were politically motivated.
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
EU blocks Ryanair takeover of Aer Lingus on monopoly concerns
EU blocks Ryanair takeover of Aer Lingus on monopoly concerns
Citywire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 12:38 PM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 380 words
Body
The EU Commission has blocked a 1.48 billion bid by Ryanair to take over rival Irish carrier Aer Lingus saying the 
lack of competition would lead to higher ticket prices.
The budget Ryanair (RYA) would have assumed a monopoly on 22 routes and a 60%-plus market share on 13 
others affecting a total of more than 14 million passengers, the commission said.
Both carriers account for about 80% of the airline passenger traffic in and out of Dublin, the report said.
Ryanair built up a one-quarter interest in Aer Lingus (AERL) stock before the bid last December, but cannot be 
made to sell its stake, the head of the commission told reporters in Brussels.
The commission said other carriers would be unlikely to compete against a merged Ryanair and Aer Lingus 
because of their superior market share and Ryanair's history of retaliation against competitors.
'This is not only because the merged entity would be able to operate from the very large bases of Ryanair and Aer 
Lingus in Irelandbut because Ryanair has a reputation of aggressive retaliation against any entry attempt by 
competitors,' it said.
It was the first time the commission had blocked an aviation merger and only the 20th time overall in 3,000 cases 
since 1990.
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary said yesterday he expected the verdict, accused the commission of 
repeatedly leaking sensitive information and had launched a formal complaint to the EU ombudsman.
O'Leary also plans to appeal the commission's ruling to the European Court of Instance. His case is that the 
combined carriers' share of Dublin traffic is similar to other merged airlines in their home markets.
Also, it represents less than 5% of European traffic and would save 200 million for the airlines and 100 million for 
passengers by lowering fares and eliminating fuel surcharges, he says.
Aer Lingus chairman John Sharman said the ruling was good for competition.
'Consumer choice is at the core of every competitive market and the creation of one dominant player out of Ireland, 
despite the protestations of Ryanair, just cannot be in the interest of consumers,' Sharman said.
EU blocks Ryanair takeover of Aer Lingus on monopoly concerns
Shares in Ryanair nosed up 0.0425p to 5.0125p in London for a market value of 7.7 billion.
Aer Lingus dipped 0.0687p to 2.5763p in London valuing the company at 1.375 billion.
Load-Date: June 30, 2007
End of Document
Consumer body welcomes Ryanair ruling
Consumer body welcomes Ryanair ruling
Business World (Digest) 
June 27, 2007
Copyright  2007 Media World Ltd. All rights reserved 
Length: 110 words
Highlight: The Consumers Association welcomed the decision by the EU Commission to block Ryanair's bid for 
Aer Lingus.
Body
The Consumers Association has welcomed the decision by the EU Commission to block Ryanair's hostile bid for 
Aer Lingus.
Despite assurances from Ryanair that it would abolish flight surcharges and drop prices, the Association said a 
Ryanair monopoly in Ireland would result in the airline making more money and the travelling public getting less 
value.
Announcing the decision today, Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes said a merger between the two 
companies would be a threat to consumer choice and a recipe for higher fares.
 Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary has already vowed to launch a legal challenge to the decision at the 
European Court in Luxembourg.
Load-Date: June 29, 2007
End of Document
Wednesday Papers: RBS considering reduced bid for ABN without LaSalle - bid news and gossip
Wednesday Papers: RBS considering reduced bid for ABN without LaSalle - 
bid news and gossip
Citywire
June 27, 2007 Wednesday 6:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 379 words
Body
Royal Bank of Scotland-led consortium could press ahead with its break-up bid for ABN Amro even if it loses a key 
court ruling next month; considering reduced bid that does not include LaSalle.
* Verizon forms alliance with Japan's Softbank * New Court reviewing number of acquisitions; may need to raise 
capital * Arcadis consortium chosen as preferred bidder for 500 million tunnel project * Telspec unit to sell freehold 
property for £1.685 million in cash * Swedish government fears the proposed merger of OMX and Nasdaq could 
undermine the competitiveness of the Nordic market operator by making it too American * Texas Pacific to decide 
today whether to remain in the £8.5 billion takeover battle for Coles of Australia * Trainline agrees £18.7 million offer 
for Advanced Smartcard Technology * Deutsche Bank acquires 3% stake in William Morrison * PacketEchange, the 
website group, considering an IPO that could value it at up to £250 million * Bear Stearns pulls EverQuest flotation 
due to hedge fund woes * Frutarom Industries negotiating to buy Adumim Food Additives * Genesis Worldwide 
plans to raise £9.4 million on AIM admission * Aviva sells 10.4 million shares in Banca Popolare Italiana for 116 
million * QinetiQ unit completes purchase of 3H Technology for up to $52 million * Ryanair's O'Leary on offensive 
as European Union readies to block Aer Lingus merger * Government to auction £225 billion of 2042 gilts on July 3 
* Ramco Energy raises £2.6 million via sale of 25% in Lansdown Oil & Gas * Soccercity raises £30,000 by placing 
three million shares at 1p * Applied Materials to buy Swiss private company HCT Shading Systems for 583 million 
Swiss francs * Bidtimes approves sale of Cradley Heath property for £157,500 to company chairman * Z Group 
knows of no reason for recent fall in share price * Rusina Marine signs option agreement to buy Zambales Chromite 
for $2 million * Invesco raises stake in Macau Property Opportunities to 25.45% * Alfred McAlpine preferred bidder 
on £110 million facilities management contract * Medi Surface to buy Immediacy for £5.6 million; to raise £4.45 
million via placing * TR Property buys office building in Milton Keynes for £6.55 million * Compass Health Group 
raises £525,000 by placing 9.545 million shares at 5.5p
Load-Date: June 30, 2007
End of Document
Ryanair says EU will unfairly block its Aer Lingus bid to please Irish government
Ryanair says EU will unfairly block its Aer Lingus bid to please Irish 
government
Associated Press Financial Wire
June 26, 2007 Tuesday 9:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2007 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 275 words
Dateline: BRUSSELS Belgium
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC, Europe's largest low-cost airline, said Tuesday that it expects the European Commission to 
block its €1.48 billion (US$1.9 billion) hostile takeover bid for fellow Irish airline Aer Lingus PLC.
It claimed the decision to be made before July 4 was politically motivated and was designed to appease the Irish 
government.
Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said he planned to challenge an EU refusal to approve the takeover at the 
EU courts.
A block would be unprecedented, he said, as it was a deal that he claimed would cut air fares and fuel surcharges, 
amounting to €100 million (US$135 million) in savings.
"This is a nakedly political decision ... looking after the narrow vested interests of the Irish government," he told 
reporters in Brussels.
He claimed that a block would make further takeovers between European airlines more difficult, such as a possible 
bid by Air One for Alitalia or a British Airways-led consortium offer for Iberia.
Only Dublin and Aer Lingus had made antitrust complaints about the deal, he said.
Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said in November that he was rigorously opposed to a new airline monopoly that 
could emerge if Ryanair's bid for Aer Lingus succeeded.
The two airlines control over 70 percent of the Irish short-haul market but less than 5 percent of the entire European 
market.
Ryanair says it competes directly against Aer Lingus Group PLC on only 17 out of 500 routes but analysts say that 
number is higher if cities, rather than airports, are used to define routes. Ryanair usually flies to smaller airports 
farther away from the city destination, using a shuttle bus to connect the two.
Ryanair says EU will unfairly block its Aer Lingus bid to please Irish government
Load-Date: June 27, 2007
End of Document
