Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Rating Increased to Buy at ValuEngine
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Rating Increased to Buy at ValuEngine
American Banking and Market News
June 6, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 601 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logoRyanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was upgraded by equities researchers at            
ValuEngine from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report issued on Tuesday. 
A number of other equities research analysts have also issued reports on the company. Zacks Investment 
Research raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a "sell" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $109.00 price target on the 
stock in a research report on Saturday, May 6th. Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Monday, February 13th. Kepler Capital Markets lowered Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Friday, February 10th. Finally, Citigroup 
Inc lowered Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Wednesday, May 
31st. One equities research analyst  has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued  a hold rating and eight 
have issued  a buy rating to the company. Ryanair Holdings plc currently has an average rating of "Buy" and a 
consensus price target of $99.50. 
Analyst Recommendations for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ RYAAY) traded down 0.01% during trading on Tuesday, reaching $108.79. The 
company's stock had a trading volume of 139,356 shares. The stock has a market capitalization of $26.58 billion, a 
PE ratio of 18.71 and a beta of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of $109.09. 
The stock has a 50 day moving average price of $97.74 and a 200 day moving average price of $86.90.   
Several hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. 
First Allied Advisory Services Inc. acquired a new position in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter worth 
approximately $557,000.  Allianz Asset Management AG increased its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 59.9% in 
the fourth quarter. Allianz Asset Management AG now owns 836,774 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $69,670,000 after buying an additional 313,416 shares during the last quarter.  Bayesian Capital 
Management LP acquired a new position in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter worth approximately 
$315,000.  Thompson Siegel & Walmsley LLC increased its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 4.1% in the fourth 
quarter. Thompson Siegel & Walmsley LLC now owns 648,898 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$54,027,000 after buying an additional 25,700 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Thornburg Investment 
Management Inc. increased its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.4% in the fourth quarter. Thornburg 
Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,219,465 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$101,533,000 after buying an additional 17,212 shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge 
funds own  42.80% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Rating Increased to Buy at ValuEngine
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
To view ValuEngine's full report, visit ValuEngine's official website.   
Load-Date: June 20, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Reports 11% Increase in May Traffic
Ryanair Reports 11% Increase in May Traffic
MT Newswires Live Briefs
June 6, 2017 Tuesday 6:05 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 41 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY), a Dublin-based budget carrier, reported Tuesday an 11% increase in passenger traffic 
to 11.8 million customes for May.
The load factor for the month gained 1 percentage point to 95%.
Price: 108.87, Change: , Percent Change: 
Load-Date: June 7, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair May traffic up
Ryanair May traffic up
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
June 6, 2017 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 100 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has announced that its traffic has increased to 11.8 million in May 2017, an increase of 
11%, compared to 10.6 million customers in May 2016.
Body
Ryanair&#39;s Kenny Jacobs said:"Ryanair&#39;s May traffic grew by 11% to 11.8m customers, while our load 
factor jumped 1% point to 95%, on the back of lower fares and the continuing success of our "Always Getting 
Better" customer experience program."Customers can look forward to even lower fares when they make advance 
bookings for summer and winter 2017, so there&#39;s never been a better time to book a low fare flight on Ryanair 
and we urge all customers who wish to book their holidays to do so now on the Ryanair.com website or mobile app, 
where they can avail of the lowest fares in Europe."
Load-Date: June 19, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Fifth Third Bancorp
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Fifth Third Bancorp
Watchlist News
June 5, 2017 Monday 11:06 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 842 words
Byline: Nicole Kennedy
Body
Jun 05, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Fifth Third Bancorp raised its 
position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 26.0% during the first quarter, Holdings Channel[1] reports. 
The firm owned 209,434 shares of the transportation company's stock after buying an additional 43,180 shares 
during the period. Fifth Third Bancorp's holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc were worth $17,379,000 as of its most 
recent SEC filing. 
 Several other large investors have also modified their holdings of the company. Cavalier Investments LLC 
increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.2% in the fourth quarter. Cavalier Investments LLC now 
owns 3,867 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $322,000 after buying an additional 44 shares 
during the period. Financial Counselors Inc. increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.0% in the 
first quarter. Financial Counselors Inc. now owns 4,880 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$405,000 after buying an additional 46 shares during the period. Freestone Capital Holdings LLC increased its 
stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.1% in the fourth quarter. Freestone Capital Holdings LLC now owns 
4,982 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $415,000 after buying an additional 53 shares during the 
period. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 5.3% in the first 
quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. now owns 1,941 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$160,000 after buying an additional 98 shares during the period. Finally, Huntington National Bank increased its 
stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 4.3% in the first quarter. Huntington National Bank now owns 2,722 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $226,000 after buying an additional 111 shares during the 
period. Institutional investors own 42.80% of the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY[2]) traded down 
0.09% during midday trading on Monday, reaching $108.80. The company's stock had a trading volume of 178,782 
shares. The firm has a 50 day moving average price of $97.42 and a 200 day moving average price of $86.66. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $66.09 and a one year high of $109.09. The firm has a market cap of 
$26.59 billion, a P/E ratio of 18.71 and a beta of 0.72.  https://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-
shares-bought-by-fifth-third-bancorp/1336061.html.  A number of equities research analysts recently issued reports 
on the company. Citigroup Inc downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'neutral' rating in a research 
report on Wednesday, May 31st. ValuEngine[3] downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' 
rating in a research report on Wednesday, May 24th. Zacks Investment Research[4] upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc 
from a 'sell' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $109.00 price objective on the stock in a research report on Saturday, 
May 6th. Kepler Capital Markets downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research 
report on Friday, February 10th. Finally, Deutsche Bank AG upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Fifth Third Bancorp
'buy' rating in a research report on Monday, February 13th. One research analyst has rated the stock with a sell 
rating, six have issued a hold rating and seven have given a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings 
plc presently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and a consensus price target of $99.50. About Ryanair Holdings plc 
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are 
holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[5] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings 
plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to 
receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related 
companies 
with 
Analyst 
Ratings 
Network's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[6]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
5]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 6]:            https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-
email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair+Holdings+plc 
Load-Date: June 6, 2017
End of Document
Airline updates and election lead London markets; LONDON REPORT
Airline updates and election lead London markets; LONDON REPORT
City A.M.
June 5, 2017 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 175 words
Body
THIS WEEK the markets will be dominated by Thursdays General Election. While it is widely expected that the 
Conservative party will win with a sound majority, the value of sterling has been sensitive to a couple of recent polls 
that have suggested otherwise.
Today, meanwhile, Hungarian lowcost airline Wizz Air will release a trading update.
Electrical online retailer AO World will put out full-year results tomorrow, though the day will be dominated by a slew 
of trading updates from the airline industry.
Easyjet, British Airways owner IAG and Ryanair will all publish trading updates. IAG has had a turbulent couple of 
weeks following a power shortage that disrupted its flights for several days.
DX Group and St Modwen Properties will also release trading updates on Wednesday, while Auto Trader Group 
and financial derivatives dealer CMC Markets will publish fullyear figures.
Pub owner and brewer Fuller, Smith & Turner will release full-year results on Friday.
FTSE 7,600 7,580 7,547.63 2 Jun 7,560 7,540 7,520 7,500 26 May 30 May 31 May 1 Jun 2 Jun
Load-Date: June 5, 2017
End of Document
Oh really, O'Leary? Ryanair CEO's paper profit from shares rockets
Oh really, O'Leary? Ryanair CEO's paper profit from shares rockets
City A.M.
June 5, 2017 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 105 words
Byline: SHRUTI TRIPATHI CHOPRA
Body
RYANAIR boss Michael O'Leary is sitting on a potential (EURO)50m (£44m) paper profit following the airline's 
shares soaring last week.
In 2014, O'Leary received options on 5m Ryanair shares which can be exercised at (EURO)8.35 a share in 2019 if 
he hits "exceptional performance targets". This means the airline boss can earn over (EURO)41m.
The no-frills airline's shares hit (EURO)18.68 last week following the company reporting a pre-tax profit of almost 
(EURO)1.32bn for last year.
Ryanair's shares closed at (EURO)18.20 last week.
This puts a paper value of O'Leary's share profit at (EURO)91m, (EURO)50m above the exercise price.
Graphic
 
In 2014, Michael O'Leary received options on 5m Ryanair shares
Load-Date: June 5, 2017
Oh really, O'Leary? Ryanair CEO's paper profit from shares rockets
End of Document
Stock Repurchase Plan Initiated by Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Board
Stock Repurchase Plan Initiated by Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Board
American Banking and Market News
June 4, 2017 Sunday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 392 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) declared that its Board of Directors has initiated 
a share buyback plan, which authorizes the company to buyback    shares on Tuesday, May 30th, EventVestor 
reports. This buyback authorization authorizes the transportation company to repurchase up to 2.3% of its shares 
through open market purchases. Shares buyback plans are typically an indication that the company's board 
believes its shares are undervalued.  
A number of brokerages have issued reports on RYAAY. Citigroup Inc cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating 
to a "neutral" rating in a report on Wednesday. ValuEngine cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" 
rating in a report on Wednesday, May 24th.            Zacks Investment Research raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a 
"sell" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Friday, February 10th. Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings plc 
from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Monday, February 13th. Finally, Kepler Capital Markets cut 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Friday, February 10th. One analyst  has 
rated the stock with a sell rating, six have given a hold rating and seven have issued  a buy rating to the company. 
The company presently has an average rating of "Hold" and an average target price of $99.50. 
Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) traded up 0.47% during mid-day trading on Friday, hitting $108.90. The 
stock had a trading volume of 211,625 shares. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of 
$109.09. The stock's 50-day moving average price is $97.42 and its 200 day moving average price is $86.66. The 
company has a market capitalization of $26.87 billion, a P/E ratio of 19.46 and a beta of 0.72.  
About Ryanair Holdings plc
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Load-Date: June 20, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives $99.50 Average Price Target from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives $99.50 Average Price Target from 
Brokerages
Watchlist News
June 3, 2017 Saturday 6:51 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 758 words
Byline: Nicole Kennedy
Body
Jun 03, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) has been given a consensus rating of 'Hold' by the fourteen ratings firms that are covering the 
firm, Marketbeat.com[1] reports. One analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, six have assigned a hold rating 
and seven have assigned a buy rating to the company. The average 12 month price target among brokerages that 
have issued a report on the stock in the last year is $99.50.  A number of equities analysts have recently weighed in 
on the company. 
ValuEngine[2] cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Wednesday, May 24th. 
Citigroup Inc cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'neutral' rating in a report on Wednesday. Kepler 
Capital Markets cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Friday, February 10th. 
Zacks Investment Research[3] upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on 
Friday, February 10th. Finally, Deutsche Bank AG upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' 
rating in a report on Monday, February 13th. Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ RYAAY[4]) traded up 0.47% 
during mid-day trading on Wednesday, hitting $108.90. 211,625 shares of the stock were exchanged. Ryanair 
Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $66.09 and a 12 month high of $109.09. The stock has a market cap of $26.87 
billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 19.46 and a beta of 0.72. The company has a 50-day moving average price of 
$97.42 and a 200-day moving average price of $86.66.   Several large investors have recently modified their 
holdings of RYAAY. Cavalier Investments LLC increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.2% in the 
fourth quarter. Cavalier Investments LLC now owns 3,867 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$322,000 after buying an additional 44 shares during the last quarter. Financial Counselors Inc. increased its stake 
in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.0% in the first quarter. Financial Counselors Inc. now owns 4,880 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $405,000 after buying an additional 46 shares during the last quarter. 
Freestone Capital Holdings LLC increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.1% in the fourth quarter. 
Freestone Capital Holdings LLC now owns 4,982 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $415,000 
after buying an additional 53 shares during the last quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. increased its stake 
in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 5.3% in the first quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. now owns 1,941 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $160,000 after buying an additional 98 shares during the 
last quarter. Finally, Huntington National Bank increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 4.3% in the 
first quarter. Huntington National Bank now owns 2,722 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$226,000 after buying an additional 111 shares during the last quarter. 42.80% of the stock is owned by institutional 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives $99.50 Average Price Target from Brokerages
investors. 
 
https://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-receives-99-50-average-price-target-from-
brokerages/1331164.html. Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a 
holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline 
serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and 
Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air 
passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food and merchandise. Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address 
below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and 
related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter[5]. [ 1]:            
https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 5]:            https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair+Holdings+plc 
Load-Date: June 3, 2017
End of Document
Great West Life Assurance Co. Can Buys Shares of 24,802 Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Great West Life Assurance Co. Can Buys Shares of 24,802 Ryanair Holdings 
plc (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
June 3, 2017 Saturday 10:36 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 800 words
Byline: Kyle Jackson
Body
Jun 03, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Great West Life Assurance 
Co. Can acquired a new stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the first quarter, according to its 
most recent disclosure with the SEC. The fund acquired 24,802 shares of the transportation company's stock, 
valued at approximately $2,057,000.  A number of other large investors have also made changes to their positions 
in the company. 
Cavalier Investments LLC increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.2% in the fourth quarter. 
Cavalier Investments LLC now owns 3,867 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $322,000 after 
buying an additional 44 shares in the last quarter. Freestone Capital Holdings LLC increased its stake in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.1% in the fourth quarter. Freestone Capital Holdings LLC now owns 4,982 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $415,000 after buying an additional 53 shares in the last quarter. 
Huntington National Bank increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 4.3% in the first quarter. 
Huntington National Bank now owns 2,722 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $226,000 after 
buying an additional 111 shares in the last quarter. Castleark Management LLC increased its stake in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc by 18.0% in the fourth quarter. Castleark Management LLC now owns 2,095 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $174,000 after buying an additional 320 shares in the last quarter. Finally, 
Brinker Capital Inc. increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 25.6% in the third quarter. Brinker 
Capital Inc. now owns 3,626 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $272,000 after buying an 
additional 739 shares in the last quarter. 42.80% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional 
investors. Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY[1]) opened at 108.90 on Friday. The firm's 50-day moving average price is 
$97.42 and its 200-day moving average price is $86.66. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $66.09 and a 
12 month high of $109.09. The firm has a market cap of $26.87 billion, a P/E ratio of 19.46 and a beta of 0.72. 
https://www.watchlistnews.com/great-west-life-assurance-co-can-buys-shares-of-24802-ryanair-holdings-plc-
ryaay/1330222.html.  Several brokerages recently issued reports on RYAAY. Citigroup Inc downgraded Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'neutral' rating in a research note on Wednesday. ValuEngine[2] downgraded 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Wednesday, May 24th. Zacks 
Investment Research[3] raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $109.00 price 
objective for the company in a research note on Saturday, May 6th. Kepler Capital Markets downgraded Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Friday, February 10th. Finally, Deutsche Bank 
AG raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research note on Monday, February 13th. 
Great West Life Assurance Co. Can Buys Shares of 24,802 Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
One investment analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, six have given a hold rating and seven have assigned 
a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock currently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and an average price 
target of $99.50. About Ryanair Holdings plc Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for 
Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, 
point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair 
provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, 
including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and 
merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the 
latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair 
Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and 
analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email 
newsletter[5]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 5]:            https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-
email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair+Holdings+plc 
Load-Date: June 3, 2017
End of Document
Wifi on-board gets thumbs down from Ryanair boss
Wifi on-board gets thumbs down from Ryanair boss
Sunday Business Post
June 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 362 words
Byline: Ian Guider
Highlight: O'Leary says service is too costly to provide
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary has ruled out installing wifi on the airline’s fleet, saying the service is too costly to 
provide.
He told analysts on a conference call last week that he didn’t see wifi generating enough revenue from passengers 
to make it a worthwhile investment.
“Our concern with wifi continues to be the technology at the moment,” he said, explaining that the equipment 
required to provide such a service would create a 4 per cent fuel drag. “It is far too expensive a product with, I think, 
almost no revenue . . . upside. On average, flight distance is still only 1 hour 15 minutes and the vast majority of 
people now are getting onboard our aircraft, they already have downloaded Netflix and whatever else it is. They 
don’t need wifi and they’re unlikely to pay the cost of it.
“We would never introduce wifi as some kind of expensive service enhancement. If it isn’t revenue-generating, 
frankly, we wouldn’t be introducing it.”
O’Leary said he doubted if one out of the 120 million passengers the airline carried last year had booked Ryanair 
“on the basis, ‘I wonder if they have wifi’ ”.
Several airlines offer passengers wifi for free but most restrict usage to simple browsing rather than streaming. Most 
major long-haul carriers, including Aer Lingus, charge passengers for internet access.
O’Leary also told the conference call Ryanair was in talks with Aer Lingus and the fast-growing Norwegian Airlines 
about selling their long-haul routes on its website. Earlier this month it sealed its first such deal, for Spanish carrier 
Air Europa.
Wifi on-board gets thumbs down from Ryanair boss
“The difficulty we’re having in cementing the other agreements is that getting the computer systems to speak to 
each other is somewhat complicated. And Aer Lingus and Norwegian and some of the others don’t move at the 
speed we do,” he said.
Ryanair last week announced that its profits to the end of March had risen 6 per cent to €1.3 billion on the back of a 
13 per cent rise in the number of passengers carried, to 120 million. It is forecasting profits in the current financial 
year of up to €1.45 billion. It is also planning to buy back €600 million of its outstanding shares to return surplus 
cash to investors.
Load-Date: June 4, 2017
End of Document
Breaking the cycle
Breaking the cycle
Sunday Business Post
June 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 923 words
Byline: Catherine Healy
Highlight: With new road legislation in the offing, Catherine Healy clears a path through the red mist to offer her 
view on the ongoing cars v bikes battle 
Body
Michael O’Leary pulled no punches in an interview published in this paper last Sunday. “We are just fucking up this 
city,” fumed the Ryanair chief executive. “Headbangers in Dublin fucking Corporation” should focus on sensible 
solutions to traffic congestion, he said, rather than worrying about “fucking cyclists” (“I’d shoot them all”).
It’s not the first time O’Leary has lashed out at his two-wheeled foes. For a timeline, simply Google his name and 
“cyclists”:
•
Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary blasted after anti-cyclist rant (October 2016)
•
Michael O’Leary: Dublin is run by ‘dim and pretty stupid’ cyclists (June 2016)
•
Ryanair’s Michael O’Leary says cyclists should be ‘shot’ (May 2016)
It bears repeating: like Donald Trump, O’Leary is a master of whipping up outrage for free publicity. It’s a reciprocal 
relationship: O’Leary provides easy soundbites, and in exchange he gets time to promote his business. That’s the 
tacit rule.
Poor old cyclists have always been fair game, of course, for indignant drivers. It can be difficult to resist a swipe at 
the helmeted Lycra people zooming through traffic when you’re stuck in a car at rush hour, and I’m sure I’m not the 
only person who’s nearly been mowed down by a Dublin Bikes warrior swerving onto the footpath for that last 
stretch to the docking station.
But whatever about minor annoyances, the level of outright hysteria with which cyclist-friendly initiatives are so 
often greeted never fails to perplex. Let’s take, for example, the lower speed limits recently introduced for residential 
parts of Dublin – on the back of campaigning by the parents of Jake Brennan, the six-year-old who was knocked 
down and killed while playing in his estate in 2014.
Breaking the cycle
If you looked only at online reaction, you might think these new 30km/h zones are the result of some kind of 
underground cyclist conspiracy. The powers that be, one reader commented under an article on TheJournal.ie, 
“don’t want cars in [the] city. There is some utopia plan that [it] will be pedestrians and cyclists only with the 
occasional sprinkling of public transport.” Another common argument goes something along the lines of: “We’ll have 
cyclists overtaking us at this stage!!!” It’s driver versus non-driver in this battle and only one can win, cry the likes of 
O’Leary.
A worrying number of drivers seem to have a ‘no contact, no harm’ attitude
Why the raging fury, then, at others taking up space on public roads? You can understand why drivers might feel it 
only natural to reign over the pedalling mortals. Most towns and cities are designed and managed not with cyclists 
in mind: few have cycle paths and those that are in place all too often disappear into bus lanes. If you want a real 
taster of the hostile showdown between cyclists and drivers, just brave Ormond Quay in Dublin at 9am on a week 
day. Hundreds of cyclists have no option here but to squeeze through rows of cars and buses, counting only on the 
hope that they won’t be tipped over by a sudden lurch in the flow of traffic, and no surprise: there’s plenty of 
beeping.
Cyclist-hating car owners are like manspreaders on public transport: usually entitled, obnoxious and oblivious to the 
hardship they’re causing others. “I have an inalienable right to this space,” think the manspreaders and angry 
drivers. Machinery, as Martin Heidegger once put it, “unfolds a specific character of domination . . . a unique kind of 
consciousness of conquest”, and the same could be said for even the most innocent looking Ford or Volvo. Cars 
are bigger, stronger, faster than you, puny cyclist. This is the survival of the fittest, so get off our road.
But something more serious than pride is at stake here. Anyone who cycles will know that shudder-down-the-spine 
feeling when news emerges of another fatal bike accident, not least when there are two in the space of a week. The 
latest casualty was an American tourist who collided with a vehicle in the Gap of Dunloe on Tuesday, the same day 
a man died after being knocked off his bike in Mayo last Sunday. We don’t know the precise circumstances 
involved, but these deaths are reminders – as if any more reminders were needed – of just how vulnerable cyclists 
still are. So far this year, nine cyclists have been killed on Irish roads, compared to ten for all of 2016.
Some progress has been made. For one thing, legislation banning drivers from overtaking cyclists too closely is 
expected to be passed before the Dáil breaks for summer recess. As TD Ciarán Cannon, who published the bill, put 
it: “A worrying number of drivers seem to have a ‘no contact, no harm’ attitude.”
But there’s still considerable opposition to diverting cars away from heavily congested areas such as the north 
quays in Dublin city centre, and pedestrianising College Green, for instance.
We all understand the frustration some cyclists can cause – especially when they’re inexperienced – but the bigger 
issue here is the need for better public transport and road management systems. The reality that must be faced, 
after all, is that, despite all the challenges, cycling is booming. Council figures show a record number of people 
cycled into Dublin city in 2016, with more than 12,000 commuting by bike on an average morning. Cycle advocates 
are gaining ground, with groups such as the Dublin Cycling Campaign putting forward compelling policy solutions 
as well as critical voices.
What cyclists lack in strength they make up for now in critical mass. So honk away, drivers, but they’re not going 
anywhere. As Dave Bautista would say: deal with it. ■
Load-Date: June 4, 2017
End of Document
Cost-cutter's comedown at lumbering legacy carrier Corporate person in the news: Alex Cruz, Chief executive, 
British Airways
Cost-cutter's comedown at lumbering legacy carrier; Corporate person in 
the news: Alex Cruz, Chief executive, British Airways
Financial Times (London, England)
June 3, 2017 Saturday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES - WEEK IN REVIEW; Pg. 9
Length: 587 words
Byline: Tanya Powley
Body
Not many airline chiefs can boast they have an aircraft named after them. But British Airways boss Alex Cruz, the 
person at the centre of the airline's computer system crash , can.
Mr Cruz's team, when he was in charge of Vueling, the Spanish low-cost carrier, surprised him by putting his name 
on an Airbus A320.
As 50th birthday presents go, it was impressive, and showed he was well liked at a company he headed for seven 
years before he was named chief executive at BA in 2015.
"He is a really nice guy," one aviation analyst says. "He is very approachable and not flashy at all."
Another analyst agrees, noting that Mr Cruz was an "empowering" manager at Vueling, adept at being in front of 
audiences.
But the latter comment may strike some as odd after this week's public relations confusion at BA. More than 75,000 
passengers were stranded on Saturday, and tens of thousands more were hit by flight delays, after a power outage 
grounded all flights at the start of one of the busiest weekends for Britain's flag carrier.
Cost-cutter's comedown at lumbering legacy carrier Corporate person in the news: Alex Cruz, Chief executive, 
British Airways
A bad situation was made worse by Mr Cruz' response. In the first two days, rather than apologising to passengers 
directly at Heathrow, he appeared in videos wearing a high-visibility jacket, surrounded by a room full of computers.
Some in the industry expressed surprise at Mr Cruz's handling of the situation , saying he was not normally a man 
to hide out of sight.
John Strickland, an aviation consultant in London, says: "Alex proved himself at Vueling. I think he's very tech-
savvy. But he's got a challenge in coming from a much smaller-scale airline to the monolith that is BA."
Originally from Bilbao, Mr Cruz graduated as an industrial engineer from Central Michigan University, in the US.
In 2006, the Basque father of four founded Clickair, the Spanish airline, which merged with Vueling three years later 
when he became chief executive. Vueling was acquired by International Airlines Group in 2013, and the fast-
growing carrier became one of the biggest contributors to the group's profits in the following two years.
At the time of Vueling's purchase by IAG, Mr Cruz was riding high on his successes at the Spanish carrier and was 
viewed as one of the airline industry's rising talents. He presided over Vueling's expansion from an airline operating 
a fleet of almost 40 aircraft in 2010 to one with more than 100 today.
The expansion of the low-cost carrier has been widely admired, with growth averaging about 20 per cent a year 
until recently.
Mr Cruz was also a pioneer of a more upmarket low-cost offering, which easyJet and Ryanair have moved towards.
One City analyst says: "He comes from a low-cost background, but Alex does care about the product. His strategy 
at Vueling was about building a premium low-cost carrier with a business class in the front but still low unit costs."
Some aviation commentators think Mr Cruz is feeling the pressure of running a very different type of airline.
An industry commentator says: "He is very self-confident. I think he thought he was going to shock the airline into 
doing things they would never have done before, and he has. But he has fuelled the feeling that it's all about cost 
and they are going to keep cutting the benefits and service and that flyers will put up with it."
After this week, Mr Cruz could not be blamed for looking back at his days at Vueling with fondness. After having the 
finger of blame pointed at him for last weekend's disaster, it is likely to be a long while, if ever, before he has a BA 
plane named after him. Tanya Powley
Load-Date: June 2, 2017
End of Document
Meade living the Derby dream with Eminent; INTERVIEW Geoff Lester caught up with trainer Martyn Meade 
ahead of this afternoon's big race
Meade living the Derby dream with Eminent; INTERVIEW Geoff Lester caught 
up with trainer Martyn Meade ahead of this afternoon's big race
City A.M.
June 3, 2017 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 8
Length: 1023 words
Body
MOST racehorse trainers will tell you that trying to make a profit in their profession is like pushing an elephant up 
the stairs. But four years ago Martyn Meade turned his back on the City in an attempt to take on the big beasts of 
Coolmore and Godolphin.
Meade, who trains the talented Eminent, third-favourite for today's Investec Derby at Epsom, explained: "Racing 
has always been a passion of mine, and when it became economically viable to move up to Newmarket and dip our 
toes into deeper waters we decided to give it a go, with the emphasis very much on quality rather than quantity."
The 69-year-old chairman of London-based investment firm Hadleigh PVT, which deals in potential market leaders 
across the manufacturing and industrial sectors, has been here before.
He first dabbled with training on a much smaller scale in the 1970's and, during the two decades that followed, went 
on to enjoy limited success with jumpers from his base in Wiltshire.
Sadly, the numbers didn't add up. Realising that he was going to end up old and poor, Meade decided it was best to 
return to the City. "I couldn't do anything about the former, but I didn't fancy the latter," he says, looking back 
stoically.
The bug had bitten hard, however, and even when he was back in London he always picked up the Racing Post 
each morning before any other paper.
When his partners at Hadleigh were more than capable of keeping the ship afloat, he handed over command in 
2013 and re-took the reins in racing.
Meade living the Derby dream with Eminent; INTERVIEW Geoff Lester caught up with trainer Martyn Meade 
ahead of this afternoon's big race
"We set our hearts on Newmarket as they have the best facilities in the world, and when Sefton Lodge came on the 
market we knew we had to have it," declared Meade, whose predecessors at this historic 50-box yard include the 
Joel family, Charles St George and Tony Ryan, founder of Ryanair.
Meade, who is also heavily involved in the prestigious Snailwell Stud in the town, said: "Sefton Lodge had not been 
used for 10 years so needed plenty of renovation, but we worked hard to bring it back up to scratch. It is in the most 
wonderful position in that we have direct access to the Long Hill and Warren Hill canters and are only a stone's 
throw from the Limekilns, where you'll find the best chalk-based gallop on the globe."
It was now a case of finding the right ammunition. Irish Rookie, one of his first purchases, cost only (EURO)16,000 
and came so close to giving the trainer the perfect start, beating all except subsequent Royal Ascot winner Ervedya 
in the French 1000 Guineas at Longchamp in 2015.
Meade knows that teamwork is everything in whatever business you are in. While he is the one flying the plane, he 
has his son Freddie in the cockpit with him as assistant, as well as the support of some of the best brains in the 
bloodstock world.
Together they have set the coordinates for Epsom today, where Eminent is on the verge of a victory scarcely seen 
since David v Goliath took centre stage.
Observing that the most recent Magnificent Seven on the Derby roll of honour are Aidan O'Brien (three), Andre 
Fabre, John Gosden, Sir Michael Stoute, Jim Bolger, John Oxx and Dermot Weld, he concedes that he sometimes 
has to pinch himself to make sure that he is not in La La Land.
So how come a relative newcomer like Meade, rather than those celebrated trainers ended up with Eminent, who 
not only has top-class form but also a pedigree to match, being one of the first crop of the mighty Frankel? Meade 
digests the question for a few seconds, having no doubt asked himself the same thing many times, before revealing 
the story behind what is the best business deal that even he has made.
He recalled: "We looked at virtually every horse at the Tattersalls Sales and I remember walking past this Frankel 
and thinking to myself 'he'll be out of our league as he'll make between 300-400,000gns.' "However, I kept an eye 
on the board and noticed that he was not selling and, together with bloodstock agent Hubie de Burgh, we agreed 
that he was the most gorgeous individual and that we had to get him, which happily we did at 150,000gns.
"I was buying on spec, but Hubie immediately got in touch with Sir Peter Vela, who is a leading ownerbreeder in 
New Zealand and he quickly agreed to come on board.
"We didn't want an owner who would sell on as soon as he won a maiden, but, like us, Sir Peter is in it for the long 
haul, and I'm delighted he bought the colt. He is coming over for the big day - you couldn't keep him away."
Eminent won his only race as a two-year-old at Newmarket and he thrived through the winter, returning to the 
Rowley Mile to win the Craven Stakes and set a course record in April. "He was immature mentally but physically 
he was ready to go," said Meade, "though we didn't expect him to win so well."
That prompted the trainer to take the traditional route and run in the 2000 Guineas, but things did not go according 
to plan.
He explained: "We thought that the Craven had taken nothing out of him, but in reality, no horse wins a Pattern race 
without having a proper test. The ground was plenty quick enough, and in a race which ultimately developed into a 
sprint, Eminent could not use his amazing long stride.
"However, Jim Crowley looked after him when he realised they would not win, and one thing we learned in the 
Guineas is that he needed to go up in trip. Since then the Investec Derby has been the one thing on our minds.
Meade living the Derby dream with Eminent; INTERVIEW Geoff Lester caught up with trainer Martyn Meade 
ahead of this afternoon's big race
"We took him to Epsom recently for the Breakfast with the Stars morning, and he coped with Tattenham Corner and 
the downhill run very well. Even though we were not pressing any buttons, time students told us that we clocked 
more than 40mph for the last three furlongs.
"Eminent's temperament leads us to think he won't be bothered by all the hullaballoo on the day, and if he gets into 
a rhythm and uses that stride of his, he has that potent finishing kick which might just prove decisive."
Today is a huge day for Meade and his team but he knows you need to plan for the future in this game: "Maybe if 
Eminent does happen to win I can persuade Bernard Kantor [Investec MD] to send me a couple of horses while we 
are on the podium!"
We agreed that he was the most gorgeous individual and that we had to get him
Graphic
 
Martyn Meade pictured with his Investec Derby hope Eminent
Load-Date: June 3, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Rating Lowered to Neutral at Citigroup Inc
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Rating Lowered to Neutral at Citigroup Inc
Watchlist News
June 2, 2017 Friday 9:46 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 657 words
Byline: Lindsey Winhoffer
Body
Jun 02, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by investment analysts at Citigroup Inc from a 'buy' rating to a 'neutral' rating 
in a research note issued on Wednesday. A number of other analysts also recently issued reports on the company. 
ValuEngine[1] downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on 
Wednesday, May 24th. 
Zacks Investment Research[2] raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $109.00 
price objective for the company in a research report on Saturday, May 6th. Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research report on Monday, February 13th. Finally, Kepler 
Capital Markets downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on 
Friday, February 10th. One investment analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, six have given a hold rating 
and seven have issued a buy rating to the stock. The stock currently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and a 
consensus price target of $99.50.Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY[3]) opened at 108.39 on Wednesday. 
The firm's 50-day moving average is $96.74 and its 200-day moving average is $86.46. The company has a market 
capitalization of $26.74 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 19.37 and a beta of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-
year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of $108.47.   https://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-rating-
lowered-to-neutral-at-citigroup-inc/1326927.html.  A number of institutional investors have recently made changes 
to their positions in RYAAY. State Street Corp boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 35.0% in the 
fourth quarter. State Street Corp now owns 324,522 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$27,016,000 after buying an additional 84,140 shares during the period. Syntal Capital Partners LLC purchased a 
new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter worth approximately $565,000. 
Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft FI purchased a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth 
quarter worth approximately $212,000. Cavalier Investments LLC boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings 
plc by 1.2% in the fourth quarter. Cavalier Investments LLC now owns 3,867 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $322,000 after buying an additional 44 shares during the period. Finally, Institutional Capital LLC 
purchased a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter worth approximately 
$12,627,000. Institutional investors own 42.80% of the company's stock.  Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Rating Lowered to Neutral at Citigroup Inc
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.Receive News ...tings for Ryanair 
Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and 
analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email 
newsletter[4]. [ 1]:            http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY [ 
2]:            http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 3]:            
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 4]:            https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair+Holdings+plc 
Load-Date: June 2, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Earns Daily Coverage Optimism Score of 0.05
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Earns Daily Coverage Optimism Score of 0.05
American Banking and Market News
June 1, 2017 Thursday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 458 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Headlines about Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have been trending somewhat 
positive this week, according to Alpha One Sentiment Analysis. The research group, a unit of Accern, identifies 
negative and positive news coverage by analyzing more than 20 million news and blog sources in real time. Alpha 
One ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of negative one to positive one, with scores closest to 
one being the most favorable. Ryanair Holdings plc earned a media sentiment score of 0.05 on Alpha One's scale. 
Alpha One also gave media coverage about the transportation company an impact score of 66 out of 100, indicating 
that recent news coverage is likely to have an impact on the company's share price in the next several days.  
A number of research firms recently commented on RYAAY. Bank of America Corp cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a 
"neutral" rating to an "underperform" rating in a research note on Tuesday, January 3rd. Zacks Investment 
Research cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a "strong-buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Friday, 
January 6th. Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note 
on Monday, February 13th. Canaccord Genuity began coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on 
Thursday, January 26th. They issued a "buy" rating on the stock. Finally, Barclays PLC  reissued a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on Tuesday, January 10th. Two research analysts have rated the 
stock with a sell rating, four have given a hold rating and six have issued  a buy rating to the company. The 
company currently has an average rating of "Hold" and an average price target of $93.00. 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY ) traded down 0.59% during mid-day trading on Tuesday, reaching $91.02. 
173,068 shares of the company's stock traded hands. The firm has a market cap of $22.46 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of 16.72 and a beta of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $66.09 and a one year high 
of $93.53. The firm's 50-day moving average price is $84.22 and its 200 day moving average price is $81.62.   
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Load-Date: June 21, 2017
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Earns Daily Coverage Optimism Score of 0.05
End of Document
Riding on the wings of change
Riding on the wings of change
Sunday Business Post
June 1, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 923 words
Byline: Quinton O'Reilly
Highlight: Four years ago, Ryanair decided to discard its old image and focus on customer satisfaction. Fast 
forward to today and it has one of the most popular and resilient airline sites in the world, writes Quinton O’Reilly 
Body
As far as changing an image is concerned, Ryanair is probably one of the most high-profile examples out there. 
While it prided itself on its low fares, there were other less positive parts of the experience, such as a hardline 
stance on cabin baggage allowance, penalties for not printing out boarding passes, and a hard-to-navigate website, 
among other things.
In 2014, it decided to make a change by launching the Always Getting Better programme, designed to improve the 
customer experience. Fast forward to today and the redesigned site now gets 600 million visits per year, while it has 
20 million users on its iOS and Android app.
Part of that success was a rethink of how its digital services work and for its chief technical officer, John Hurley, the 
company continues to go from strength to strength; it recently opened its third Ryanair Labs in Madrid (the other two 
are in Dublin and Wroclaw in Poland).
“I can’t emphasise how big it was. It was a huge challenge coming from [four years ago], said Hurley. “I don’t want 
to say ground zero, but we weren’t far off it, now what we have is a website that is probably industry leading in that 
space and is probably the best airline website in Europe.
“It was huge. We had to set up teams from scratch, build everything in-house, we had 200 odd developers [and] it 
was a continuous development model . . . It was launched in November of 2015 and we changed every line of code 
of the entire website from that.
“We were lucky in a sense in that we were a bit late to the game in taking advantage of being second mover or third 
mover in technologies .
Riding on the wings of change
“We had huge advantages in speed, reliability and working across all devices. Our web and mobile footprint was 
spot on from day one because we bypassed all of those problems . . . we’re continuously looking to evolve by 
looking for the best way to do things.”
Part of its new digital operations is the ability to take on any problems that may arise. On the most basic side of 
things, it has placed particular emphasis on resilience and protocol if something goes wrong.
“Our website is served up in three different data centres across Europe: Dublin, London and Frankfurt,” he said.
“We have very good resiliency there so if, God forbid, one server goes down, we can run it on the other two. We 
can run the site on one and a half servers if we have to, so we’ve good measures in place.
“One half we need for peak. Peak only happens in evenings due to regular working days . . . [but] it’s very much 
reliability and redundancy at the forefront. It simply can’t go down.”
When Ryanair was designing the site, one of the biggest challenges it would have to deal with was performance 
testing. It wouldn’t be just a case of launching the new site and leaving it as was, there were numerous things that 
the developers wouldn’t necessarily foresee.
Therefore observing how people use the site is vital, not just for its launch, but even to this day, especially since the 
aim was to make the site and experience as easy and as seamless as possible.
“You can do all the testing in the world, but you can’t beat users on a system doing all of the crazy stuff that you 
couldn’t possibly find with A/B testing,” said Hurley.
“Customer data started coming to us with booking models that were working correctly, secure and protecting other 
parts . . . That was a big challenge for us because it’s crazy to design nice pretty pictures and say ‘Move this from 
17 clicks down to three clicks.’ Those 17 clicks evolved over the years for various reasons and to take them all out 
of the system while maintaining the integrity of it and still have a system that works was challenging.”
That level of analysis works on a number of ways. As well as a team working 24/7 every day, every single action or 
error on the site can be compared. The IT team normally compare similar days like Mondays to Mondays instead of 
two days in a row as the needs and customer interaction differs.
Automation, redundancy measures, cloud bursting for when demand is greater than expected, as well as the ability 
to quickly toggle parts of the site, means it would take a significant number of problems for the site to go down.
“It’s fully monitored and automated . . . our developers are in a DevOps model so developers are accountable for 
code that goes into production so if you release something in the morning, you are on call to make sure it’s working 
on it and it’s performing,” said Hurley.
“We’ve an automated rollback system where key features are toggleable so if there was a problem with Rooms, we 
can apply a piece of code there and then to save Rooms and the booking flow so all the nice parts, even if 
MyRyanair had a problem with them, we can temporarily disable them to keep the site running.
“We have micro servers and other IT measures in place, building that in and testing it going forward . . . it is quite 
challenging as the site is never down, it’s always taking bookings.”
For now, the focus is to continue improving the experience through small and incremental changes. As well as the 
introduction of Ryanair credits, a new version of Rooms, and talks with airlines about connecting more flights, it’s all 
systems go. The company’s main aim remains the same though.
“We believe in two types of travellers: the one that books their hotel first and then goes to the flight, and then the 
other type of person who books their flight first and then plans their holidays around it,” said Hurley. “We want to be 
the destination of choice for anyone who takes the flights first.”
Riding on the wings of change
Load-Date: June 4, 2017
End of Document
2017 Paris air show announcements: 20 June
2017 Paris air show announcements: 20 June
AirFinance Journal
June 2017
Copyright 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1149 words
Byline: Olivier Bonnassies
Body
The second day of the Paris air show attracted more order announcements than the first.
The Max family aircraft dominated the headlines once again with 196 firm orders placed and commitments for 
another 125 units. Avolon committed for a total of 125 aircraft, saying the order represents its single largest order 
placed with Boeing to date.
Airbus recorded 10 firm orders and 95 commitments.
Lessors placed firm orders for 70 new aircraft, while airlines orders totalled 49. In addition, United Airlines 
announced the conversion of 100 Max orders into the Max 10 model.
Leasing companies committed for another 170 aircraft under letters of intent, memorandums of understanding and 
commitments. Airline commitments totalled 109 aircraft.
Embraer announced a series of E1 orders before disclosing 40 E2 orders and commitments from two undisclosed 
customers. AirFinance Journal understands potential customers for the E2 includes Air Astana and Arkia.
Aircraft orders/agreements
Aviation Capital Group announced an order for 20 Boeing 737 Max 10s. ACG is already part of the 737 Max family 
with 60 current orders, including a mix of Max 8s and Max 9s.
Okay Airways announced an order for seven Max 8s and eight Max 10s. The Chinese carrier also signed a 
memorandum of understanding for five 787-9s.
Avolon signed a memorandum of understanding for 125 737 Max 8s. The agreement includes 75 Max 8s as well as 
purchase rights for an additional 50 737 Max 8s.
SpiceJet signed a letter of intent for 50 Bombardier Q400s. The agreement includes 25 firm orders and 25 purchase 
rights.
Blue Air announced an order for six Max aircraft.
2017 Paris air show announcements: 20 June
Ryanair finalised an order for 10 additional 737 Max 200s, five of which will deliver in the first half of 2019, with the 
second 5 delivering in the first half of 2020. The Irish-based low cost carrier has an existing firm order for 100 737 
Max 200s, with a further 100 options remaining.
Azerbaijan Airlines announced a commitment for four 787-8s.
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines ordered two additional Embraer 190s.
CDB Aviation Lease Finance signed a memorandum of understanding for 45 aircraft, consisting of 30 A320neos 
and 15 A321neos. In addition, 15 A320neo positions from CDB Aviation’s previous order will be converted to 
A321neo aircraft.
Japan Airlines signed a firm order for an additional E190 with Embraer for subsidiary J-AIR. J-AIR currently 
operates seven E190s and 17 E170s – 24 E-Jets in total, with an additional eight E-Jets on backlog.
Viva Air signed a memorandum of understanding with Airbus for 50 A320 family aircraft. The transaction includes 
15 A321 and 35 A320neo aircraft.
Belaviaordered one E175 and one E195 - both for delivery in 2018. The aircraft will join the four Embraer two E195s 
and two E175s operated by Belavia.
Fuji Dream Airlines signed a firm order of three E175s, with purchase rights for an additional three aircraft of the 
type. FDA currently operates three E170s and eight E175s. In addition, FDA has also extended the agreement for 
Embraer’s Flight Hour Programme (Pool) for up to eight years.
China Aircraft Leasing Group (CALC) announced an order for 50 737 Max aircraft, including 15 Max 10s. The 
aircraft will be delivered “in stages” up until 2023.
United Airlines announced an agreement to convert 100 of its current 737 Max orders into 737 Max 10s, becoming 
the largest single 737 Max 10 customer in the world. United also announced an order for four additional 777-300ER 
aircraft.
Delta Air Lines placed an order for 10 Airbus A321s after announcing orders for 30 incremental A321s in May.
Embraer announced a 10 E195-E2s firm order, with an additional 10 purchase rights for the E190-E2 from an 
undisclosed customer.
Embraer signed a commitment with an undisclosed customer to purchase 20 E190-E2s.
Japan Investment Adviser (JIA) announced a commitment to purchase 10 Max 8 aircraft. JIA Group activities 
include operating a lease business that manages a fleet of around 60 aircraft through its operating lease arm, JP 
Lease Products & Services.
Ethiopian Airlines placed an order for 10 additional Airbus A350-900 aircraft. The African carrier operates a fleet of 
four A350s, two of which are on lease, from the 12 aircraft it current has on order.
Air Senegal signed a contract for a firm order of two ATR72-600s with ATR. Delivery of these aircraft, which will 
constitute the initial fleet of the airline, are scheduled for November 2017.
Bombardier unveiled Ethiopian Airlines as the customer for five additional Q400s. Bombardier announced the order 
on 9 June with an undisclosed customer.
Ethiopian Airlines announced a commitment agreement for two 777 freighters with Boeing.
Engine orders/agreements
2017 Paris air show announcements: 20 June
China Southern Airlines has placed an order for CFM International LEAP-1A engines to power 50 new Airbus 
A320neo aircraft. The aircraft order was announced in 2014.
Aviation Capital Group announced an order with CFM International for LEAP-1B engines to power 20 new Boeing 
737 Max 10s.
Royal Air Maroc selected General Electric for a five-year, TrueChoice Overhaul agreement for the maintenance, 
repair and overhaul of the CF34-10E engines powering its four Embraer 190 aircraft.
ALC selected CFM International’s LEAP-1A engine to power 25 additional Airbus A320neo family aircraft. The 
engines are for option aircraft previously announced and are scheduled for delivery between 2019 and 2022.
China Eastern Airlines placed an order for CFM International LEAP-1A engines to power 70 new Airbus A320neo 
aircraft. The order includes a long-term support agreement, and the airline is scheduled to begin taking delivery in 
2018. The aircraft order was announced February 2014.
Atlas Air signed a three-year TrueChoiceTM Transitions agreement with GE Aviation for the time and material to 
repair and overhaul 41 CF6-80C2 engines that power its fleet of Boeing 767-300F aircraft.
China Southern reached a 15-year TrueChoiceTM Flight Hour agreement with GE Aviation for the maintenance, 
repair and overhaul of its GE90 fleet, including GE90-110B engines powering its 12 Boeing 777 freighter aircraft 
and GE90-115B engines powering its 10 Boeing 777-300ER aircraft.
Ethiopian Airlines placed an order with Rolls-Royce for Trent XWB engines to power 10 new Airbus A350-900 
aircraft with TotalCare&reg; service support. In addition, the order includes TotalCare for 14 aircraft already in 
service or on order. Ethiopian became Africa’s first A350 operator in 2015 and currently has four of its initial 14 
aircraft in service.
HNA's subsidiaries Hainan Airlines and HNA Technic reached a 30-year GE branded service agreement for GEnx 
and CF34 engines with GE Aviation. The deal enables Hainan Airlines and HNA Technic to serve as an authorized 
service provider for GEnx-1B and CF34-10 engines and perform OEM maintenance, overhaul workscoping and 
component repairs as well as provide comprehensive materials support.
Load-Date: July 10, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Receives Consensus Recommendation of "Hold" from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives Consensus Recommendation of 
"Hold" from Analysts
American Banking and Market News
May 31, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 479 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have received a consensus 
recommendation of "Hold" from the thirteen ratings firms that are presently  covering the stock,            
MarketBeat.com  reports. One research analyst  has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have assigned  a hold 
rating and seven have given a buy rating to  the company. The average 1 year target price among brokerages that 
have issued a report on the stock in the last year is $99.50.  
Several analysts have recently issued reports on the company. ValuEngine  lowered Ryanair Holdings plc from a 
"buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Wednesday, May 24th. Kepler Capital Markets lowered Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Friday, February 10th.            Zacks Investment 
Research  raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a "sell" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Friday, February 10th. 
Finally, Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Monday, 
February 13th. 
WARNING: "[[title]]" was first  reported by [[site]] and is owned by of [[site]]. If you are accessing this report on 
another site, it was illegally stolen and reposted in violation of United States and international copyright and 
trademark legislation. The legal version of this report can be viewed at [[permalink]].  
A number of hedge funds have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. Quantbot Technologies LP 
acquired a new stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the first quarter valued at $106,000.  Tyers Asset 
Management LLC acquired a new stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter valued at $133,000.  FNY 
Partners Fund LP acquired a new stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the first quarter valued at $156,000.  PNC 
Financial Services Group Inc. raised its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 5.3% in the first quarter. PNC Financial 
Services Group Inc. now owns 1,941 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $160,000 after buying 
an additional 98 shares during the period.  Finally, Flinton Capital Management LLC acquired a new stake in  
Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter valued at $161,000. 42.80% of the stock is currently owned by 
institutional investors and hedge funds.  
About Ryanair Holdings plc
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Receives Consensus Recommendation of "Hold" from Analysts
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Load-Date: June 21, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair looks to cut fares and expand after record profit
Ryanair looks to cut fares and expand after record profit
Business World (Digest)
May 31, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 566 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair announced a record annual profit on Tuesday in a vindication of its strategy of cutting fares to boost market 
share, and said it would turn up the heat further on rivals.
Its warning to competitors came as one of them, British Airways, was counting the cost of a huge IT failure that left 
75,000 passengers stranded over a holiday weekend.
Ryanair, Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers, has helped drive down short-haul ticket prices in Europe 
by increasing its capacity by 33%, or about 30 million seats, in the past two years.
Its cost base, widely acknowledged as the lowest of Europe's major carriers thanks to low plane purchase, 
maintenance and staff costs, has allowed it to undercut rivals while still making a profit.
The Irish airline made a profit after tax of 1.3 billion euros in the year to the end of March, in line with analyst 
forecasts, even as it slashed ticket prices to fill almost 14 million seats added during the period.
"I take comfort from the fact that we can increase profit in a year where fares fall by 13%," Chief Executive Michael 
O'Leary told analysts.
"We have seen profitability double ... over a three year period and frankly I see no reason why that trend won't 
continue."
At 1400 GMT, Ryanair shares were up 2.5% at 18.185 euros.
Ryanair looks to cut fares and expand after record profit
In the coming year, Ryanair is set to slow the pace of capacity growth to around 8%, or 10 million seats, and 
expects ticket prices to fall by 5-7%.
That will see its average fares fall by around 5 percent over the key summer months, likely putting pressure on 
rivals.
"I see a lot of airlines talking up the first half of the year and talking up (revenue per passenger) yield performance. I 
think that is a little overdone," O'Leary said.
British Airways owner IAG had said before its disastrous IT failure that it expected quarterly revenue per passenger 
mile flown to rise year-on-year for the first time since 2014 in April to June.
Air France and Lufthansa have also said pricing and bookings are improving.
O'Leary was upbeat about priority markets including Italy, where Ryanair expects Alitalia to cut its short-haul 
operations as part of restructuring, and Germany, where he said any acquisition of Air Berlin could open up airport 
slots.
Ryanair would be happy to sacrifice short term profitability to dislodge incumbents and open new markets, he 
added.
Ryanair is in talks with Boeing about buying up to five extra planes and extending the leases on 10 more over the 
next two years. In recent weeks, it has suggested it could source additional planes if AlItalia or Air Berlin were to 
free up capacity.
It has also spoken to around 200 airports about moving capacity from Britain in the event of a "hard Brexit," where 
Britain would leave the EU's single market, O'Leary said.
In a sign of Ryanair's financial confidence, it announced a 600 million euro share buyback to start immediately.
However, O'Leary warned there were clouds on the horizon, including Brexit, which he has said could lead to a total 
breakdown in all flights between Britain and the EU for a time.
Brexit could also force some British investors in Ryanair to sell their stakes as EU airlines must be majority owned 
by EU nationals.
The impact on bookings of the recent suicide bombing in Manchester in which 22 people died was likely to be short-
lived, but a further attack could knock bookings off course, he said. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: June 14, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded by Citigroup Inc
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded by Citigroup Inc
American Banking and Market News
May 31, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 537 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by stock analysts at 
Citigroup Inc from a "buy" rating to a "neutral" rating in a note issued to investors on Wednesday. 
Several other research analysts also recently commented on RYAAY. ValuEngine  downgraded Ryanair Holdings 
plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Wednesday, May 24th. Kepler Capital Markets 
downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Friday, February 10th.       
     Zacks Investment Research  upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a "sell" rating to a "hold" rating in a research 
note on Friday, February 10th. Finally, Deutsche Bank AG upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a "hold" rating to a 
"buy" rating in a research note on Monday, February 13th. One investment analyst  has rated the stock with a sell 
rating, six have issued  a hold rating and seven have assigned  a buy rating to the company. The company 
presently has an average rating of "Hold" and an average target price of $99.50. 
Analyst Recommendations for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY ) traded down 1.87% during midday trading on Wednesday, hitting $105.74. The 
stock had a trading volume of 183,902 shares. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of 
$108.34. The firm has a market capitalization of $26.09 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 18.90 and a beta of 0.72. 
The firm has a 50-day moving average price of $95.54 and a 200-day moving average price of $86.15.  
A number of hedge funds have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. Segantii Capital Management 
Ltd purchased a new stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter valued at about $7,790,000.  
Arrowgrass Capital Partners US LP purchased a new stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter valued 
at about $17,817,000.  1832 Asset Management L.P. purchased a new stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the 
third quarter valued at about $1,726,000.  Teewinot Capital Advisers L.L.C. increased its stake in  Ryanair Holdings 
plc by 76.5% in the third quarter. Teewinot Capital Advisers L.L.C. now owns 89,552 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $6,719,000 after buying an additional 38,816 shares during the period.  Finally, Brinker 
Capital Inc. increased its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 25.6% in the third quarter. Brinker Capital Inc. now owns 
3,626 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $272,000 after buying an additional 739 shares during 
the period. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  42.80% of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair Holdings plc
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded by Citigroup Inc
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Load-Date: June 21, 2017
End of Document
New Relic (NEWR) Receiving Somewhat Positive Media Coverage, Study Shows
New Relic (NEWR) Receiving Somewhat Positive Media Coverage, Study 
Shows
American Banking and Market News
May 31, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 768 words
Body
New Relic logo News headlines about New Relic (NYSE:NEWR) have been trending somewhat positive recently, 
AlphaOne reports. The research group, a subsidiary of Accern, scores the sentiment of media coverage by 
monitoring more than twenty million blog and news sources. AlphaOne ranks coverage of publicly-traded 
companies on a scale of negative one to one, with scores closest to one being the most favorable. New Relic 
earned a media sentiment score of 0.05 on AlphaOne's scale. AlphaOne also assigned media coverage about the 
software maker an impact score of 0 out of 100, meaning that recent media coverage is extremely unlikely to have 
an effect on the stock's share price in the next several days.  
Here are some of the news headlines that may have impacted AlphaOne's rankings: 
•
Insider Selling: New Relic Inc (NEWR) CFO Sells 3,500 Shares of Stock  (americanbankingnews.com)
•
Ryanair Soars with Real-time Digital Business Performance Metrics from New Relic  (finance.yahoo.com)
•
New 
Relic 
(NEWR) 
Earning 
Somewhat 
Positive 
Media 
Coverage, 
Analysis 
Finds  
(americanbankingnews.com)
•
Dell spins out software business that backs up companies' data in the cloud  (bizjournals.com)
•
Robin Schulman Sells 668 Shares of New Relic Inc (NEWR) Stock  (americanbankingnews.com)
Shares of New Relic (NYSE:NEWR ) traded up 0.89% during trading on Wednesday, hitting $39.87. 272,994 
shares of the company's stock were exchanged. New Relic has a 1-year low of $23.55 and a 1-year high of $40.13. 
The firm's market capitalization is $2.10 billion. The stock's 50 day moving average is $37.68 and its 200 day 
moving average is $34.46.  
New Relic (NYSE:NEWR) last posted its earnings results on Tuesday, February 7th. The software maker reported 
($0.09) EPS for the quarter, topping the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of ($0.14) by $0.05. The company 
earned $68.10 million during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $66.32 million. New Relic had a 
negative net margin of 26.90% and a negative return on equity of 32.99%. The company's revenue for the quarter 
was up 42.6% compared to the same quarter last year. During the same period in the previous year, the firm posted 
($0.22) earnings per share.  On average, equities research analysts forecast that  New Relic will post ($0.53) 
earnings per share for the current year.  
Several analysts have commented on the stock. Zacks Investment Research raised shares of New Relic from a 
"sell" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $44.00 target price for the company in a research note on Wednesday, April 
New Relic (NEWR) Receiving Somewhat Positive Media Coverage, Study Shows
12th. Robert W. Baird lifted their target price on shares of New Relic from $40.00 to $42.00 and gave the stock an 
"outperform" rating in a research note on Thursday, April 6th. Oppenheimer Holdings Inc.  set a $40.00 target price 
on shares of New Relic and gave the stock a "buy" rating in a research note on Tuesday, April 4th. Cowen and 
Company  reaffirmed an "outperform" rating and issued a $44.00 target price (up from $38.00) on shares of New 
Relic in a research note on Wednesday, February 8th. Finally, Pacific Crest  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on 
shares of New Relic in a research note on Friday, January 27th. Nine investment analysts have rated the stock with 
a buy rating,  The stock currently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $43.75. 
In other New Relic news, insider James R. Gochee sold 4,825 shares of the business's stock in a transaction that 
occurred on Thursday, February 16th. The shares were sold at an average price of $34.76, for a total value of 
$167,717.00. Following the completion of the sale, the insider now directly owns 373,386 shares of the company's 
stock, valued at $12,978,897.36. The transaction was disclosed in a legal filing with the Securities & Exchange 
Commission, which is accessible through this hyperlink . Also, CFO Mark Sachleben sold 3,500 shares of the 
business's stock in a transaction that occurred on Monday, April 24th. The stock was sold at an average price of 
$40.00, for a total transaction of $140,000.00. The disclosure for this sale can be found            here . Insiders sold 
141,600 shares of company stock valued at $5,180,143 over the last three months. Insiders own  46.60% of the 
company's stock.  
New Relic Company Profile
New Relic, Inc (New Relic) is a provider of enterprise software. The Company's cloud-based platform and range of 
products enable organizations to collect, store and analyze software data in real time. The Company's New Relic 
Software Analytics Cloud consists of an integrated suite of products, a data database and an open platform.
Load-Date: June 21, 2017
End of Document
Wednesday Papers: Pollsters predict shock Tory losses
Wednesday Papers: Pollsters predict shock Tory losses
Citywire
May 31, 2017 Wednesday 4:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 893 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And Amazon ascent to $1,000 highlights tech stock surge as sector witnessed a surge of more than 
20%.
Body
Top stories
•
The Times: The Conservative Party could be in line to lose 20 seats and Labour gain nearly 30 in next 
week’s general election, according to new modelling by one of the country’s leading pollsters YouGov. 
•
Financial Times: Amazon briefly topped the $1,000-a-share level on Tuesday morning trading in New York 
highlighting how technology stocks have electrified this year’s US stock market rally, overtaking the so-
called Trump trade. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Willie Walsh has given his public backing to British Airways chief Alex Cruz as key 
details into the investigation of what went wrong with the airline’s computer servers over the bank holiday 
weekend can be revealed for the first time. 
•
Financial Times: China’s sovereign wealth fund is in late-stage negotiations to acquire Logicor from its 
private equity owner Blackstone, in a deal that would value the London-based warehouse property group at 
more than €12bn including debt. 
•
Financial Times: The world’s largest exchange traded fund, State Street’s $230 billion flagship 
powerhouse, is losing out to rivals managed by BlackRock and Vanguard this year as the industry’s price 
war deepens and investors shift money into Europe. 
•
Financial Times: China’s first cyber security law will increase costs for multinationals, leave them 
vulnerable to industrial espionage and give Chinese companies an unfair advantage, business 
representatives and analysts have warned. 
Business and economics
•
The Guardian: Brussels is preparing to crack down on accountants and lawyers running tax-avoidance 
schemes in response to the Panama Papers scandal that showed how the rich and powerful hide their 
money. 
•
Financial Times: The combined worth of European football’s leading clubs grew by about €3 billion over the 
past year, as the continent’s biggest teams were boosted by the escalating value of broadcasting deals. 
Wednesday Papers: Pollsters predict shock Tory losses
•
Financial Times: The US showed signs it was leaving behind a soft start to 2017 as new data revealed 
consumer spending grew at its quickest pace of the year in April, suggesting the world’s biggest economy 
was shrugging off political turmoil and was again poised to lead a global recovery. 
•
The Guardian: Ryanair announced a record annual profit on Tuesday in a vindication of its strategy of 
cutting fares to boost market share, and said it planned to turn up the heat further on rivals. 
•
The Times: A backdoor attempt by its Malaysian founder to seize control of Fusionex led to the resignation 
of its chairman, which sent shares in the technology company down 60% yesterday. 
•
The Times: The Chinese private equity firm that controls Pizza Express has replaced the restaurant chain’s 
chief executive with immediate effect as it seeks to step up the pace of international expansion. 
•
The Times: Petrofac’s woes deepened after legal funding specialists said that they were considering 
backing shareholder litigation against the oil services group over its handling of an investigation by the 
Serious Fraud Office. 
•
The Times: The labour market in Japan is at its tightest in more than 43 years with employers struggling to 
fill gaps in the workforce and more jobs available than at the peak of the country’s bubble economy in 
1990. 
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): BUY Gan’s Gamestack; AVOID IAG; BUY Volution. 
•
The Daily Telegraph (Questor share tips): BUY Severn Trent; HOLD Card Factory; HOLD Clipper 
Logistics. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: The Irish government has finally pushed the button on its planned €12 billion (£10.4 
billion) float of Allied Irish Banks in what could be one of the biggest initial public offerings in London in 
recent years. 
•
Daily Mail: The London Stock Exchange has beaten US rivals to snap up an international bond business 
for £535million – making it by far the world's biggest provider of indices data; the firm's FTSE Russell arm 
has acquired Citi's world-leading bond index, used by 350 trading desks around the globe. 
•
The Guardian: Goldman Sachs has confirmed it has bought $2.8 billion worth of bonds from Venezuela’s 
crisis-torn government in a move opposition leaders have decried for propping up the country’s “dictatorial 
regime”. 
•
The Times: Berkeley Group, a FTSE 250 company that predominantly caters to the upper end of the 
London housing market, is believed to have acquired a plot of two and a half acres on the site of a former 
factory close to Birmingham city centre. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Outsourcing firm Capita is in talks for the sale of its recruitment division as it begins 
the process of offloading weaker parts of the business after a turbulent year. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: The UK's competition watchdog has launched an investigation into Tesco's £3.7 
billion deal to merge with food wholesaler Booker. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Berkshire Hathaway, Amazon: two tech companies look to join the pointless and 
rarefied world of $1,000 stocks. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Venezuela/Goldman: emerging market investing is inherently political. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Lanxess/Warren Buffett: Berkshire Hathaway likes the German group’s strategy just 
as it is. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Nintendo: latest device is reviving echoes of the boom years. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): LSE: deal with Citi makes data business an even more important revenue 
generator. 
Wednesday Papers: Pollsters predict shock Tory losses
•
Financial Times (Lex): Ryanair: shares in the budget carrier are close to cruising altitude. 
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair lifts full-year profits after slashing fares Airlines
Ryanair lifts full-year profits after slashing fares; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
May 31, 2017 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 14
Length: 407 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Highlight: Revenues climb to EUR6.6bn as passenger numbers hit a record of 120m
Body
Ryanair has lifted full-year profits despite slashing fares to stimulate demand after terrorist attacks and Britain's 
decision to leave the EU.
Europe's biggest low-cost airline posted a EUR1.32bn post-tax profit for the financial year to March 31.
The figure was at the lower end of guidance of between EUR1.3bn and EUR1.35bn, but in line with analysts' 
expectations. Revenues were 2 per cent higher at EUR6.6bn.
Ryanair had lowered its full-year forecast from EUR1.37bn to EUR1.42bn last year because of the impact of the 
weak pound following the UK referendum.
European airlines have been struggling with economic uncertainty unleashed by the Brexit vote, the effect of terror 
attacks in the EU, and a glut of new capacity, which has been pushing down fares.
Ryanair said it had cut average fares 13 per cent over the year to EUR41, which helped it attract a record 120m 
passengers, up from a previous estimate of 116m. However, there have been signs of a wider turnround, with large 
legacy carriers - BA owner International Airlines Group, Lufthansa and Air France-KLM - and UK-based low-cost 
airline easyJet reporting increased demand for tickets and improving pricing.
Ryanair lifts full-year profits after slashing fares Airlines
Ryanair gave a cautious outlook for the year ahead, saying profits would rise to between EUR1.4bn and 
EUR1.45bn, and warned about the risk of any negative Brexit developments or a repeat of last year's terrorist 
attacks.
It expected average fares for the full year to fall by between 5 and 7 per cent because of the weak pound and 
continuing excess capacity in Europe. That would be an improvement from a decline of 13 per cent last year. 
Ryanair expects to fly 130m passengers this year, a growth of 8 per cent, slower than the 13 per cent growth in 
2016-17.
Michael O'Leary , chief executive, said the airline was happy with its performance despite difficult trading 
conditions. "We reacted to these challenges by improving our customer experience, and stimulating growth with 
lower fares," he said.
The airline announced plans for a EUR600m share buyback to be completed by the end of October. Since 2008 
Ryan-air has returned about EUR5.4bn to investors through buybacks and special dividends.
Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum, said that while guidance for this year was a "touch light" of consensus, it was not 
enough to cause concern given Ryanair's record of conservative forecasts.
"Average fares are seen remaining under pressure, but less so than in 2017," he said.
See Lex
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair : restricted leg room
Ryanair: restricted leg room
Financial Times (London, England)
May 31, 2017 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 10
Length: 394 words
Body
Michael O'Leary is a cheap guy, and he does not mind hearing that from others. Ryanair, the airline he runs, is built 
on keeping costs low and passing on savings in the form of lower fares.
Oddly, investors have to pay a high valuation to own Ryanair shares. The question is not whether the premium is 
deserved but whether the price can travel much higher.
Perennial cost-cutting has enabled Ryanair to squeeze out profits even when sales dip. Yesterday's full-year results 
provided evidence of this.
Revenues grew EUR22m less than expected, up by 2 per cent. Even so, net income grew. Better, earnings per 
share climbed 14 per cent. Share buybacks made the difference. The airline prefers this manner of returning money 
to its shareholders. It has bought back 22 per cent of its shares since 2008, at an average price of EUR8.50. That 
looks cheap compared with EUR18 today. Yet Ryanair has paid an increasingly high valuation for its own shares in 
the past couple of years.
Although it has committed to purchase a further EUR600m of stock this year, expect fewer buybacks in future if the 
shares stay dear.
They are starting to look that way. Consider ratios of price to earnings or enterprise value to earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. On both measures the valuation is cruising near a five-year high. 
Relative to earnings the stock trades two-thirds higher than the MSCI European Airlines index. Only the shares of 
Ryanair : restricted leg room
Qantas and Aeroflot have outrun it in the past three years. Yet the carrier achieves its sector-leading operating 
profit margins of 23 per cent without the benefit of more lucrative long-haul routes.
Pricing, as Mr O'Leary will tell you, is all about what the market will bear. Ryanair expects fares to fall again this 
year, but will recover some of that via other charges. At 27 per cent of sales, ancillary revenues span everything 
from charging for seat reservations to booking hotels through Ryanair's website. The latter, the company gleefully 
reminds us, is a product of in-house IT efforts. British Airways has outsourced its to, let us say, mixed reviews. The 
plan is to lift these ancillary sales to 30 per cent. Mr O'Leary, like a famous showman before him, sees a silver lining 
in every crowd.
The market will want to see that coined into profit before paying even more for a ticket.
Twitter: @FTLex; Email: lex@ft.com 
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
BA brand left stranded in zone of acute reputational risk Airlines: IT outage
BA brand left stranded in zone of acute reputational risk; Airlines: IT outage
Financial Times (London, England)
May 31, 2017 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 14
Length: 745 words
Byline: Tanya Powley and Tobias Buck
Highlight: Pressure is on Cruz and the IAG parent to tackle problem of disintegrating goodwill
Body
British Airways chief executive Alex Cruz made his name in his native Spain, where he was largely seen to have 
done a good job at the country's low-cost carrier Vueling.
His time in the UK is not looking as promising as doubts intensify over his handling of BA's disastrous computer 
crash that stranded 75,000 passengers over the bank holiday weekend.
Aviation analysts believe the IT outage that led to a weekend of chaos that is expected to cost as much as 
EUR100m will put pressure on Mr Cruz and the management of International Airlines Group, parent of BA, to 
address deteriorating passenger views on BA.
"I think this will refocus management on how important BA is in the IAG Group," says Robin Byde, analyst at Cantor 
Fitzgerald. "They've had a lot going on in the last few years - acquiring Aer Lingus, improving Iberia - but BA is 
really the important part of the business."
Although investor reaction was relatively calm, with shares only slightly down, Mr Byde thinks management will 
"undoubtedly" have to revisit cost-cutting plans because of the reputational risk to BA's branding as a premium 
airline. IAG fell 1.38 per cent to 605.5p.
BA brand left stranded in zone of acute reputational risk Airlines: IT outage
Mr Cruz spent time at low-cost carrier Clickair and then, after the company's merger with rival Vueling, as head of 
the combined group.
The Basque father of four quickly gained a reputation for pushing aggressively into new markets and destinations, 
and for his evident determination to apply the lessons of low-cost carrier Ryanair to the staid Iberian market.
"Everyone thought he was excellent," says a consultant who worked with the airline industry at the time. "The big 
question was always whether he could lead a group as big as BA. The scale is totally different, and the business 
concept is different."
Whether Mr Cruz is the right man for the job has now come under scrutiny following last weekend's customer 
services disaster.
While he was largely seen to have done a good job during his time at Vueling, Mr Cruz's departure to BA last April 
came just before the Spanish low-cost carrier suffered huge operational problems in the summer.
"The summer operations meltdown at Vueling was due to over scheduling aircraft and leaving no slack for bad 
weather or events. French Air Traffic Control strikes then caused chaos which they seemed to struggle to recover 
from," says one city analyst.
Vueling went from being the favourite child in the IAG family with the highest margins in 2014, to the airline with the 
lowest margins last year.
As Mr Cruz was still chief executive of Vueling when the summer timetable was set, analysts point out he was 
responsible for growing the airline too "aggressively". "Mr Cruz got promoted out of trouble," says one City analyst, 
who wished to remain anonymous. Another adds: "Just as he moved over to BA, Vueling blew up last summer."
For this reason, Mr Cruz was the only one of 12 senior executives at IAG not to receive a bonus for 2016.
For now, it appears that Mr Cruz, who has refused to resign over the scandal , will be the man faced with the task of 
repairing the damage done to BA over the short term. A spokeswoman for IAG told the FT on Tuesday that Mr Cruz 
has the "full support" of IAG chief executive Willie Walsh , noting that Mr Cruz could not have prevented the IT 
glitch.
Several analysts agree that there is no need for heads to roll. "What's that going to solve? Is it actually going to 
make anything better to change the person at the top or would it be better to have the same person enforce change 
with the benefit of painful lessons?" says Gerald Khoo, analyst at Liberum.
Experts believe BA must explain the source of the power surge that the group says triggered the computer system 
failure, now that flights have returned to normal at Heathrow and Gatwick.
On Monday, Mr Cruz blamed the IT failure on an "exceptional" power surge, which he said had been so strong it 
also disabled the airline's back-up system.
The statement left many in the aviation and energy industry confused.
Electricity companies denied there were any issues with networks that serve Heathrow and the surrounding area. 
Ryanair revealed that it had several back-up systems in place to deal with any similar problems. "That's what most 
businesses would do. We take IT very seriously," says Kenny Jacobs, chief marketing officer at Ryanair.
"There is no doubt the incident is going to sharpen attention at BA on operational resilience," says Mr Khoo.
Additional reporting by Nathalie Thomas
ft.com/lombard
BA brand left stranded in zone of acute reputational risk Airlines: IT outage
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd Takes Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd Takes Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
May 31, 2017 Wednesday 2:11 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 819 words
Byline: Trevor Kearing
Body
May 31, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd 
purchased a new stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the first quarter, according to its most 
recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The fund purchased 63,300 shares of the 
transportation company's stock, valued at approximately $5,253,000. Ryanair Holdings plc accounts for 
approximately 0.9% of NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd's portfolio, making the stock its 23rd largest position.  A number 
of other institutional investors also recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. 
Cavalier Investments LLC increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.2% in the fourth quarter. 
Cavalier Investments LLC now owns 3,867 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $322,000 after 
buying an additional 44 shares in the last quarter. Freestone Capital Holdings LLC increased its stake in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.1% in the fourth quarter. Freestone Capital Holdings LLC now owns 4,982 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $415,000 after buying an additional 53 shares in the last quarter. Timber Hill 
LLC increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.7% in the third quarter. Timber Hill LLC now owns 
6,048 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $454,000 after buying an additional 100 shares in the last 
quarter. Huntington National Bank increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 4.3% in the first quarter. 
Huntington National Bank now owns 2,722 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $226,000 after 
buying an additional 111 shares in the last quarter. Finally, World Asset Management Inc increased its stake in 
shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 0.7% in the first quarter. World Asset Management Inc now owns 15,676 shares 
of the transportation company's stock worth $1,301,000 after buying an additional 112 shares in the last quarter. 
42.80% of the stock is owned by institutional investors. Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) 
traded up 1.45% on Tuesday, hitting $107.76. The company's stock had a trading volume of 349,395 shares. The 
stock's 50 day moving average price is $95.54 and its 200 day moving average price is $86.15. Ryanair Holdings 
plc has a 52 week low of $66.09 and a 52 week high of $108.34. The stock has a market capitalization of $26.59 
billion, a P/E ratio of 19.26 and a beta of 0.72. https://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/05/30/nine-masts-capital-ltd-
takes-position-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay.html.  A number of equities research analysts have recently commented 
on RYAAY shares. Kepler Capital Markets downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in 
a research report on Friday, February 10th. Zacks Investment Research[2] raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' 
rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $109.00 price objective for the company in a research report on Saturday, May 6th. 
Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research report on Monday, 
February 13th. Finally, ValuEngine[3] downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a 
research report on Wednesday, May 24th. One investment analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd Takes Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
given a hold rating and seven have given a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock has an average rating of 
'Hold' and a consensus price target of $99.50. About Ryanair Holdings plc Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) 
is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline 
serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and 
Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air 
passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food and merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily 
summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with 
MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter[5]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 2]:            http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 3]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 5]:            https://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair%20Holdings%20plc 
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
Folly of letting the austerity merchants call all the shots Opinion
Folly of letting the austerity merchants call all the shots; Opinion
Financial Times (London, England)
May 31, 2017 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 14
Length: 541 words
Byline: Andrew Hill
Body
There are two types of redundancy. One involves laying off staff, the other laying on resources. The IT failures at 
British Airways have exposed a truth: airlines are far better at the first than at the second.
Willie Walsh and Alex Cruz are guilty of allowing that gap to widen. They are merchants of austerity. Their cost-
cutting backgrounds recommended them for their positions defending the British flag carrier's margins against low-
cost competition.
At roughly the same moment that low-cost airlines such as EasyJet and Ryanair realised they could add some 
passenger perks , BA set about trimming its frills. Better than any customer poll or staff engagement survey, the 
chaos has revealed how much goodwill the airline sacrificed in the process.
This is where having different types of people in the top jobs becomes important. Airlines are prone to more factors 
beyond their control than almost any other customer-centric business. Stuff happens, not just IT outages but 
storms, mechanical failures, terror threats, ash clouds, "involuntary denials of boarding" and, heaven forbid, 
accidents. Somebody needs to anchor the public response.
If you set aside Mr Cruz's natural reluctance not to submit to a public stoning before establishing the detail of what 
had happened, he said some of the right things in his direct-to-YouTube videos. In the first , which went online on 
Saturday, he said he was extremely sorry - always the right start - and promised to speed refunds to passengers. 
But his explanation of what went wrong was, and remains, hopelessly sketchy and his tone was unconvincing. What 
Folly of letting the austerity merchants call all the shots Opinion
is more, BA clearly lacked sufficient resources to recover from its IT outage and fulfil its passenger promises 
afterwards. In the latest video , Mr Cruz tells passengers whose luggage is still marooned somewhere in the BA 
system that "we have your bags and will look after them". His reassurance has all the cold conviction of a kidnapper 
submitting a ransom demand.
When Mr Cruz quits - and he will, maybe not this week or even this year, but quietly, at some future point when the 
outrage has died down - the airline should seriously reconsider the job specification for his replacement.
For years, bosses of the old flag-carrying airlines have been hired on the basis that "their whole life is about how to 
squeeze an extra mile out of a gallon of jet fuel". Of course, some of the hysteria about BA's failings is an over-
reaction. Security concerns and financial pressures have turned airports and air travel, even on a good day, into a 
barely tolerable experience. Passengers are quick to crack.
But precisely for that reason, airline chiefs need to have skills that go beyond a good eye for an uncontrolled 
overhead. They need to be able to connect with passengers. They need to be ready to handle emergencies with 
aplomb, conviction and empathy. Critically, they need to be prepared and have the resources available to swamp 
any problems with on-the-ground customer care and compensation.
BA could have cushioned itself from this crisis if it had benefited from a little more redundancy - the second, rather 
than the first type - and had hired a chief executive for customer-friendliness as much as for cost-effectiveness.
andrew.hill@ft.com 
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Says Welcomes Ruling By Liverpool County Court Against 'claims Chasers'
Ryanair Says Welcomes Ruling By Liverpool County Court Against 'claims 
Chasers'
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
May 31, 2017 Wednesday 11:52 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 168 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) Wednesday said it welcomed 
the Liverpool County Court ruling in the cases involving UK 'Claims Chasers'.   The ruling upheld Ryanair's policy 
requiring EU261 cases involving 'claims chasers' to be heard in the Irish Courts and dismissing an application by 
claims chasing firm Hughes Walker to have their cases heard in England in an effort to needlessly force more 
customers through the courts.  Ryanair calls on all customers with valid EU261 compensation claims to submit their 
claims directly to Ryanair and avoid these 'claims chaser' firms. Customers with valid claims, who claim directly 
from Ryanair, will receive 100% of their EU261 compensation entitlement without the deduction of these excessive 
'claims chaser' fees.  Ryanair again called on the Competition and Markets Authority or CMA to enforce better 
regulations of 'claims chasers' to protect consumers from being ripped off by these self-serving firms.      
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
BA owner's share price suffers while Ryanair hits record profit
BA owner's share price suffers while Ryanair hits record profit
City A.M.
May 31, 2017 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 114 words
Byline: REBECCA SMITH ; HELEN CAHILL
Body
SHARES in British Airways owner IAG swooped to the bottom of the FTSE 100 at the open yesterday, after a global 
IT outage caused bank holiday chaos for passengers.
A power failure on Saturday resulted in mass flight cancellations across London Heathrow and Gatwick airports, 
causing chaos for 75,000 passengers. The trouble is expected to land the airline a sky-high bill. Blackstone 
declined to comment. Its shares closed down 1.38 per cent to 605.5p.
Ryanair also opened low, but later pared back most losses after announcing record income. Profits after tax rose 
six per cent to (EURO)1.31bn (£1.14bn). The airline reduced its prices by 13 per cent to an average of (EURO)41 
per fare.
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
Pre-Market Briefing: US Equities Futures Flat to Lower; ECB's Draghi Says Eurozone Still Needs Monetary 
Support
Pre-Market Briefing: US Equities Futures Flat to Lower; ECB's Draghi Says 
Eurozone Still Needs Monetary Support
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 4:49 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 427 words
Body
 US equities futures were near unchanged early Tuesday after the Memorial Day weekend, following European 
markets lower after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi made dovish statements on the Eurozone 
economy, saying it still needs monetary support. 
The US dollar gained against the euro and Canadian dollar but was off against the pound sterling and the Japanese 
yen. 
- The S&P 500 future was down 0.07% recently, the Dow was down 0.06% and Nasdaq was down 0.02%.
- Crude oil futures were lower with West Texas Intermediate crude oil for delivery in July down 0.5% at $49.53 and 
Brent crude down 0.9% at $51.81. 
- In economic data, consumer spending figures are out at 8:30 am ET, followed by the S&P Corelogic Case-Shiller 
house price index at 9 am, The Conference Board's consumer confidence index at 10 am and the Dallas Fed 
manufacturing survey at 10:30 am.
- Companies reporting earnings Tuesday morning include American Woodmark Corporation (AMWD), Bank of 
Novia Scotia (BNS) and Multi-Color Corporation (LABL)
Overnight/Weekend news:
- Citigroup (C): Sells fixed income analytics and index businesses to London Stock Exchange for $685 million
- First Data (FDC): Agrees to buy CardConnect (CCN) for $15 per share or $750 million
- Ryanair (RYAAY): In talks with Boeing (BA) to add more jets to existing delivery schedule
Pre-Market Briefing: US Equities Futures Flat to Lower; ECB's Draghi Says Eurozone Still Needs Monetary 
Support
- PPG Industries (PPG): Says without productive engagement from AkzoNobel, it will decide whether or not to 
pursue a deal after AkzoNobel wins case brought by activist shareholder Elliott Advisors
- Credit Suisse (CS): The Monetary Authority of Singapore fines bank for beach of anti-money laundering regulation
Press digest:
- Western Digital (WDC): Said to possibly join consortium of Japanese government and KKR & Co (KKR) to bid for 
Toshiba's chip unit (Reuters)
- Goldman Sachs (GS): Bank on defensive after it bought bonds that had been held by Venezuela's struggling 
central bank in a deal government's opposition called a lifeline to President Nicolas Maduro's embattled 
administration (The Wall Street Journal)
- Apollo Global Management (APO): Aion Capital Partners, a private-equity firm backed by Apollo, is said to be 
among suitors interested in buying stake in India's Catholic Syrian Bank Ltd (Bloomberg)
- Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS): RBoS Shareholder Action Group says its financial backer is supportive of GBP0.82 
offer from bank; shareholders allege bank misled them during a capital increase in 2008 (Bloomberg)
- PepsiCo (PEP): Said in talks to acquire All Market Inc, maker of coconut water brand Vita Coco (Reuters)
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
BA debacle puts spotlight on airlines' old IT systems, cuts
BA debacle puts spotlight on airlines' old IT systems, cuts
Associated Press Financial Wire
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 3:53 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 586 words
Byline: By DANICA KIRKA, Associated Press
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
LONDON (AP) - The catastrophic IT failure at British Airways that ruined travel plans for 75,000 people has raised 
questions about some older airlines' focus on costs to the detriment of investment in new computer systems.
As British Airways resumed full service Tuesday, shares in its parent company, International Airlines Group, 
dropped 3 percent as investors appeared to worry that the company's quality of service may have been undermined 
by recent efforts to save money.
Disaster struck on Saturday, when the company's computer systems went down and there was no functioning back-
up. The airline cancelled all flights and only managed to resume full service on Tuesday.
"Although cost cutting has been good for the share price in the last year, it will come back to bite IAG if it stops 
them from doing what they are supposed to do: Fly passengers to their destinations," said Kathleen Brooks, the 
research director at City Index.
IAG has been battling tough competition, even as it has faced pressure on its earnings from a weaker pound 
following Britain's decision to leave the European Union. The company issued a profit warning following the Brexit 
vote nearly a year ago.
Cost pressures aggravated an already complicated situation. Renewing IT systems is complex, time-consuming 
and expensive - a factor that prompts many companies to put it off as long as possible, said Loizos Heracleous, a 
professor of strategy at Warwick Business School.
The problem with IT systems is recurring across the industry, particularly among established airlines. In August, 
Delta Air lines cancelled hundreds of flights when a power outage likewise knocked out its computer systems 
worldwide.
Airlines face challenges with their IT systems also due to linkages across their systems. There's further demand on 
the system when companies consolidate - as has been the case among airlines - since "IT issues get heightened 
and any vulnerabilities are exposed."
BA debacle puts spotlight on airlines' old IT systems, cuts
Such troubles give an advantage to newer airlines such as Ryanair, a cost-cutting BA rival that focuses on short 
haul budget flights.
"The ability to set up an airline from scratch by-passes a lot of the legacy issues, because you can go for state-of-
the-art systems," Heracleous said. "Newer airlines can also invest in IT systems that are more easily upgradeable 
and scaleable. An airline such as Ryanair, that is also financially successful, has more leeway to divert needed 
resources towards upgrading its IT systems."
Capitalizing on BA's troubles, Ryanair said it had seen "strong bookings" over the weekend. Its Twitter account 
rubbed salt into the wound with tweets that poked fun and added the hashtag "ShouldHaveFlownRyanair."
The company's chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs, admitted on the BBC "we had a bit of fun on social media."
"We don't take social media seriously but we do take IT very seriously and that is why we've never had an outage," 
he told the BBC.
Ryanair posted a 6 percent increase in annual profits Tuesday to 1.3 billion euros ($1.4 billion) despite "difficult 
trading conditions," caused by terror attacks in European cities and a sharp decline in the British pound.
BA, meanwhile, is counting up the cost of an IT debacle that some have estimated could run into the tens of 
millions. There are also all those news clips of passengers swearing they will never fly the airline again.
"The whole sorry episode has undeniably put a dent in BA's reputation for delivering a premium service," said 
George Salmon, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown.
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
LONDON MARKET EARLY CALL: Stocks To Give Back Gains After Long Weekend
LONDON MARKET EARLY CALL: Stocks To Give Back Gains After Long 
Weekend
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 2:10 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Body
  London share prices are set to open lower on Tuesday, following a long weekend with a bank holiday in the UK, 
with the FTSE 100 index having closed at an all-time high on Friday. 
IG says futures indicate the FTSE 100 to open 12.63 points lower at 7,535.00. The blue-chip index closed on Friday 
up 0.4%, or 29.92 points, at 7,547.63. This was only a fraction off the new all-time high reached earlier in the day, 
helping the index to close the week 1.0% higher. 
The FTSE 100 was helped by a weak pound following disappointing UK GDP data, while better-than-expected GDP 
data from the US provided a boost to the dollar. 
The pound has recovered some ground since, having on Friday hit a low of USD1.2774, its lowest against the 
greenback since mid-April. The UK currency was standing at USD1.2816 early Tuesday, compared to USD1.2786 
at the London equities close on Friday. 
Wall Street also was closed on Monday for Memorial Day. On Friday, the DJIA and the the S&P 500 indices both 
ended flat, while the Nasdaq Composite rose 0.1%.
In Asia, the Shanghai equity market was closed on Monday and remains closed Tuesday for the Dragon Boat 
Festival in China. The Hong Kong market also was closed on Tuesday. 
The Tokyo market is open, with the Japanese Nikkei 225 index flat. 
In the economic calendar on Tuesday, French consumer spending, confidence and GDP is at 0745 BST, eurozone 
economic sentiment and business climate is at 1000 BST and the German consumer price index is at 1330 BST. 
US personal spending and income is at 1330 BST and the Redbook index is at 1355 BST.
In the UK corporate calendar, software firm Kainos Group, gene editor Horizon Discovery Group and chain, gears 
and couplings manufacturer Renold all post full-year reports. 
LONDON MARKET EARLY CALL: Stocks To Give Back Gains After Long Weekend
In early UK company news, Irish budget airline Ryanair Holdings reported profit attributable to shareholders of 
EUR1.32 billion, or 104.64 euro cents per share, for its financial year ended March 31, down from EUR1.56 billion, 
or 115.63 euro cents, in the prior year.
Excluding the exceptional gain of EUR317.5 million on the sale of Ryanair's Aer Lingus shareholding to 
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA in the prior year, financial 2017 profit after tax improved 6%, while 
earnings per share increased 14%.
Operating revenue from continuing operations was EUR6.65 billion, up 1.7% from EUR6.54 billion the previous 
year. Ryanair said the combination of a 13% cut in average fares, coupled with Year 3 of its "Always Getting Better" 
programme delivered 13% traffic growth to 120 million customers, and a load factor of 94%.
British Airways, part of IAG, was running around "95%" of flights to and from London's Heathrow and Gatwick 
airports on Monday following a weekend computer outage that grounded the company's aircraft at both hubs and 
caused delays worldwide.
"We are running at...just over 95% of the flights: That means...all long-haul flights in Heathrow...[and] just over 90% 
of the short-haul flights in Heathrow and all flights in Gatwick," BA chief executive Alex Cruz said in a video 
published on the company's Twitter feed.
He said that over 75,000 passengers had been affected by the weekend computer failure and that two-thirds of 
them would have reached their destinations by the end of Monday, which was a public holiday at the end of a long 
weekend in Britain.
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
European Shares Extend Declines For Fourth Consecutive Day
European Shares Extend Declines For Fourth Consecutive Day
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 5:26 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 303 words
Body
 European stocks extended declines for a fourth consecutive session on Tuesday as fresh political worries 
surrounding Britain, Italy and Greece sapped investors' appetite for risk and helped spur demand for safe-haven 
assets.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index was down 0.3% at 390.02 in late opening deals, extending losses for 
the fourth straight session.
The German DAX was down about 0.1% while France's CAC 40 index was losing as much as 0.8%.
The UK's FTSE 100 was down 0.3% as traders returned to their desks following a long holiday weekend.
Banks led losses after Deutsche Bank analysts cut their rating on regional banking stocks to "underweight". 
UniCredit, Commerzbank, Societe Generale and Barclays fell over 1% each.
International Consolidated Airlines Group lost almost 3% as British Airways grapples with a massive IT system 
failure over the weekend that led to hundreds of flights being cancelled.
Ryanair Holdings dropped 1.5%. The discount carrier said that the slump of the British currency after the Brexit vote 
will likely lead to a 5-7% decline in average ticket prices for the full financial year.
German luxury car maker BMW edged up marginally. The company has halted production of certain models this 
week because of a shortage of steering gears supplied by Robert Bosch.
In economic releases, French GDP grew 0.4% sequentially in the first quarter, slower than the 0.5% increase seen 
in the fourth quarter but a tad higher then the initial estimate of 0.3%, second estimate from the statistical office 
Insee showed.
A gauge of French consumer confidence strengthened in May to the highest level in nearly ten years, while 
consumer spending rose for the first time in three months in April.
European Shares Extend Declines For Fourth Consecutive Day
Economic sentiment and business confidence data from the euro area are slated for release later in the day.
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
TOP NEWS: Ryanair Annual Profit Rises 6% Excluding Aer Lingus Gain
TOP NEWS: Ryanair Annual Profit Rises 6% Excluding Aer Lingus Gain
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 1:52 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 218 words
Body
 Irish budget airline Ryanair Holdings PLC reported on Tuesday profit attributable to shareholders of EUR1.32 
billion, or 104.64 euro cents per share, for its financial year ended March 31, down from EUR1.56 billion, or 115.63 
euro cents, in the prior year. 
Excluding the exceptional gain of EUR317.5 million on the sale of Ryanair's Aer Lingus shareholding to 
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA in the prior year, financial 2017 profit after tax improved 6%, while 
earnings per share increased 14%.
Operating revenue from continuing operations was EUR6.65 billion, up 1.7% from EUR6.54 billion the previous 
year. Ryanair said the combination of a 13% cut in average fares, coupled with Year 3 of its "Always Getting Better" 
programme delivered 13% traffic growth to 120 million customers, and a load factor of 94%.
Looking forward, Ryanair said, it is cautiously guiding an 8% increase in financial 2018 net profit to a range of 
EUR1.40 billion to EUR1.45 billion. It warned of the risk of negative Brexit developments, or any repeat of previous 
year's security events in European cities, which could damage consumer confidence.
Ryanair said its board has approved a further EUR600 million share buyback which will start current week and, 
subject to market conditions, be completed by the end of October.
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Lower as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
European ADRs Edge Lower as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 11:15 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 259 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.2% lower at 134.91 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Tuesday morning. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by telecommunications stocks Telecom Italia (TI) and Telecom Italia - 
Savings (TI.A), both 3.3% lower, followed by Advanced Accelorator Applications (AAAP), a radiopharmaceutical 
company, down by 2.5%. Forward Pharma (FWP), a Danish biopharmaceutical company,  was 2.4% lower. 
In the UK, pharmaceutical companies were among the biggest decliners with Verona Pharma (VRNA) 6.1% lower, 
followed by Akari Therapeutics (AKTX), down by 3.0% and GW Pharmaceuticals (GWPH), 2.1% lower. Midatech 
Pharma (MTP), was 1.7% lower. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Oasmia Pharmaceuticals (OASM), 4.1% higher, followed by Sequans 
Communications (SQNS), a French developer of chipset solutions, up by 2.2% and argenx (ARGX), a Netherlands-
based biopharmaceutical company, 1.2% higher. DBV Technologies (DBVT), a French clinical-stage 
biopharmaceutical company, was up by 0.9%. 
And, in the UK, Amec Foster Wheeler (AMFW), an engineering conglomerate, was 2.7% higher, followed by 
Adaptimmune Therapeutics (ADAP) and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), both biopharmaceutical companies, 2.3% and 
2.0% higher, respectively. And, Ryanair (RYAAY), a low-cost airline, was up by 1.7% after posting an increase in 
net income in its fiscal year through the end of March as fare reductions lured more passengers onto its flights and 
unit costs fell. 
Price: 1.89, Change: -0.20, Percent Change: -9.57
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
European ADRs Edge Lower as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
End of Document
European Markets Hit By Political Uncertainty
European Markets Hit By Political Uncertainty
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 12:06 PM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 722 words
Body
 The European markets ended Tuesday's session with modest losses, extending their recent losing streak to four 
straight sessions.
Fresh political worries surrounding Britain, Italy and Greece sapped investors' appetite for risk, as well as mounting 
tensions between North Korea and the West.
Greece has warned that its recovery would be thrown into doubt if Brussels blocked a debt deal at the next meeting 
of euro area finance ministers. Media reports suggest that Athens may opt out of its next bailout payment if 
creditors cannot agree on debt relief.
Speculation over a possible early election in Italy intensified after rivals Matteo Renzi and Beppe Grillo edged closer 
to a deal on rewriting Italy's electoral law.
Bank stocks were under pressure after Deutsche Bank analysts cut their rating on regional banking stocks to 
"Underweight."
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index weakened by 0.23%. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip 
stocks decreased 0.50%, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major UK companies, lost 0.35%.
The DAX of Germany dropped 0.24% and the CAC 40 of France fell 0.50%. The FTSE 100 of the UK declined 
0.28% and the SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 0.27%.
In Frankfurt, luxury car maker BMW finished down by 0.38%. The company has halted production of certain models 
this week because of a shortage of steering gears supplied by Robert Bosch.
Deutsche Bank weakened by 1.64% and Commerzbank surrendered 0.92%.
In Paris, Credit Agricole decreased 0.90% and Societe Generale forfeited 1.43%. BNP Paribas also finished lower 
by 0.08%.
European Markets Hit By Political Uncertainty
In London, International Consolidated Airlines Group dropped 1.38% as British Airways grapples with a massive IT 
system failure over the weekend that led to hundreds of flights being canceled.
Ryanair Holdings rose 2.39%. The discount carrier said that the slump of the British currency after the Brexit vote 
will likely lead to a 5-7% decline in average ticket prices for the full financial year.
Barclays declined 1.16% and Royal Bank of Scotland lost 0.38%. Lloyds Banking Group dropped 0.86% and 
Standard Chartered surrendered 0.95%.
Eurozone economic confidence declined unexpectedly in May from a near decade high on weak services and retail 
sentiment, yet remained strong enough to signal a pick up in the growth momentum. The economic confidence 
index declined to 109.2 in May from a revised 109.7 in the previous month, survey results from the European 
Commission showed Tuesday.
The score was forecast to improve to 110 from April's initial reading of 109.6, which was the highest since August 
2007.
Germany's consumer price inflation eased more-than-expected in May to its lowest level in six months, preliminary 
data from Destatis showed Tuesday. The consumer price index rose 1.5% annually following 2% gain in April. 
Economists had forecast 1.6% inflation.
Germany's import price inflation remained stable in April, figures from Destatis showed Tuesday. Import prices 
advanced 6.1% year-on-year in April, the same pace of growth as seen in March. Economists had forecast the 
annual rate to accelerate to 6.3%.
Data showed that export prices climbed 2.6% year-on-year in April, faster than the 2.3% rise registered in March. 
Month-on-month, export prices gained 0.2% after staying flat a month ago.
French consumer confidence strengthened in May to the highest level in nearly ten years, while consumer spending 
rose for the first time in three months in April, figures from the statistical office Insee showed Tuesday. The 
consumer confidence index climbed to 102.0 in May from 100.0 in April.
Personal income and spending both increased in line with economist estimates in the month of April, according to a 
report released by the Commerce Department on Tuesday.
The report said personal income climbed by 0.4% in April after rising by 0.2% in March. The increase matched 
economist estimates.
Additionally, the Commerce Department said personal spending rose by 0.4% in April after climbing by 0.3% in 
March. The spending growth also matched expectations.
US consumer confidence unexpectedly fell in May, the second consecutive monthly decline, according to a report 
from the Conference Board. The Conference Board's Consumer Confidence Index slipped to 117.9, down from 
119.4 in April. Economists expected a reading in the neighborhood of 119.5.
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Full Year Profit Rises on Higher Passenger Numbers, Falling Unit Costs
Ryanair Full Year Profit Rises on Higher Passenger Numbers, Falling Unit 
Costs
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 6:11 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 343 words
Body
 Ryanair (RYA.L), a European budget airline, posted an increase in net income in its fiscal year through the end of 
March as fare reductions lured more passengers onto its flights and unit costs fell. 
Net profit rose to 1.32 billion euros ($1.47 billion) from 1.24 billion euros a year earlier, which excluded an 
exceptional gain, the company said in a statement on Tuesday. The company had expected its full year profit in a 
range of between 1.30 billion euros and 1.35 billion euros after lowering its forecast in October from an earlier 
estimate of 1.38 billion euros to 1.43 billion euros, citing falling fares mainly due to the depreciation of the pound 
following the referendum decision to leave the European Union. 
Revenue rose 2% to 6.65 billion euros in the fiscal year even as average fares dropped by 13% to 41 euros. Traffic 
increased 13% to 120 million passengers, resulting in a 94% load factor. While total operating expenses rose 1% to 
5.11 billion euros, unit costs were down by 11% when fuel costs are included and down by 5% when fuel costs are 
excluded. 
In the 2018 fiscal year Ryanair said that it is cautiously guiding for an 8% increase in net profit to a range of 1.40 
billion euros to 1.45 billion euros. It expects fares to drop 5%-to-7% due to continued pound weakness and excess 
capacity in the European market. The company said that it also expects passenger numbers to increase by 8% to 
130 million in the current fiscal year,  driven by a focus on improving load factor. While the company said its forward 
bookings for the first fiscal half are "robust," at 1% higher than in the same period a year earlier, it added that 
pricing remains soft. 
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive, said that the increase in net income in the 2017 fiscal year had occurred 
"despite difficult trading conditions in full year 2017 caused by a series of security events at European cities, a 
switch of charter capacity from North Africa, Turkey and Egypt to mainland Europe, and a sharp decline in sterling 
following the June 2016 Brexit vote". 
Ryanair Full Year Profit Rises on Higher Passenger Numbers, Falling Unit Costs
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
European Shares Extend Declines For Fourth Day
European Shares Extend Declines For Fourth Day
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 11:16 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 328 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - European stocks extended declines for a fourth consecutive 
session on Tuesday as fresh political worries surrounding Britain, Italy and Greece sapped investors' appetite for 
risk and helped spur demand for safe-haven assets.  The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index was down 0.3 
percent at 390.02 in late opening deals, extending losses for the fourth straight session.   The German DAX was 
down about 0.1 percent while France's CAC 40 index was losing as much as 0.8 percent. 
  The U.K.'s FTSE 100 was down 0.3 percent as traders returned to their desks following a long holiday weekend.  
Banks led losses after Deutsche Bank analysts cut their rating on regional banking stocks to 'underweight'. 
UniCredit, Commerzbank, Societe Generale and Barclays fell over 1 percent each.   International Consolidated 
Airlines Group lost almost 3 percent as British Airways grapples with a massive IT system failure over the weekend 
that led to hundreds of flights being canceled.  Ryanair Holdings dropped 1.5 percent. The discount carrier said that 
the slump of the British currency after the Brexit vote will likely lead to a 5-7 percent decline in average ticket prices 
for the full financial year.  German luxury car maker BMW edged up marginally. The company has halted production 
of certain models this week because of a shortage of steering gears supplied by Robert Bosch.  In economic 
releases, French GDP grew 0.4 percent sequentially in the first quarter, slower than the 0.5 percent increase seen 
in the fourth quarter but a tad higher then the initial estimate of 0.3 percent, second estimate from the statistical 
office Insee showed.  A gauge of French consumer confidence strengthened in May to the highest level in nearly 
ten years, while consumer spending rose for the first time in three months in April.  Economic sentiment and 
business confidence data from the euro area are slated for release later in the day.      
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair posts record annual profit
Ryanair posts record annual profit
Business World (Digest)
May 30, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 576 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair posted record annual profits on Tuesday as its strategy paid off of continuing to expand in Europe despite 
an already crowded market, and vowed to set a new record for profits next year while cutting ticket prices by up to 
7%.
The Irish low-cost pioneer in Europe added almost 14 million seats in the year to March 31 with fares discounted by 
an average of 13% on the previous year's as it continued to cut unit costs by increasing loadings and securing 
cheaper airport user charges as traffic increases.
Its costs were also cut significantly by the fall in the value of sterling over the past year and looking ahead the airline 
expects to gain significant savings from new more fuel efficient planes with more seats and from a five-year pay 
deal with staff.
"The gap is widening between Ryanair and our competitors,” Chief Executive Michael O’Leary said.
Last year, despite lower fares Ryanair earned a record net profit of 1.316 billion euros, in line with analysts' 
forecasts.
"Given the terrorist attacks and a big shift in capacity from North Africa Egypt and Turkey into Spain creating 
overcapacity, it was a good year," chief commercial officer David O'Brien said.
The airline said it expected to increase its net profit in the current year by around 8 percent to between 1.4 billion 
and 1.45 billion euros by adding an additional 10 million seats of capacity while allowing fares to fall by a more 
modest 5 to 7%.
Ryanair posts record annual profit
The profit forecast was slightly behind the average forecast given in a poll of analysts of 1.455 billion 
and Ryanair shares were initially down 1.5% but were up 0.23% at 17.79 euros by 0748 GMT, just short of the 
year's high of 17.93 set last week.
"This is a slightly disappointing statement, with everything a little more muted than we had forecast," Goodbody 
Stockbrokers analyst Mark Simpson said in a note.
After years of falling ticket prices, some rival European carriers in recent weeks have reported seeing signs of a 
turnaround as the decline in fares slows.
British Airways owner IAG had said before it was hit by a disastrous IT failure at the weekend that it expected 
quarterly revenue per passenger mile flown to register its first year-on-year increase since 2014 in the three months 
to the end of June.
Air France and Lufthansa have also said that the pricing environment and bookings are improving heading into the 
summer.
"We are maybe a little less optimistic than some of the other airlines out there on pricing but we are all singing the 
same tune," Chief Financial Officer Neil Sorahan told Reuters.
Ryanair's cost base, already the lowest in the industry, fell 5% last year after fuel price falls were excluded and will 
fall a further 1% this year, Sorahan said.
In a sign of Ryanair's financial confidence, Sorahan announced a new 600 million-euro share buyback to start 
immediately.
However, O'Leary warned that there were a number of potential clouds on the horizon, including Brexit negotiations 
which he has said could lead to a total breakdown in all flights between Britain and the EU for a time.
The impact on bookings of the recent suicide bombing in Manchester in which 22 people died was likely to be short-
lived, but an additional attack could knock bookings off course, he said.
"Investors should be wary of the risk of negative Brexit developments, or any repeat of last year’s security events at 
European cities, which could damage consumer confidence," O'Leary said. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: June 13, 2017
End of Document
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for May 30th 2017
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for May 30th 2017
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 279 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Economic and financial data for Tuesday, May 30th 2017  ^   DATA RELEASES 
07:00 IRL: Ryanair                                  Full Year Figures 08:45 F:   Consumer Confidence 05/17 08:45 F:   
Consumer Spending 04/17 08:45 F:   GDP Q1/17 Preliminary 09:00 CH   KOF Economic Barometer 09:00 E:   
Consumer Prices 05/17 Preliminary 09:00 D:   Nordex                                   Annual General Meeting, Rostock 
10:00 I:   Producer Prices 04/17 10:00 D:   Porsche Automobil Holding                Annual General Meeting, Stuttgart 
10:00 D:   Wacker Neuson                            Annual General Meeting, M\xFCnchen 10:00 D:   Carl Zeiss Meditec                   
Annual General Meeting, Jena 10:00 D:   Deutsche Pfandbriefbank                  Annual General Meeting, 
M\xFCnchen 11:00 EU:  Business Climate Indicator 05/17 11:00 EU:  Consumer Confidence 05/17 Final 13:00 D:   
RIB Software                             Annual General Meeting, Stuttgart 14:00 NL:  ABN Amro                   
Annual General Meeting 14:00 D:   Consumer Prices 05/17 Preliminary 14:30 USA: Personal Spending and Income 
04/17 15:00 USA: Case-Shiller-Index 03/17 16:00 USA: Consumer Confidence 05/17  MORE DATA RELEASES 
WITH NO TIME SPECIFIED       D:   NordLB                                   Q1        CH:  Novartis                   
Investor Meeting   NOTE:       CHN: Public Holiday, Stock Exchange closed\xB0  While all data were researched 
with the greatest care, dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH assumes no liability for the correctness of this 
information. 
All time designations are provided in CEST.  Copyright dpa-AFX    
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair FY17 Profit Rises Excl. Prior Year Gain; Revenue Up 2%
Ryanair FY17 Profit Rises Excl. Prior Year Gain; Revenue Up 2%
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 7:37 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 238 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported profit - all attributable to equity holders of 
parent- of 1.32 billion euros or 104.64 euro cent for the year ended March 31, 2017 compared to 1.56 billion euros 
or 115.63 euro cent, prior year. Excluding the exceptional accounting gain of 317.5 million euros on the sale of Aer 
Lingus shareholding in prior fiscal year, fiscal 2017 profit after tax improved 6% year-over-year. 
Excluding the prior year gain, earnings per share increased 14%.  Fiscal year total operating revenues - continuing 
operations - was 6.65 billion euros compared to 6.54 billion euros, a year ago. The company said the combination 
of a 13% cut in average fares, coupled with Year 3 of the 'Always Getting Better' (AGB) programme delivered 13% 
traffic growth to 120 million customers, and a load factor of 94%.   Looking forward, Ryanair said, it is cautiously 
guiding an 8% increase in fiscal 2018 net profit to a range of 1.40 to 1.45 billion euros. The company noted that 
investors should be wary of the risk of negative Brexit developments, or any repeat of previous year's security 
events at European cities, which could damage consumer confidence, close-in bookings, and the announced fiscal 
2018 guidance.  The Board has approved a further 600 million euros share buyback which will start current week 
and, subject to market conditions, be completed by the end of October.      
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
European Markets Hit By Political Uncertainty
European Markets Hit By Political Uncertainty
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 6:03 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 776 words
Body
       BRUSSELS/FRANKFURT/PARIS (dpa-AFX) - The European markets ended Tuesday's session with modest 
losses, extending their recent losing streak to four straight sessions. Fresh political worries surrounding Britain, Italy 
and Greece sapped investors' appetite for risk, as well as mounting tensions between North Korea and the West.  
Greece has warned that its recovery would be thrown into doubt if Brussels blocked a debt deal at the next meeting 
of euro area finance ministers. Media reports suggest that Athens may opt out of its next bailout payment if 
creditors cannot agree on debt relief. 
  Speculation over a possible early election in Italy intensified after rivals Matteo Renzi and Beppe Grillo edged 
closer to a deal on rewriting Italy's electoral law.  Bank stocks were under pressure after Deutsche Bank analysts 
cut their rating on regional banking stocks to 'Underweight.'  The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index weakened 
by 0.23 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks decreased 0.50 percent, while the Stoxx 
Europe 50 index, which includes some major U.K. companies, lost 0.35 percent.  The DAX of Germany dropped 
0.24 percent and the CAC 40 of France fell 0.50 percent. The FTSE 100 of the U.K. declined 0.28 percent and the 
SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 0.27 percent.  In Frankfurt, luxury car maker BMW finished down by 0.38 
percent. The company has halted production of certain models this week because of a shortage of steering gears 
supplied by Robert Bosch.  Deutsche Bank weakened by 1.64 percent and Commerzbank surrendered 0.92 
percent.  In Paris, Credit Agricole decreased 0.90 percent and Societe Generale forfeited 1.43 percent. BNP 
Paribas also finished lower by 0.08 percent.   In London, International Consolidated Airlines Group dropped 1.38 
percent as British Airways grapples with a massive IT system failure over the weekend that led to hundreds of 
flights being canceled.  Ryanair Holdings rose 2.39 percent. The discount carrier said that the slump of the British 
currency after the Brexit vote will likely lead to a 5-7 percent decline in average ticket prices for the full financial 
year.  Barclays declined 1.16 percent and Royal Bank of Scotland lost 0.38 percent. Lloyds Banking Group dropped 
0.86 percent and Standard Chartered surrendered 0.95 percent.  Eurozone economic confidence declined 
unexpectedly in May from a near decade high on weak services and retail sentiment, yet remained strong enough 
to signal a pick up in the growth momentum. The economic confidence index declined to 109.2 in May from a 
revised 109.7 in the previous month, survey results from the European Commission showed Tuesday.   The score 
was forecast to improve to 110 from April's initial reading of 109.6, which was the highest since August 2007.   
European Markets Hit By Political Uncertainty
Germany's consumer price inflation eased more-than-expected in May to its lowest level in six months, preliminary 
data from Destatis showed Tuesday. The consumer price index rose 1.5 percent annually following 2 percent gain 
in April. Economists had forecast 1.6 percent inflation.  Germany's import price inflation remained stable in April, 
figures from Destatis showed Tuesday. Import prices advanced 6.1 percent year-on-year in April, the same pace of 
growth as seen in March. Economists had forecast the annual rate to accelerate to 6.3 percent.  Data showed that 
export prices climbed 2.6 percent year-on-year in April, faster than the 2.3 percent rise registered in March. Month-
on-month, export prices gained 0.2 percent after staying flat a month ago.   French consumer confidence 
strengthened in May to the highest level in nearly ten years, while consumer spending rose for the first time in three 
months in April, figures from the statistical office Insee showed Tuesday. The consumer confidence index climbed 
to 102.0 in May from 100.0 in April.  Personal income and spending both increased in line with economist estimates 
in the month of April, according to a report released by the Commerce Department on Tuesday.  The report said 
personal income climbed by 0.4 percent in April after rising by 0.2 percent in March. The increase matched 
economist estimates.  Additionally, the Commerce Department said personal spending rose by 0.4 percent in April 
after climbing by 0.3 percent in March. The spending growth also matched expectations.  U.S. consumer 
confidence unexpectedly fell in May, the second consecutive monthly decline, according to a report from the 
Conference Board. The Conference Board's Consumer Confidence Index slipped to 117.9, down from 119.4 in 
April. Economists expected a reading in the neighborhood of 119.5.      
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair FY17 Profit Down; Says Cautiously Guides Profit Growth In FY18
Ryanair FY17 Profit Down; Says Cautiously Guides Profit Growth In FY18
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 10:16 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 537 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Shares of Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) were losing around 2 percent in the 
early morning trading in London after the Irish no-frills airline Tuesday said it is cautiously guiding a profit increase 
in fiscal 2018 after reporting weak profit in fiscal 2017. The latest year profit was hurt by the absence of prior year's 
gain, while revenues increased with strong traffic growth.  Ryanair added that its Board has approved a further 600 
million euros share buyback.  For the year, profit before tax was 1.47 billion euros, down from 1.72 billion euros a 
year ago. 
Profit - all attributable to equity holders of parent- was 1.32 billion euros or 104.64 euro cents per share for the year. 
This was compared to the last year's 1.56 billion euros or 115.63 euro cents per share that included an exceptional 
accounting gain of 317.5 million euros on the sale of Aer Lingus shareholding.  Excluding the gain, the previous 
year's pre-tax profit was 1.40 billion euros and net profit was 1.24 billion euros.  Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary 
stated that the results were achieved despite difficult trading conditions caused by a series of security events at 
European cities, a switch of charter capacity from North Africa, Turkey and Egypt to mainland Europe, and a sharp 
decline in Sterling following the June 2016 Brexit vote.  Fiscal year total operating revenues from continuing 
operations were 6.65 billion euros, 2 percent higher than 6.54 billion euros a year ago.  Scheduled revenues 
declined 2 percent to 4.87 billion euros, while ancillary revenue grew 13 percent to 1.8 billion euros, and accounted 
for 27 percent of total revenues.   The company said the combination of a 13 percent cut in average fares to 41 
euros, coupled with Year 3 of the 'Always Getting Better' program delivered 13 percent traffic growth to 120 million 
customers, and a load factor of 94 percent.   Unit costs fell by 11 percent, while ex-fuel costs were down 5 percent.   
Further, the company noted that it created over 1,000 new positions in 2017, and will create at least another 1,000 
new jobs again in fiscal 2018.   Looking forward, Ryanair said it is cautiously guiding an 8 percent increase in fiscal 
2018 net profit to a range of 1.40 billion euros to 1.45 billion euros. The outlook reflects the risk of negative Brexit 
developments, or any repeat of previous year's security events at European cities, which could damage consumer 
confidence, close-in bookings, and the announced fiscal 2018 guidance.  The company further said it has raised 
medium term guidance for ancillary sales to 30 percent of total revenues by March 2020, so it is well on track to 
achieve this target.  The company also said it expects 'load factor active' policy will grow traffic 8 percent to 130 
million.  Ryanair also expects fiscal 2018 average fares will decline by 5 percent to 7 percent due to weaker 
Ryanair FY17 Profit Down; Says Cautiously Guides Profit Growth In FY18
Sterling, and continuing excess capacity in Europe. Ancillary revenue per customer will likely be flat.  The company 
further projects fuel bill will fall by 70 million euros in fiscal 2018. Ex-fuel unit cost is expected to fall by 1 percent.  In 
London, Ryanair shares were trading at 17.74 euros, down 1.50 percent.      
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair seeking 'firepower' from extra aircraft; Ryanair is seeking two to three extra additional aircraft to give it 
"more firepower" as it seeks to take advan....
Ryanair seeking 'firepower' from extra aircraft; Ryanair is seeking two to 
three extra additional aircraft to give it "more firepower" as it seeks to take 
advantage of "various opportunities in the market" in Europe, finance chief 
Neil Sorahan has indicated.
Flight International
May 30, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 315 words
Body
Ryanair is seeking two to three extra additional aircraft to give it "more firepower" as it seeks to take advantage of 
"various opportunities in the market" in Europe, finance chief Neil Sorahan has indicated.
Speaking at a media briefing in London today, Sorahan said the budget carrier was in talks with Boeing to 
potentially order more aircraft "at the right price" and was also seeking to extend the leases on three aircraft in 2018 
and 10 in 2019.
Sorahan says these moves are intended to "make sure we have got the capacity" for a number of initiatives, 
including the setting-up of charter airline "Ryanair Sun" in Poland, and to provide "flexibility as we see more growth 
opportunities around Europe on the back of the restructuring that's going in places like Germany, in Italy, down in 
Portugal, Poland and elsewhere".
Ryanair is receiving 50 new aircraft this year, but Sorahan says there will be a "slowdown in deliveries" ahead of the 
arrival of its first 737 Max aircraft in autumn 2019.
With this in mind, the Dublin-headquartered airline is deferring the sale of some older aircraft in order to maintain a 
fleet of 585 aircraft. As the first Max orders arrive, aircraft sales will accelerate, he adds.
Sorahan says Ryanair has little appetite to acquire aircraft from restructuring airlines such as Air Berlin or Alitalia, 
unless there was a "fire sale" of their assets, given that "we buy our aircraft for such a good price from Boeing".
He says that while he expects Alitalia to "come out the other side" of its administration process, even if the Italian 
carrier's leased narrowbody fleet were to be returned to their lessors they would retain their value given demand in 
eastern Europe and Asia.
Ryanair seeking 'firepower' from extra aircraft; Ryanair is seeking two to three extra additional aircraft to give it 
"more firepower" as it seeks to take advan....
Flight Fleets Analyzer shows that Ryanair has orders for 65 737-800s and 100 Max 8s on order, and has 563 
aircraft currently in its inventory, excluding three Bombardier Learjet 45s.
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
BA could have seen computer chaos coming
BA could have seen computer chaos coming
City A.M.
May 30, 2017 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 22
Length: 658 words
Byline: Willem Marx
Body
BRITISH Airways enjoyed record operating profits in 2016, thanks to increased passenger numbers, low fuel prices 
and the post-Brexit referendum collapse of sterling. But from a cost perspective, the airline's greatest single line 
item - apart from aviation fuel - remained its staff, accounting for roughly a quarter of total operating expenditures.
Nobody should be surprised then that the company sought to improve its margins by reducing headcount, or - as 
the airline euphemistically describes it - embarking on "a series of transformation proposals to develop a more 
efficient and cost effective structure".
But as the chaos of the last few days has shown, BA's decision to spend £124m on severance packages for 
hundreds of staff last year seems not - at least in the short term - to have been money well spent. An ever 
increasing number of the firm's IT systems have been subcontracted out to third party companies, many of them 
overseas. And that move has prompted the airline employees' union, the GMB, to blame this weekend's computer 
outage and subsequent PR debacle on BA's decision to axe and outsource British IT jobs over the past 12 months.
BA has previously admitted that the failure of a critical computer system could result in lost revenue, since it 
depends so heavily on its IT systems for so many of its business processes. But mitigation factors like disaster 
recovery and continuity arrangements seemed to fall woefully short following Saturday's computer outage. And this 
is not the first time in recent months that IT systems have failed at the airline. In September "patchy" check-in 
systems at Heathrow and Gatwick caused significant flight delays and forced travellers on several continents to 
queue for hours at a time.
There are of course several reasons that passengers choose a particular airline to get them from A to B, chief 
among them price, safety and customer service. But reliability is a major factor too, which is why British Airways 
BA could have seen computer chaos coming
was more than happy last year to highlight as an achievement the fact that it managed more on-time departures 
from London airports than its major competitors EasyJet and Ryanair.
Now the self-proclaimed world's favourite airline has lost a lot of fans and goodwill - in the UK and beyond. Airline 
passengers understandably want a commitment from their carrier that they will arrive at their destination on time, 
with all their belongings, and without major inconvenience.
That's why a premium brand like BA fears the fallout from major screw-ups like Saturday's not only for the short-
term financial ramifications, but also for the long-term damage it can have on perceived reliability.
Chief Executive Alex Cruz replaced Keith Williams just over a year ago, and soon after he introduced a five year 
plan for the company that he claimed would lower the legacy airline's cost base but improve customer experience 
and invest in technology to make flight schedules more "resilient."
British Airways sets a lot of store by its brand reputation, and by its own admission any erosion of that brand could 
"ultimately affect future revenue and profitability". Shares in parent company IAG opened lower in Madrid on 
Monday, despite attempts by Cruz to mollify disgruntled passengers with an online video message and the airline's 
insistence that flight schedules would return to normal within days. IAG's chief financial officer must have been 
counting his lucky stars for the bank holiday, since it spared BA's UK stock an almost certain pummelling in London 
trading.
But there's no doubt investors will be watching the stock today for any turbulence that might indicate clouds on the 
horizon. BA introduced a new motto in 2011: To Fly, To Serve. Most of its aircraft may now be back in the air, but 
this latest mishap has served neither its customers nor its shareholders particularly well.
£ Willem Marx is a reporter at CNBC.
The selfproclaimed world's favourite airline has lost a lot of fans
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
IAG / British Airways : high flyer, high wire
IAG/British Airways: high flyer, high wire
Financial Times (London, England)
May 30, 2017 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 12
Length: 385 words
Body
British Airways had no right to mess up the journeys of many thousands of Britons during a holiday period. That 
prerogative has traditionally belonged to striking French air-traffic controllers. Nevertheless, the flagship company of 
International Airlines Group cancelled an estimated 600 flights to and from London airports over the bank holiday 
weekend. The debacle suggests cost cuts by Willie Walsh , chief executive of IAG, have passed through fat into 
flesh and bone.
The group, never guilty of public oversharing, has shed little light on its systems breakdown. A power failure has 
been blamed. This is puzzling. Most businesses with critical IT have back-up generators for their back-up 
generators. A similar meltdown at Delta Air Lines in the US last April put rivals on notice to check their own 
vulnerabilities.
Delta was left with costs of $100m. BA faces a bill for the same amount in euros, according to Citigroup estimates. 
That represents a modest 5.2 per cent of forecast 2017 profits before tax, hence a dip of just 2.4 per cent in IAG's 
dual-listed shares in Madrid yesterday.
The stock would deserve to fall further if glitches recur. RBC warns of potential for an "annuity cost". Helpfully so: 
deferential stock market analysts tend to keep mum when "one-off" failures are an annual event at powerful 
companies. Last year, a glitch grounded Vueling, a low-cost IAG airline where BA boss Alex Cruz previously 
worked.
IAG / British Airways : high flyer, high wire
A common delusion of all market watchers is that cost cutting costs nothing beyond such explicit expenses as 
redundancy payments. In reality, there is always an efficient frontier between costs and profits. The irascible Mr 
Walsh has done a good job in reducing legacy overheads at BA and Iberia, two flag-carriers heavily burdened with 
them. The operating margin has risen from zero to 11.8 per cent since the 2011 merger.
Improvements will now be harder to extract without damaging competitiveness. The margin is only expected to 
widen another percentage point by 2019, according to S&P CIQ estimates. This depends on sales growing steadily. 
BA's protected slots at Heathrow are a help. The growth of low-cost rivals such as Ryanair is a hindrance. Walking 
a high wire, Mr Walsh cannot regularly afford to strand his customers, even if Mr Cruz carries the can for it this time.
Load-Date: May 29, 2017
End of Document
Regaining altitude will not be easy for BA THE CITY VIEW
Regaining altitude will not be easy for BA; THE CITY VIEW
City A.M.
May 30, 2017 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 374 words
Body
BRITISH Airways is no stranger to crisis. The shambolic opening of Heathrow Terminal 5 in 2008 was a selfinflicted 
disaster, and 2010's volcanic ash cloud, which grounded European airlines for weeks, cost the company dearly. 
Weathering storms is part and parcel of the aviation industry. This year alone, the sector has endured United 
Airlines' passenger-dragging fiasco, mass cancellations at Delta Air Lines, the US' laptop ban and Trump's 
restrictions on travel from some majority-Muslim countries.
But many analysts believe the bank holiday weekend's widespread cancellations on BA's network, the result of an 
IT outage, represent a new nadir for the flagcarrier, with considerable impact to its reputation. As Damian Brewer, 
an analyst with RBC Capital Markets, said in a note: "It is tempting but increasingly questionable to view this as a 
one-off."
The lack of staff visibility suggested a dearth of empathy " While BA may have not been able to control the IT 
meltdown, it could certainly have coped better with the fallout. The initial lack of staff visibility on the ground 
suggested a dearth of empathy by the airline, according to former Downing Street special adviser and founder of 
consultancy Trafalgar Strategy, Giles Kenningham. Meanwhile, images of thousands of stranded passengers 
coursed through social media.
The latest buffeting comes as BA, headed by cost-cutter Alex Cruz, faces increasing competition on lucrative 
transatlantic routes from rivals such as Norwegian. Data out last week on annual seat capacity revealed just how far 
BA's star has fallen in a world where the lines between full service carriers and budget airlines have blurred. In 
OAG's rankings, American Airlines came out top with 250,762,625 available seats, followed by fellow US carriers 
Delta, Southwest and United. Ryanair roared to fifth place with 126,503,18, nosing well ahead of EASYJET 
(82,644,804) at number nine, and BA (61,978,149), at number 15. It will not be easy for BA to pull up and regain 
altitude, but the airline should start by putting customer service back at the heart of its offering. That requires 
investment and slicker communication, not cost-cutting and stonewalling.
Regaining altitude will not be easy for BA THE CITY VIEW
The lack of staff visibility suggested a dearth of empathy
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Fiscal FY Earnings Meet Views, Revenues Slightly Shy
Ryanair Fiscal FY Earnings Meet Views, Revenues Slightly Shy
MT Newswires Live Briefs
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 6:31 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 96 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY), a budget passenger airline, reported Tuesday fiscal full year net profit of EUR1.05 
($1.17) per share, up from EUR0.93 per share in the prior year period, in line with the average estimate from 
analysts polled by Capital IQ.
Revenues in the year ended March 31 rose 2% from a year ago to EUR6.65 billion, coming in slightly shy of the 
EUR6.66 billion estimate. 
For fiscal 2018, the company expects net profit to range from EUR1.40 billion to EUR1.45 billion, compared to the 
EUR1.45 billion estimate. 
Price: 105.38, Change: -0.93, Percent Change: -0.87
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Says in Fleet Review Talks With Boeing
Ryanair Says in Fleet Review Talks With Boeing
MT Newswires Live Briefs
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 5:22 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 122 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) said Tuesday it is currently engaged in a fleet review with Boeing (BA) as it said it is 
currently juggling "more opportunities for 2018 and 2019 than our existing fleet growth can accommodate."
The airline said it is taking up opportunities to accelerate fleet growth in 2018 and 2019 by extending 10 of its 
planned lease returns in those years and "adding selectively to its current order where Boeing may have some 
delivery opportunities over the next 24 months. "
"As competitor airlines undergo deep restructuring, we are aware of the need to have additional short haul aircraft 
to respond quickly as these unique growth opportunities arise," Ryanair said.
Price: 107.00, Change: +0.69, Percent Change: +0.65
Load-Date: May 31, 2017
End of Document
Ariel Investments LLC Has $3.85 Million Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Ariel Investments LLC Has $3.85 Million Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 12:28 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 706 words
Byline: Latisha Jones
Body
May 29, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ariel Investments LLC reduced 
its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 40.8% during the first quarter, according to its 
most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The firm owned 46,417 shares of the 
transportation company's stock after selling 31,934 shares during the period. Ariel Investments LLC's holdings in 
Ryanair Holdings plc were worth $3,852,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  Other hedge funds also recently 
made changes to their positions in the company. 
Janus Capital Management LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 126.4% in the fourth quarter. 
Janus Capital Management LLC now owns 3,101,381 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$258,254,000 after buying an additional 1,731,481 shares during the period. JPMorgan Chase .... raised its stake in 
shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 32.9% in the first quarter. JPMorgan Chase .... now owns 1,661,275 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $137,853,000 after buying an additional 411,479 shares during the 
period. Russell Investments Group Ltd. bought a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth 
quarter valued at about $32,424,000. Allianz Asset Management AG raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings 
plc by 59.9% in the fourth quarter. Allianz Asset Management AG now owns 836,774 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $69,670,000 after buying an additional 313,416 shares during the period. Finally, 
Arrowgrass Capital Partners US LP bought a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter 
valued at about $17,817,000. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 42.80% of the company's stock. 
https://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/05/29/ariel-investments-llc-has-3-85-million-stake-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-
ryaay.html.  A number of equities analysts recently weighed in on RYAAY shares. Zacks Investment Research[1] 
upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $109.00 price target on the 
stock in a research report on Saturday, May 6th. Deutsche Bank AG upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from 
a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research report on Monday, February 13th. Kepler Capital Markets lowered 
shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Friday, February 10th. 
Finally, ValuEngine[2] lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research 
report on Wednesday, May 24th. One analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have assigned a hold rating 
and seven have assigned a buy rating to the company. Ryanair Holdings plc has an average rating of 'Hold' and an 
average price target of $99.50.  Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a 
holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline 
serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and 
Ariel Investments LLC Has $3.85 Million Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air 
passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food and merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily 
summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with 
MarketBeat.com's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            https://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair%20Holdings%20plc 
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair reports lower annual profit, provides outlook for fiscal 2018
Ryanair reports lower annual profit, provides outlook for fiscal 2018
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 128 words
Highlight: Ryanair Holdings PLC has reported that profit attributable to equity holders of parent for year ended 
March 31, 2017 was EUR1.32 billion, or 104.64 cents per diluted share, compared to E1.56 billion, or 115.63 cents 
per diluted share, for the year ended March 31, 2016.
Body
Total operating revenues - continuing operationsfor the year ended March 31, 2017 were E6.65 billion, compared to 
E6,54 billion for the year ended March 31, 2016.Operating profit - continuing operations for the year ended March 
31, 2017 was E1.53 billion, compared to E1.46 billion for the year ended March 31, 2016.For fiscal 2018, the 
company expects net profitto be in the range of E1.40 billionto E1.45 billion.Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary said: 
"We are pleased to report a 6% increase in PAT to E1.32 billion, despite difficult trading conditions in FY17 caused 
by a series of security events at European cities, a switch of charter capacity from North Africa, Turkey and Egypt to 
mainland Europe, and a sharp decline in Sterling following the June 2016 Brexit vote."
Load-Date: June 24, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair says it can weather Brexit issues and hit annual profit targets
Ryanair says it can weather Brexit issues and hit annual profit targets
City A.M.
May 30, 2017 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 192 words
Byline: REBECCA SMITH
Body
DESPITE a series of warnings over Brexit turbulence, Ryanair is due to post solid full-year results today.
Analysts are forecasting net income of around (EURO)1.32bn (£1.15bn), in line with the guidance range, for the 12 
months to the end of March. The Irish budget carrier is expected to unveil full-year sales of (EURO)6.6bn too.
Robin Byde, analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald, said the airline is on course for record passengers, "despite stern 
warnings from the company about pre-Brexit trading".
Beaufort Securities this month said the key distinguishing factor for the airline is "its ability to continue lowering its 
unit costs, while delivering the lowest passenger costs among its EU peers, at the time of traffic growth and when 
competitors are forecasting flat or rising costs".
The results come despite battling headwinds such as the slump in sterling in the wake of the Brexit vote. Chief 
executive Michael O'Leary has been a critic of Brexit and wants to pivot growth away from the UK.
In March the airline said there was a possibility there could be a period after March 2019 of no flights between 
Europe and the UK "in the absence of a bilateral deal".
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
BA Debacle Puts Spotlight on Airlines' Old IT Systems, Cuts
BA Debacle Puts Spotlight on Airlines' Old IT Systems, Cuts
Newstex Blogs
Voice of America
May 30, 2017 Tuesday 6:46 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 600 words
Body
May 30, 2017( Voice of America: http://www.voanews.com Delivered by Newstex)  The catastrophic IT failure at 
British Airways that ruined travel plans for 75,000 people has raised questions about some older airlines' focus on 
costs to the detriment of investment in new computer systems. As British Airways resumed full service Tuesday, 
shares in its parent company, International Airlines Group, dropped 3 percent as investors appeared to worry that 
the company's quality of service may have been undermined by recent efforts to save money. Disaster struck on 
Saturday, when the company's computer systems went down and there was no functioning back-up. The airline 
cancelled all flights and only managed to resume full service on Tuesday. "Although cost cutting has been good for 
the share price in the last year, it will come back to bite IAG if it stops them from doing what they are supposed to 
do: Fly passengers to their destinations," said Kathleen Brooks, the research director at City Index. IAG has been 
battling tough competition, even as it has faced pressure on its earnings from a weaker pound following Britain's 
decision to leave the European Union. 
The company issued a profit warning following the Brexit vote nearly a year ago. Cost pressures aggravated an 
already complicated situation. Renewing IT systems is complex, time-consuming and expensive   a factor that 
prompts many companies to put it off as long as possible, said Loizos Heracleous, a professor of strategy at 
Warwick Business School. The problem with IT systems is recurring across the industry, particularly among 
established airlines. In August, Delta Air lines cancelled hundreds of flights when a power outage likewise knocked 
out its computer systems worldwide. Airlines face challenges with their IT systems also due to linkages across their 
systems. There's further demand on the system when companies consolidate   as has been the case among 
airlines   since "IT issues get heightened and any vulnerabilities are exposed." Such troubles give an advantage to 
newer airlines such as Ryanair, a cost-cutting BA rival that focuses on short haul budget flights. "The ability to set 
up an airline from scratch by-passes a lot of the legacy issues, because you can go for state-of-the-art systems," 
Heracleous said. "Newer airlines can also invest in IT systems that are more easily upgradeable and scaleable. An 
airline such as Ryanair, that is also financially successful, has more leeway to divert needed resources towards 
upgrading its IT systems." Capitalizing on BA's troubles, Ryanair said it had seen "strong bookings" over the 
weekend. Its Twitter account rubbed salt into the wound with tweets that poked fun and added the hashtag 
``ShouldHaveFlownRyanair.'' The company's chief marketing officer, Kenny Jacobs, admitted on the BBC "we had 
a bit of fun on social media." "We don't take social media seriously but we do take IT very seriously and that is why 
we've never had an outage," he told the BBC. Ryanair posted a 6 percent increase in annual profits Tuesday to 1.3 
billion euros ($1.4 billion) despite "difficult trading conditions," caused by terror attacks in European cities and a 
sharp decline in the British pound. BA, meanwhile, is counting up the cost of an IT debacle that some have 
BA Debacle Puts Spotlight on Airlines' Old IT Systems, Cuts
estimated could run into the tens of millions. There are also all those news clips of passengers swearing they will 
never fly the airline again. "The whole sorry episode has undeniably put a dent in BA's reputation for delivering a 
premium service," said George Salmon, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown. 
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Expected to Post Earnings of $0.24 Per Share
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Expected to Post Earnings of $0.24 Per Share
Watchlist News
May 29, 2017 Monday 10:31 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 755 words
Byline: Nicole Kennedy
Body
May 29, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Wall Street brokerages 
predict that Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) will report $0.24 earnings per share for the current quarter, 
Zacks Investment Research[1] reports. Zero analysts have provided estimates for Ryanair Holdings plc's earnings. 
Ryanair Holdings plc posted earnings per share of $0.25 in the same quarter last year, which suggests a negative 
year over year growth rate of 4%. The firm is scheduled to report its next earnings results on Monday, May 29th. 
On average, analysts expect that Ryanair Holdings plc will report full year earnings of $5.85 per share for the 
current fiscal year, with EPS estimates ranging from $5.78 to $5.92. For the next year, analysts anticipate that the 
firm will post earnings of $7.07 per share, with EPS estimates ranging from $6.38 to $7.76. Zacks' earnings per 
share averages are a mean average based on a survey of sell-side research analysts that cover Ryanair Holdings 
plc.Several analysts have issued reports on the company. Zacks Investment Research[2] upgraded Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $109.00 price objective on the stock in a report on 
Saturday, May 6th. Deutsche Bank AG upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a 
report on Monday, February 13th. ValuEngine[3] downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' 
rating in a report on Wednesday, May 24th. Finally, Kepler Capital Markets downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from 
a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Friday, February 10th. One investment analyst has rated the stock with 
a sell rating, five have assigned a hold rating and seven have assigned a buy rating to the company. The stock 
currently has an average rating of 'Hold' and a consensus target price of $99.50.  A number of hedge funds have 
recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. Syntal Capital Partners LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair Holdings 
plc during the fourth quarter valued at about $565,000. Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft FI bought a new stake in 
Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter valued at about $212,000. Cavalier Investments LLC increased its 
stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.2% in the fourth quarter. Cavalier Investments LLC now owns 3,867 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $322,000 after buying an additional 44 shares during the last quarter. 
Institutional Capital LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter valued at about 
$12,627,000. Finally, Everett Capital Advisors UK LLP bought a new stake in Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth 
quarter valued at about $5,037,000. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 42.80% of the company's 
stock. 
 
 
https://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-expected-to-post-earnings-of-0-24-per-
share/1316652.html.  Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding 
company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving 
short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. 
Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Expected to Post Earnings of $0.24 Per Share
service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food 
and merchandise. Get a free copy of the Zacks research report on Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)[4] For more 
information about research offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com[5] Receive News ...tings for 
Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news 
and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily 
email newsletter[6]. [ 1]:            https://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 2]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=zrmodule...D=AMERBMN_CONTENT_ZER...p_rpt_name_check=
skip_rpt_name_check...YAAY [ 5]:            https://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 [ 6]:       
     https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair+Holdings+plc 
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Expected to Post Earnings of $0.24 Per Share
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Expected to Post Earnings of $0.24 Per Share
American Banking and Market News
May 29, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 585 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Wall Street brokerages predict that Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) will report 
$0.24 earnings per share for the current quarter,            Zacks Investment Research  reports. Zero analysts have 
provided estimates for Ryanair Holdings plc's earnings. Ryanair Holdings plc posted earnings per share of $0.25 in 
the same quarter last year, which suggests a negative year over year growth rate of 4%. The firm is scheduled to 
report its next earnings results  on Monday, May 29th. 
On average, analysts expect that Ryanair Holdings plc will report full year earnings of $5.85 per share for the 
current fiscal year, with EPS estimates ranging from $5.78 to $5.92. For the next year, analysts anticipate that the 
firm will post earnings of $7.07 per share, with EPS estimates ranging from $6.38 to $7.76. Zacks' earnings per 
share averages are a mean average based on a survey of sell-side research analysts that cover Ryanair Holdings 
plc. 
Several analysts have issued reports on the company. Zacks Investment Research  upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc 
from a "sell" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $109.00 price objective on the stock in a report on Saturday, May 6th. 
Deutsche Bank AG upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Monday, 
February 13th.            ValuEngine  downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a 
report on Wednesday, May 24th. Finally, Kepler Capital Markets downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" 
rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Friday, February 10th. One investment analyst  has rated the stock with a sell 
rating, five have assigned  a hold rating and seven have assigned  a buy rating to the company. The stock currently 
has an average rating of "Hold" and a consensus target price of $99.50. 
A number of hedge funds have recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. Syntal Capital Partners LLC bought a 
new stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter valued at about $565,000.  Commerzbank 
Aktiengesellschaft FI bought a new stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter valued at about 
$212,000.  Cavalier Investments LLC increased its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.2% in the fourth quarter. 
Cavalier Investments LLC now owns 3,867 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $322,000 after 
buying an additional 44 shares during the last quarter.  Institutional Capital LLC bought a new stake in  Ryanair 
Holdings plc during the fourth quarter valued at about $12,627,000.  Finally, Everett Capital Advisors UK LLP 
bought a new stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter valued at about $5,037,000. Hedge funds and 
other institutional investors own  42.80% of the company's stock.   
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Expected to Post Earnings of $0.24 Per Share
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Get a free copy of the Zacks research report on Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) 
For more information about research offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com 
Load-Date: June 21, 2017
End of Document
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
May 29, 2017 Monday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 1517 words
Byline: Rachel More, +61 2 9322 8065, <, international@dpa.com, ;
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the weekly planner please call or email the dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-
Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 8064 Email: 
international@dpa.com
MONDAY, MAY 29
PARIS: French President Emmanuel Macron to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin.
BRITAIN: Prime Minister Theresa May and opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn face televised interview ahead 
of election.
BERLIN: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi travels to Germany to meet Chancellor Angela Merkel (until May 30).
WASHINGTON: 100th anniversary of birthday of assassinated president John F Kennedy.
WASHINGTON: Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc leaves for US visit (until May 31).
QUEBEC: Student suspect in Quebec mosque attack due in court.
WELLINGTON: Formal welcome for sacred Maori remains returned to New Zealand's Museum Te Papa from the 
Karolinska Institutet in Sweden.
ISTANBUL: Verdict expected in trial of two brothers accused of murdering their sister in so-called honour killing.
EVEREST: Tenzing-Hillary Everest marathon, the world's highest marathon, kicks off (until May 30).
BERGEN, NORWAY: Nordic prime ministers hold an informal meeting with terrorism on the agenda (until May 30).
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA: US observes Memorial Day in honour of soldiers who died in service.
ISTANBUL: Istanbul Music Festival begins (until June 21).
STOCKHOLM: German author and illustrator Wolf Erlbruch to accept the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award for 
literature for children.
CANCUN, MEXICO: World Water Congress takes place (until June 3).
UN: International Day of UN Peacekeepers.
BRUSSELS: EU Green Week takes place (until June 2).
BRUSSELS: EU Competitiveness Council meets (until May 30).
BERLIN: Think20 Summit takes place, bringing together research institutes and think tanks from the G20 countries 
(until May 30).
__________________________________________________
TUESDAY, MAY 30
KUALA LUMPUR: Indonesian and Vietnamese women charged with the killing of Kim Jong Nam to appear at 
magistrate's court, with judge expected to transfer case to high court.
TOKYO: Japanese unemployment rate data released for April.
MUNICH: Hearing scheduled in NSU far-right terrorism trial.
DRESDEN, GERMANY: Hearing scheduled in "Gruppe Freital" far-right terrorism trial.
MOSCOW: Bolshoi Theatre hosts gala-concert to present the choreography and dance awards Prix Benois de la 
Danse.
STUTTGART: German holding company Porsche SE conducts annual general meeting.
BRUSSELS: EU ministers meet to discuss research and space.
BERLIN: "Baywatch" to hit European cinemas.
DUBLIN: RyanAir to release annual results.
BRUSSELS: European Commission likely to propose legislation on volunteer work.
CHINA: Dragon Boat Festival
INTERNATIONAL: Jewish festival of Shavuot is observed (until June 1).
LAAGE, GERMANY: Representatives of all OSCE member states to visit German military airfield.
BERLIN: German Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development Gerd Muller holds panel discussion 
on development in Africa.
__________________________________________________
WEDNESDAY, MAY 31
WASHINGTON: Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc meets US President Donald Trump at the White 
House.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
LUXEMBOURG: Eurostat releases flash estimate of Eurozone inflation rate for May 2017.
LUXEMBOURG: Eurostat releases unemployment data for April 2017.
MADRID: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets with Spanish President Mariano Rajoy.
BRUSSELS: EU Commission presents reform ideas for the Eurozone.
VIENNA: Initial inquiries into Austrian Eurofighter deal begin, after Austria accused Airbus and Eurofighter of 
misleading the Defence Ministry.
TOKYO: Japanese industrial production data released for April.
BEIJING: China's National Bureau of Statistics releases Purchasing Managers Index for May 2017.
MELBOURNE: Class-action lawsuit against Australian government by refugees held on Manus Island set to begin.
WIESBADEN, GERMANY: Monthly retail figures for Germany released for previous month.
BERLIN: Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders presents his new book "Our Revolution" at Berlin's Freie Universitaet 
university.
WASHINGTON: Organization of American States discusses Venezuela crisis.
DRESDEN, GERMANY: Hearing scheduled in "Gruppe Freital" far-right terrorism trial.
WELLINGTON: State visit by Australian Governor-General Sir Peter Cosgrove to New Zealand (until June 3).
DALLAS, TEXAS: ExxonMobil holds annual general meeting.
BRUSSELS: EU Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) releases annual report for 2016.
INTERNATIONAL: World No Tobacco Day.
INTERNATIONAL: World MS Day.
BARCELONA: Music festival Primavera Sound takes place (until June 4).
__________________________________________________
THURSDAY, JUNE 1
BRUSSELS: EU-China Summit takes place with China represented by Prime Minister Li Keqiang (until June 2).
ST PETERSBURG: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi visits Russia for bilateral talks with Russian President 
Vladimir Putin.
KARLSRUHE, GERMANY: Expected verdict in copyright proceedings over two-second Kraftwerk beat.
KOUROU: Expected launch of an Ariane-Rocket at the European Spaceport.
LONDON: Start of the Sundance Film Festival (until June 4).
HELSINKI: Finland celebrates 100 years of independence.
NAIROBI: Kenya celebrates its independence with Madaraka Day.
LONDON: International think tank Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP) presents its "Global Peace Index" report.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
WASHINGTON: Presidential waiver on law requiring the US embassy to relocate from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem is set 
to expire.
MUNICH: Verdict expected in multimillion-euro lawsuit against German record company Arista Music by Elvis 
Presley Enterprises.
WASHINGTON: LGBT Pride month in the US (until June 30).
LONDON: 50 years since the Beatles album "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" was released.
ST PETERSBURG: St Petersburg International Economic Forum takes place, with President Vladimir Putin 
expected to attend (until June 3).
OXFORD, BRITAIN: "Raphael: The Drawings" exhibition opens at the Ashmolean Museum of Art and Archeology 
(until September 3, 2017).
LUXEMBOURG: European Court of Justice rules on Austrian environmental protection case after fisherman 
complained about hydroelectric power plant.
NEW YORK: Bolivia takes over rotating UN Security Council presidency for June.
SYDNEY: Red Cross chief for Papua New Guinea briefs journalists on political situation ahead of June/July 
elections there.
BRUSSELS: Brussels Economic Forum takes place.
BERLIN: European Biomethane Conference takes place with focus on renewable energy.
LOS ANGELES: 80th birthday of US actor Morgan Freeman.
LONDON: 70th birthday of Rolling Stones guitarist Ronnie Wood.
LONDON: 70th birthday of British actor Jonathan Pryce.
INTERNATIONAL: Global Day of Parents.
__________________________________________________
FRIDAY, JUNE 2
BAIKONUR, KAZAKHSTAN: French astronaut Thomas Pesquet returns to Earth after spending 6 months on the 
International Space Station.
BRITAIN: Prime Minister Theresa May and opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn appear on panel show 
Question Time in election campaign special.
UN: UN Security Council elects five new members for 2018 and 2019 terms.
WASHINGTON: Labour Department releases report on employment situation for May, including unemployment rate 
and payroll data.
WOLFSBURG, GERMANY: Bill Murray performs in premiere of "New Worlds" tour with chamber musicians.
DUBLIN: Deadline for Ireland's ruling Fine Gael party to choose new leader.
PHNOM PENH: Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen to participate in election parade.
BERLIN: Albanian President Bujar Nishani visits Germany.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
BERLIN: The international Y20 youth conferences brings together young leaders from the G20 countries (until June 
6).
SINGAPORE: The Asia Security Summit, the IISS Shangri-La Dialogue 2017, takes place (until June 4).
NEW YORK: First exhibition in the US by French author Michel Houellebecq (until August 4).
LONDON: "Gay UK: Love, Law and Liberty" opens at British Museum (until September 19).
BERLIN: 50th anniversary of shooting of German student protester Benno Ohnesorg by police officer Karl-Heinz 
Kurras.
* INTERNATIONAL: International Sex Workers' Day, historically used to highlight poor working conditions.
__________________________________________________
SATURDAY JUNE 3
VALLETTA: Malta goes to the polls in general elections.
PARIS: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold talks with French President Emmanuel Macron.
RIGA: Communal elections takes place in Latvia.
* LJUBLJANA: The presidents of the Balkan states meet at Slovenia's Brdo Castle.
CARDIFF: Champions League final, Juventus v Real Madrid.
WASHINGTON: First anniversary of the death of US boxer Muhammad Ali.
__________________________________________________
SUNDAY, JUNE 4
PHNOM PENH: Communal elections in Cambodia.
ZAGREB: Second round of municipal elections in Croatia.
DRESDEN, GERMANY: Bill Murray performs at Dresden Music Festival as part of "New Worlds" tour with chamber 
musicians.
CANCUN, MEXICO: International Air Transport Association holds annual meeting (until June 6).
NEW YORK: World Ocean Festival.
INTERNATIONAL: International Day of Innocent Children Victims of Aggression.
Load-Date: May 29, 2017
End of Document
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
May 29, 2017 Monday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 1517 words
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the weekly planner please call or email the dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-
Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 8064 Email: 
international@dpa.com
MONDAY, MAY 29
PARIS: French President Emmanuel Macron to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin.
BRITAIN: Prime Minister Theresa May and opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn face televised interview ahead 
of election.
BERLIN: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi travels to Germany to meet Chancellor Angela Merkel (until May 30).
WASHINGTON: 100th anniversary of birthday of assassinated president John F Kennedy.
WASHINGTON: Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc leaves for US visit (until May 31).
QUEBEC: Student suspect in Quebec mosque attack due in court.
WELLINGTON: Formal welcome for sacred Maori remains returned to New Zealand's Museum Te Papa from the 
Karolinska Institutet in Sweden.
ISTANBUL: Verdict expected in trial of two brothers accused of murdering their sister in so-called honour killing.
EVEREST: Tenzing-Hillary Everest marathon, the world's highest marathon, kicks off (until May 30).
BERGEN, NORWAY: Nordic prime ministers hold an informal meeting with terrorism on the agenda (until May 30).
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA: US observes Memorial Day in honour of soldiers who died in service.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
ISTANBUL: Istanbul Music Festival begins (until June 21).
STOCKHOLM: German author and illustrator Wolf Erlbruch to accept the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award for 
literature for children.
CANCUN, MEXICO: World Water Congress takes place (until June 3).
UN: International Day of UN Peacekeepers.
BRUSSELS: EU Green Week takes place (until June 2).
BRUSSELS: EU Competitiveness Council meets (until May 30).
BERLIN: Think20 Summit takes place, bringing together research institutes and think tanks from the G20 countries 
(until May 30).
__________________________________________________
TUESDAY, MAY 30
KUALA LUMPUR: Indonesian and Vietnamese women charged with the killing of Kim Jong Nam to appear at 
magistrate's court, with judge expected to transfer case to high court.
TOKYO: Japanese unemployment rate data released for April.
MUNICH: Hearing scheduled in NSU far-right terrorism trial.
DRESDEN, GERMANY: Hearing scheduled in "Gruppe Freital" far-right terrorism trial.
MOSCOW: Bolshoi Theatre hosts gala-concert to present the choreography and dance awards Prix Benois de la 
Danse.
STUTTGART: German holding company Porsche SE conducts annual general meeting.
BRUSSELS: EU ministers meet to discuss research and space.
BERLIN: "Baywatch" to hit European cinemas.
DUBLIN: RyanAir to release annual results.
BRUSSELS: European Commission likely to propose legislation on volunteer work.
CHINA: Dragon Boat Festival
INTERNATIONAL: Jewish festival of Shavuot is observed (until June 1).
LAAGE, GERMANY: Representatives of all OSCE member states to visit German military airfield.
BERLIN: German Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development Gerd Muller holds panel discussion 
on development in Africa.
__________________________________________________
WEDNESDAY, MAY 31
WASHINGTON: Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc meets US President Donald Trump at the White 
House.
LUXEMBOURG: Eurostat releases flash estimate of Eurozone inflation rate for May 2017.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
LUXEMBOURG: Eurostat releases unemployment data for April 2017.
MADRID: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets with Spanish President Mariano Rajoy.
BRUSSELS: EU Commission presents reform ideas for the Eurozone.
VIENNA: Initial inquiries into Austrian Eurofighter deal begin, after Austria accused Airbus and Eurofighter of 
misleading the Defence Ministry.
TOKYO: Japanese industrial production data released for April.
BEIJING: China's National Bureau of Statistics releases Purchasing Managers Index for May 2017.
MELBOURNE: Class-action lawsuit against Australian government by refugees held on Manus Island set to begin.
WIESBADEN, GERMANY: Monthly retail figures for Germany released for previous month.
BERLIN: Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders presents his new book "Our Revolution" at Berlin's Freie Universitaet 
university.
WASHINGTON: Organization of American States discusses Venezuela crisis.
DRESDEN, GERMANY: Hearing scheduled in "Gruppe Freital" far-right terrorism trial.
WELLINGTON: State visit by Australian Governor-General Sir Peter Cosgrove to New Zealand (until June 3).
DALLAS, TEXAS: ExxonMobil holds annual general meeting.
BRUSSELS: EU Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) releases annual report for 2016.
INTERNATIONAL: World No Tobacco Day.
INTERNATIONAL: World MS Day.
BARCELONA: Music festival Primavera Sound takes place (until June 4).
__________________________________________________
THURSDAY, JUNE 1
BRUSSELS: EU-China Summit takes place with China represented by Prime Minister Li Keqiang (until June 2).
ST PETERSBURG: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi visits Russia for bilateral talks with Russian President 
Vladimir Putin.
KARLSRUHE, GERMANY: Expected verdict in copyright proceedings over two-second Kraftwerk beat.
KOUROU: Expected launch of an Ariane-Rocket at the European Spaceport.
LONDON: Start of the Sundance Film Festival (until June 4).
HELSINKI: Finland celebrates 100 years of independence.
NAIROBI: Kenya celebrates its independence with Madaraka Day.
LONDON: International think tank Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP) presents its "Global Peace Index" report.
WASHINGTON: Presidential waiver on law requiring the US embassy to relocate from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem is set 
to expire.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
MUNICH: Verdict expected in multimillion-euro lawsuit against German record company Arista Music by Elvis 
Presley Enterprises.
WASHINGTON: LGBT Pride month in the US (until June 30).
LONDON: 50 years since the Beatles album "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" was released.
ST PETERSBURG: St Petersburg International Economic Forum takes place, with President Vladimir Putin 
expected to attend (until June 3).
OXFORD, BRITAIN: "Raphael: The Drawings" exhibition opens at the Ashmolean Museum of Art and Archeology 
(until September 3, 2017).
LUXEMBOURG: European Court of Justice rules on Austrian environmental protection case after fisherman 
complained about hydroelectric power plant.
NEW YORK: Bolivia takes over rotating UN Security Council presidency for June.
SYDNEY: Red Cross chief for Papua New Guinea briefs journalists on political situation ahead of June/July 
elections there.
BRUSSELS: Brussels Economic Forum takes place.
BERLIN: European Biomethane Conference takes place with focus on renewable energy.
LOS ANGELES: 80th birthday of US actor Morgan Freeman.
LONDON: 70th birthday of Rolling Stones guitarist Ronnie Wood.
LONDON: 70th birthday of British actor Jonathan Pryce.
INTERNATIONAL: Global Day of Parents.
__________________________________________________
FRIDAY, JUNE 2
BAIKONUR, KAZAKHSTAN: French astronaut Thomas Pesquet returns to Earth after spending 6 months on the 
International Space Station.
BRITAIN: Prime Minister Theresa May and opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn appear on panel show 
Question Time in election campaign special.
UN: UN Security Council elects five new members for 2018 and 2019 terms.
WASHINGTON: Labour Department releases report on employment situation for May, including unemployment rate 
and payroll data.
WOLFSBURG, GERMANY: Bill Murray performs in premiere of "New Worlds" tour with chamber musicians.
DUBLIN: Deadline for Ireland's ruling Fine Gael party to choose new leader.
PHNOM PENH: Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen to participate in election parade.
BERLIN: Albanian President Bujar Nishani visits Germany.
BERLIN: The international Y20 youth conferences brings together young leaders from the G20 countries (until June 
6).
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
SINGAPORE: The Asia Security Summit, the IISS Shangri-La Dialogue 2017, takes place (until June 4).
NEW YORK: First exhibition in the US by French author Michel Houellebecq (until August 4).
LONDON: "Gay UK: Love, Law and Liberty" opens at British Museum (until September 19).
BERLIN: 50th anniversary of shooting of German student protester Benno Ohnesorg by police officer Karl-Heinz 
Kurras.
* INTERNATIONAL: International Sex Workers' Day, historically used to highlight poor working conditions.
__________________________________________________
SATURDAY JUNE 3
VALLETTA: Malta goes to the polls in general elections.
PARIS: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold talks with French President Emmanuel Macron.
RIGA: Communal elections takes place in Latvia.
* LJUBLJANA: The presidents of the Balkan states meet at Slovenia's Brdo Castle.
CARDIFF: Champions League final, Juventus v Real Madrid.
WASHINGTON: First anniversary of the death of US boxer Muhammad Ali.
__________________________________________________
SUNDAY, JUNE 4
PHNOM PENH: Communal elections in Cambodia.
ZAGREB: Second round of municipal elections in Croatia.
DRESDEN, GERMANY: Bill Murray performs at Dresden Music Festival as part of "New Worlds" tour with chamber 
musicians.
CANCUN, MEXICO: International Air Transport Association holds annual meeting (until June 6).
NEW YORK: World Ocean Festival.
INTERNATIONAL: International Day of Innocent Children Victims of Aggression.
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
Favorable Press Coverage Very Likely to Impact Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Share Price
Favorable Press Coverage Very Likely to Impact Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY) Share Price
American Banking and Market News
May 29, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 453 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo News stories about Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have been trending positive 
this week, according to Alpha One Sentiment Analysis. The research group, a unit of Accern, ranks the sentiment of 
media coverage by monitoring more than twenty million blog and news sources in real time. Alpha One ranks 
coverage of companies on a scale of -1 to 1, with scores nearest to one being the most favorable. Ryanair Holdings 
plc earned a coverage optimism score of 0.33 on Alpha One's scale. Alpha One also gave media stories about the 
transportation company an impact score of 88 out of 100, meaning that recent media coverage is very likely to have 
an impact on the company's share price in the next few days.  
A number of research analysts have commented on RYAAY shares. Bank of America Corp lowered Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a "neutral" rating to an "underperform" rating in a research report on Tuesday, January 3rd. 
Canaccord Genuity started coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Thursday, January 26th. They 
issued a "buy" rating on the stock. Deutsche Bank AG upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a "hold" rating to a "buy" 
rating in a research report on Monday, February 13th. Zacks Investment Research lowered Ryanair Holdings plc 
from a "strong-buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Friday, January 6th. Finally, Barclays PLC  
reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Tuesday, January 10th. Two 
investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, four have assigned  a hold rating and six have assigned  
a buy rating to the company's stock. The company presently has an average rating of "Hold" and an average target 
price of $93.00. 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY ) traded up 0.67% on Friday, hitting $91.93. The stock had a trading 
volume of 225,313 shares. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of $93.53. The firm 
has a market capitalization of $22.68 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.88 and a beta of 0.72. The company's 50 
day moving average is $85.20 and its 200-day moving average is $81.92.  
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Favorable Press Coverage Very Likely to Impact Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Share Price
Load-Date: June 21, 2017
End of Document
BA battles to regain control after second day of chaos Bank holiday misery after IT failure   Disruption set to last 
into the week
BA battles to regain control after second day of chaos;   Bank holiday 
misery after IT failure   Disruption set to last into the week
Financial Times (London, England)
May 29, 2017 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1
Length: 467 words
Byline: Nathalie Thomas and Tanya Powley
Body
British Airways passengers around the world were struck by a second day of cancellations and delays yesterday as 
the airline struggled to regain control after a computer system failure caused chaos during one of the UK's busiest 
travel weekends.
Nearly a third of BA flights departing Heathrow, Britain's busiest airport, had been cancelled by yesterday afternoon, 
while inbound flights from destinations such as New York and Austin, Texas, were also scrapped.
Aviation experts predicted the disruption would spill over into the week as BA fought to recover from the IT crash 
that forced it to cancel all flights out of London on Saturday.
It was one of the worst IT failures to strike a global airline. When Delta Air Lines suffered a similar outage last year, 
2,300 flights were cancelled and delays took three days to clear.
"Coming after a spate of other issues, the bad PR and potential reputational aftermath will probably hit future 
revenues" at BA, which is part of the IAG airlines group, said Damian Brewer, analyst at RBC Capital Markets.
Passengers at Heathrow were forced to wait outside terminals until 90 minutes before their flights yesterday, as 
airport and airline staff desperately sought to deal with the congestion.
BA battles to regain control after second day of chaos Bank holiday misery after IT failure   Disruption set to last 
into the week
"There are huge queues everywhere," said Simon, waiting for his BA flight to Japan. "People are queueing to deal 
with cancelled flights, there's another queue for lost bags, and then there's long queues to get into the terminal."
Yesterday evening, the airline said many of its systems were "back up and we are doing all we can to restore our 
flight -programme".
Alex Cruz, BA chief executive, blamed the outage on a "power supply issue" but the carrier would not say why all of 
its -systems, including its back-up, had failed.
Bill Curtis, senior vice-president at IT analytics firm Cast, questioned why a back-up system had not kicked in. "It 
[the back-up system] should have been on a different power supply with a replicated database. You would usually 
lose a few transactions but not the entire operation of the airline," he said.
The IT meltdown is likely to provoke a fresh storm over cost-cutting at BA, which has come under pressure from 
unions over its decision last year to outsource several hundred IT jobs to specialists supplied by India's Tata 
Consultancy Services.
Mr Cruz, chief executive of budget Spanish carrier Vueling before taking the top job at BA, has been trying to 
overhaul the UK airline's cost structure so it can better compete with low-cost companies such as Ryanair and 
easyJet.
Mr Cruz apologised to stranded passengers but BA's management is likely to face questions over staffing and 
communication, particularly on Saturday when customers complained of a lack of information from airline staff.
Editorial Comment page 10 Counting the cost page 16
Load-Date: May 28, 2017
End of Document
ValuEngine Lowers Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) to Hold
ValuEngine Lowers Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) to Hold
DailyPolitical
May 29, 2017 Monday 2:25 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 762 words
Byline: Patrick Bannon
Body
May 
29, 
2017( 
DailyPolitical: 
http://www.dailypolitical.com/ 
Delivered 
by 
Newstex) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.dailypolitical.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgValuEngine[1] downgraded shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) from a buy rating to a hold rating in a research report report published on 
Wednesday morning. A number of other research firms have also issued reports on RYAAY. 
Zacks Investment Research[2] raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a sell rating to a buy rating and set a $109.00 price 
target on the stock in a report on Saturday, May 6th. Canaccord Genuity assumed coverage on Ryanair Holdings 
plc in a report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a buy rating on the stock. Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a hold rating to a buy rating in a report on Monday, February 13th. Finally, Kepler Capital Markets 
lowered Ryanair Holdings plc from a buy rating to a hold rating in a report on Friday, February 10th. One investment 
analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold rating and seven have given a buy rating to the 
stock. The company presently has an average rating of Hold and an average target price of $99.50. Shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[3]) opened at 106.22 on Wednesday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week 
low of $66.09 and a 52 week high of $106.32. The stock has a market cap of $26.21 billion, a P/E ratio of 18.98 and 
a beta of 0.72. The stock has a 50 day moving average price of $94.63 and a 200-day moving average price of 
$85.87.  https://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/05/29/valuengine-lowers-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-to-hold.html.   A 
number of large investors have recently made changes to their positions in the stock. Capital Research Global 
Investors raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 17.2% in the third quarter. Capital Research Global 
Investors now owns 8,373,690 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $628,278,000 after buying an 
additional 1,230,762 shares in the last quarter. Capital International Investors raised its stake in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc by 1.6% in the third quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 4,380,192 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $328,646,000 after buying an additional 70,214 shares during the period. 
Janus Capital Management LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 6.3% in the first quarter. 
Janus Capital Management LLC now owns 3,297,367 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$273,610,000 after buying an additional 195,986 shares during the period. Renaissance Technologies LLC raised 
its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 2.0% in the fourth quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC now owns 
2,329,108 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $193,922,000 after buying an additional 45,000 
shares during the period. Finally, JPMorgan Chase .... raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 32.9% 
in the first quarter. JPMorgan Chase .... now owns 1,661,275 shares of the transportation company's stock valued 
at $137,853,000 after buying an additional 411,479 shares during the period. 42.80% of the stock is currently 
owned by institutional investors.  Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is 
ValuEngine Lowers Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) to Hold
a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline 
serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and 
Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air 
passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food and merchandise. To view ValuEngine's full report, visit ValuEngine's official website[4]. Receive 
News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[5]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.valuengine.com/rep/order_report?pid=64...hfor=RYAAY [ 5]:            https://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-
email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair%20Holdings%20plc 
Load-Date: May 30, 2017
End of Document
New Relic ( NEWR ) Earns Daily Coverage Optimism Score of 0.42
New Relic (NEWR) Earns Daily Coverage Optimism Score of 0.42
American Banking and Market News
May 28, 2017 Sunday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 747 words
Body
New Relic logo News headlines about New Relic (NYSE:NEWR) have trended positive this week, AlphaOne 
reports. The research group, a subsidiary of Accern, identifies positive and negative news coverage by analyzing 
more than 20 million news and blog sources in real-time. AlphaOne ranks coverage of companies on a scale of 
negative one to positive one, with scores closest to one being the most favorable. New Relic earned a coverage 
optimism score of 0.42 on AlphaOne's scale. AlphaOne also assigned headlines about the software maker an 
impact score of 0 out of 100, indicating that recent news coverage is extremely unlikely to have an impact on the 
company's share price in the next several days.  
These are some of the headlines that may have impacted Alpha One Sentiment's scoring: 
•
New Relic digital intelligence platform chosen by Ryanair  (financial-news.co.uk)
•
New 
Relic 
(NEWR) 
Receiving 
Somewhat 
Positive 
Media 
Coverage, 
Study 
Shows  
(americanbankingnews.com)
•
Insider Selling: New Relic Inc (NEWR) CFO Sells 3,500 Shares of Stock  (americanbankingnews.com)
•
Ryanair Soars with Real-time Digital Business Performance Metrics from New Relic  (finance.yahoo.com)
Shares of New Relic (NYSE:NEWR ) traded down 1.14% on Friday, hitting $39.98. 225,261 shares of the stock 
traded hands. The stock's market cap is $2.11 billion. New Relic has a 52-week low of $23.55 and a 52-week high 
of $40.70. The stock's 50 day moving average price is $37.96 and its 200 day moving average price is $34.56.  
New Relic (NYSE:NEWR) last released its earnings results on Tuesday, February 7th. The software maker reported 
($0.09) earnings per share for the quarter, topping the Zacks' consensus estimate of ($0.14) by $0.05. New Relic 
had a negative net margin of 26.90% and a negative return on equity of 32.99%. The firm had revenue of $68.10 
million for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $66.32 million. During the same period in the prior year, the 
firm earned ($0.22) earnings per share. The business's quarterly revenue was up 42.6% compared to the same 
quarter last year.  On average, equities analysts expect that  New Relic will post ($0.53) EPS for the current fiscal 
year.  
Several research analysts have recently issued reports on NEWR shares. Zacks Investment Research upgraded 
shares of New Relic from a "sell" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $44.00 target price on the stock in a research 
note on Wednesday, April 12th. Oppenheimer Holdings Inc.  set a $40.00 target price on shares of New Relic and 
gave the stock a "buy" rating in a research note on Saturday, March 11th. Robert W. Baird  reiterated a "hold" rating 
on shares of New Relic in a research note on Wednesday, January 25th. Cowen and Company  reiterated an 
New Relic ( NEWR ) Earns Daily Coverage Optimism Score of 0.42
"outperform" rating and issued a $38.00 target price on shares of New Relic in a research note on Wednesday, 
January 25th. Finally, Pacific Crest  reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of New Relic in a research note on 
Friday, January 27th. Nine analysts have rated the stock with a buy rating,  The company presently has a 
consensus rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $43.75. 
WARNING: "[[title]]" was  published by [[site]] and is the sole property of of [[site]]. If you are viewing this article on 
another website, it was illegally stolen and reposted in violation of US & international copyright law. The legal 
version of this article can be viewed at [[permalink]].  
In other New Relic news, CFO Mark Sachleben sold 3,500 shares of the stock in a transaction that occurred on 
Monday, April 24th. The shares were sold at an average price of $40.00, for a total value of $140,000.00. The sale 
was disclosed in a document filed with the SEC, which is available through this link . Also, CEO Lewis Cirne sold 
31,000 shares of the stock in a transaction that occurred on Friday, February 10th. The shares were sold at an 
average price of $36.11, for a total transaction of $1,119,410.00. The disclosure for this sale can be found            
here . Insiders have sold 141,600 shares of company stock worth $5,180,143 over the last 90 days. Insiders own  
46.60% of the company's stock.  
About New Relic
New Relic, Inc (New Relic) is a provider of enterprise software. The Company's cloud-based platform and range of 
products enable organizations to collect, store and analyze software data in real time. The Company's New Relic 
Software Analytics Cloud consists of an integrated suite of products, a data database and an open platform.
Load-Date: June 21, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Earns Media Impact Score of 0.31
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Earns Media Impact Score of 0.31
Watchlist News
May 27, 2017 Saturday 9:56 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 563 words
Byline: Mark Dietrich
Body
May 27, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Press coverage about 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has trended positive recently, Alpha One reports. Alpha One, a division of 
Accern, ranks the sentiment of media coverage by analyzing more than 20 million blog and news sources. Alpha 
One ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of negative one to one, with scores nearest to one 
being the most favorable. 
Ryanair Holdings plc earned a news sentiment score of 0.31 on Alpha One's scale. Alpha One also gave press 
coverage about the transportation company an impact score of 76 out of 100, indicating that recent media coverage 
is likely to have an impact on the stock's share price in the next few days.  A number of equities analysts have 
recently commented on RYAAY shares. Zacks Investment Research[1] raised shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from 
a 'sell' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $109.00 price objective for the company in a report on Saturday, May 6th. 
Deutsche Bank AG raised shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a report on Monday, 
February 13th. Kepler Capital Markets downgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' 
rating in a report on Friday, February 10th. Finally, ValuEngine[2] downgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from 
a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Wednesday. One analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five 
have issued a hold rating and seven have issued a buy rating to the stock. The company currently has a consensus 
rating of 'Hold' and a consensus price target of $99.50. Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[3]) 
traded up 0.92% during midday trading on Friday, hitting $106.22. 163,517 shares of the company were 
exchanged. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $66.09 and a one year high of $106.32. The company has 
a market capitalization of $26.21 billion, a P/E ratio of 18.98 and a beta of 0.72. The company has a 50-day moving 
average of $94.63 and a 200 day moving average of $85.87.  https://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-
ryaay-earns-media-impact-score-of-0-31/1312738.html.  Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings 
plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, 
scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities 
connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and 
the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter 
your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair 
Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter[4]. [ 1]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Earns Media Impact Score of 0.31
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 4]:            https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair+Holdings+plc 
Load-Date: May 27, 2017
End of Document
Michael O'Leary: Pedals, politics and self-parody
Michael O'Leary: Pedals, politics and self-parody
Sunday Business Post
May 27, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 2305 words
Byline: Barry J Whyte
Highlight: O’Leary hasn’t lost his sting; The Ryanair boss says that Dublin is being ruined by cycling-lobby 
‘headbangers’, that climate change is bunk, and that the market will solve most problems 
Body
It’s hard, when talking to Michael O’Leary, not to think of the fable of the scorpion and the frog.
It’s a well-known tale. The scorpion asks the frog for a lift across the river. The frog, understandably cautious, asks 
for a promise he won’t get stung. The scorpion duly promises, but half way across he stings the frog anyway. The 
frog, as he sinks into the water, demands an explanation, since they’re now both going to perish. In most tellings of 
the story, the scorpion apologises, offering only that “it’s my nature”.
It’s been more than three years since Ryanair launched its Always Getting Better programme – the unveiling of a 
new ‘warm and fuzzy’ version of the airline and its chief executive – but O’Leary can still pack a sting. Consider his 
views on cyclists, which he delivered at length to The Sunday Business Post last week.
“We are just fucking up this city. It’s run by a bunch of cyclists in Dublin Corporation who live close to the city 
centre. When you look at what we’re doing with the planning of the roads, we’re making it less and less tolerable for 
people to drive around the city,” he says.
“Cars pay for themselves,” he continues. “Cyclists pay for nothing.”
It’s a prelude to a lengthy and expletive-laden tirade that is classic O’Leary, containing measures of provocation, 
free-market conviction, impatient rhetoric, and a few nuggets of genuine wisdom in among the bloviating.
At the core of his rant is what sounds like an awful idea - stripping away the planning restrictions on high-rise 
developments in the city centre to allow for loads of multi-storey car parks. But he has a rationale for it, he says.
“Look at Merrion Square. Why do we allow cars to park all around Merrion Square? [And] you’re still allowing cars 
to park around Stephen’s Green while you’re fucking it up with the Luas and whatever else.
Michael O'Leary: Pedals, politics and self-parody
“Why not put a multi-storey car park under Stephen’s Green? It pays for itself, generates enormous revenue for 
Dublin Corporation. And you get all the parking [off the streets].”
Such an idea would create an extra lane on most Dublin city streets, he says. And while that might well be used for 
the cycle lanes that he clearly detests, it would at least remove a chunk of congestion from the city centre.
“But you’re now going to fuck up the quays, you’re going to pedestrianise the plaza outside Trinity College . . . how 
the fuck does anyone get around this town any more?” he says.
I suggest that it provides an aesthetic improvement that makes for a more appealing city.
“People are not interested in aesthetic improvements; they want to live in a city that works. They want to live in a 
city that works for them,” O’Leary says.
“We should have sensible solutions here that are not fucking this paranoia here [sic] about looking after fucking 
cyclists because [of] a couple of headbangers in Dublin fucking Corporation. I’d shoot them all.”
He taps his watch. “Right, we’re done,” he says, before striding out of the room.
✽ ✽ ✽
If Ryanair’s Always Getting Better programme hasn’t succeeded entirely in sanding off O’Leary’s rough edges, it 
has proved a masterstroke for the airline.
The company’s share price has soared in the last three years, while its profits have shot ever higher. In 2014, the 
company had €522 million in profits; in 2015 it was €866.7 million; in 2016 that had leapt 43 per cent to more than 
€1.24 billion; and in next week’s results, the company is expected to have profits of around €1.35 billion.
It has also seen the airline reverse previous articles of commercial faith for the low-fares model - such as 
introducing allocated seating, allowing two carry-on bags, while also flying to Frankfurt-Main despite once promising 
it never would - all with the aim of luring flyers who would happily pay more for the perception of comfort.
The company is driving that even further. Last week, O’Leary announced that the company would be offering flight 
connections - which it has never done before, preferring a simple point-to-point model - and that it would be using 
Rome Fiumicino as a regional hub in Europe, while also negotiating the possibility for transatlantic destinations 
through partnerships with long-haul airlines.
So what does the future hold for Ryanair?
In spite of O’Leary’s short-term analysis of Brexit - he said during a press conference last week that “there’s a real 
possibility that there may not be a framework for flights between the EU and Britain, in which case we’re all back on 
boats for a period of weeks or months” - he insists that Britain’s departure from the EU will not affect the airline’s 
growth trajectory.
“Can we grow the fleet to 500 aircraft odd in the next eight years? Yes. Do we know where those craft will be 
allocated? Yes. And therefore can we grow to 200 million passengers a year? Absolutely yes. And everyone else 
will just have to get out of the way,” he says.
However, that aggressive approach to growth does come with its risks, he concedes.
“There have been years, maybe one out of every four, or one out of every five, that some other idiot is out there 
splurging on capacity [meaning buying aircraft] and there’s too much capacity growth in the system in Europe,” he 
says, which can have an impact on Ryanair’s bottom line.
Michael O'Leary: Pedals, politics and self-parody
“There was a short-term pinch in our profits last year. Fares fell by nearly double digits, nearly 10 per cent,” he 
says. “This year’s profits will be up about 5 or 6 per cent in the full year, probably the slowest profit growth we’ve 
had for the last five or six years.”
But they’re still outstripping their competitors, he says.
“EasyJet’s profits declined last year by about 25 or 30 per cent. Ours only grew by 6 per cent – so we’re doing 
better than anyone else.”
Perhaps unsurprisingly, politics, both Irish and British, have been on O’Leary’s mind lately. He has been a vocal 
critic of Brexit, while at last week’s press conference he gave a pungent analysis of the Fine Gael leadership 
context.
So precisely what are O’Leary’s politics?
He has spoken at both Fine Gael and Fianna Fáil fundraisers in the past, but when it comes to the leadership 
contest between Leo Varadkar and Simon Coveney, he favours Varadkar – though he’d prefer either to Micheál 
Martin because, he says, Martin “was driving the bus when they drove it over the cliff”.
“What I don’t want to see is the Shinners getting any toehold here,” he says, “because frankly, their economic 
policies have failed and they’re being practised at the moment in North Korea with no success whatsoever.”
That rather neatly outlines his political spectrum because, in truth, if O’Leary has any political god it’s the free 
market.On Europe, for example, he’s in favour of the single market, but trenchantly opposed to political integration.
“I’m foursquare in favour of the single market,” he says. “Deregulation, liberalisation and removing state 
impediments to competition and consumer choice.
“I was active in the campaigns here on the second Maastricht referendum and the second Nice referendum, 
because I believe that the single market has been one of the revolutions of my life.We also campaigned actively 
against Brexit.
“We should continue to oppose further political union and be aggressive advocates of the single market. I don’t see 
any great contradiction there.”
Even on a topic such as climate change – denial of which can be regarded by some as the same kind of toxic anti- 
scientific outlook as that held by anti-vaccination advocates – O’Leary is, to put it mildly, unrepentant.
“Climate change is fucking rubbish because it used to be global warming and now - because they can’t stand up 
global warming any more, because there hasn’t been any rise in temperatures in mean terms for the last ten years - 
they now talk about climate change.”
But scratch a little harder, and it’s less the belief in the threat to the polar ice caps or the damage to equatorial 
regions or the flooding of coastal areas that bothers him than the manner in which governments across the world 
have chosen to address the problem.
“There’s this assumption that if we do something about carbon consumption, or taxing carbon consumption, the 
climate will stop changing,” he says. “It’s complete and utter rubbish.”
The cap-and-trade system, the subsidising of renewables, the perception (in O’Leary’s mind) of a “completely 
bloody bogus industry created around this climate change”, and what he calls “the inference that if we only taxed 
someone and we stop consuming carbon climate will stop changing” - they all add up to unwarranted government 
intervention in his view.
In the end, the market will solve carbon consumption”, he says.
Michael O'Leary: Pedals, politics and self-parody
“We will adapt. The market will solve most things. The market does need to be regulated in the interests of social 
protection, but you allow competition in the market to regulate these things,” he says.
And just how much social protection is required? In effect, just how much should the state step in?
“As little as humanly possible, so that you don’t have wars, pestilence or discrimination against genders, peoples, or 
races,” O’Leary says. “Other than that, let the market fix it and the market will fix it.”
Which sounds rather like the sort of anti-regulation, pro-market policies that got Donald Trump elected to the White 
House, and which have plenty of currency around the world despite Trump’s own rapidly plummeting stock.
Does O’Leary himself have any political aspirations? Would he take a government ministry if he was offered it, for 
example?
“No!” he exclaims. “I’m running a successful airline. I have no desire to get into fucking politics in one of the 
government ministries. I wouldn’t survive a week in a government ministry because I don’t have the patience to be 
telling people what they want to hear. I’d be telling them the truth instead.”
✽ ✽ ✽
Ultimately, O’Leary is well aware of how the public see him.
“Look, I’m a parody of myself, whatever it is, because my function here, apart from driving growth in the business, is 
to be the PR extreme of whatever message we’re pushing at that moment,” he says. “So, for many years, it was: 
‘Shut up, sit down, we don’t care, we’ve cheaper fares than anyone else, fuck off.’ And I’d take that to its logical 
conclusion.”
So how do we know where the parody ends and the real Michael O’Leary begins?
“The parody is always there,” he says. “I would like to hope the real Michael O’Leary is somewhere in the middle, 
with a bit of common sense, doing common sense things for the business.”
That doesn’t mean he doesn’t make mistakes, he concedes, and there have been a couple in the last year.
There was, for example, the ad that mocked Aer Lingus at the time it was revealed that several people-smuggling 
networks had been in operation through Dublin airport using the airline’s catering trucks.
“Immigrants fly Aer Lingus,” the Ryanair social media team tweeted, to great criticism at the time.
O’Leary points out that he didn’t come up with the tweet - though he did chide some of the critics for their lack of a 
sense of humour, while accusing others of being “snowflakes” - but he says that he does encourage his team to 
take risks.
Then there was his caustic criticism of some of his own investors - or, more accurately, past investors - as “idiots” 
over their qualms about Ryanair’s refusal to enter into collective bargaining with trade unions in Denmark.
“Again, there’s an example of me making a mistake. I should’ve been more temperate in the way I respond to that, 
but sometimes you get frustrated,” he says.
“The difficulty is that you’re on the phone to someone saying: ‘Ah, these are a bunch of idiots’ and it’s a throwaway 
comment, but it then becomes the corporate response: ‘Ryanair says these shareholders are idiots.’ And they’re not 
idiots, they’re just misinformed.”
He points out that the company does indeed have collective bargaining, just not with trade unions.
“But that shouldn’t be said in an impatient, intemperate way that just calls them all idiots,” he says. “So I still make 
mistakes.
Michael O'Leary: Pedals, politics and self-parody
“You’re always inclined to go with what is the quick quip which, most of the time, results in reasonable coverage. 
And occasionally you get it wrong. Calling people idiots is a bit of the old Michael O’Leary and the old Ryanair.”
He pauses to take a drink of coffee, before flashing a mischievous grin. “I should’ve eliminated that from my 
personal discourse,” he says.
But, as he doesn’t need to explain, it is his nature.
. . . taking a government ministry
“I have no desire to get into fucking politics in one of the government ministries. I wouldn’t survive a week in a 
government ministry because I don’t have the patience to be telling people what they want to hear. I’d be telling 
them the truth instead.”
. . . semi-state chief executives
“If you’re getting paid €350,000 a year, you’re well paid. It’s not some public service. Some of the public sector 
companies in this country offer you a phenomenal platform for moving into taking up other opportunities: you put 
yourself in a shop window.”
. . . Brexit
“Brexit won’t affect our growth. It may affect where we grow - we may have to grow more in Europe than in Britain. 
But will we hit all those passenger targets - 200 million passengers by 2024? Yes, we will.”
. . . social media mistakes
“We will still make mistakes. Hopefully, we will have enough cop-on to say that wasn’t right, that wasn’t the right 
tone, that didn’t go down well, don’t do it again, let’s learn from the mistakes.”
. . . the European Union
“I’m foursquare in favour of the single market, [but] I oppose the political tyranny of Brussels.”
. . . Dublin city centre
“I’m entirely in favour of the centre of Dublin shooting upwards. There’s planning restrictions all over the place. You 
can’t build anything in this town, instead of in the docklands, that’s higher than six or seven storeys. Six or seven 
storeys is not going to fix our problem here.”
Load-Date: June 2, 2017
End of Document
Michael O’Leary: Martin ‘has no credibility’ as a taoiseach  
Michael O’Leary: Martin ‘has no credibility’ as a taoiseach  
Sunday Business Post
May 27, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 312 words
Byline: Barry J Whyte
Highlight: Fianna Fáil leader ‘helped drive the car off the cliff’  
Body
Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin has no credibility as a potential taoiseach, according to Ryanair boss Michael 
O’Leary.
O’Leary has been making his voice heard on Irish politics lately, making vocal arguments for Leo Varadkar over 
Simon Coveney in the current Fine Gael leadership contest. However, O’Leary reserved his most pungent 
commentary for Martin, whom, he said, was in power when many of the failed policies of the Celtic Tiger era were 
implemented.
“Leo Varadkar would be a better leader than Simon Coveney, but I would take either Leo or Simon over Micheál 
Martin. In fact, I’d take most people over Micheál Martin,” O’Leary told The Sunday Business Post.
“Micheál Martin was there for ten years sitting in the cabinet when they drove the fucking car off the cliff. How he 
has any credibility as a potential taoiseach of this country mystifies me.”
O’Leary said he would like to see Martin “taken out”, to be replaced by “Michael McGrath or a new generation of 
Fianna Fáil leaders”.
O’Leary has made a number of speeches at party political fundraisers recently, for both Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael.
“My politics are I will vote for whoever is the best fucking candidate. At the moment, it looks like it’s Fine Gael, 
because they have done a reasonable job,” O’Leary said.
He was trenchant in his views on other parties too, especially Sinn Féin. “I don’t want to see the Shinners getting 
any toehold here,” he said. “Frankly, their economic policies have failed, and they’re being practised at the moment 
in North Korea with no success whatsoever.”
Michael O’Leary: Martin ‘has no credibility’ as a taoiseach  
O’Leary insisted he has no political aspirations himself.
“I have no desire to get into fucking politics in one of the government ministries. I wouldn’t survive a week in a 
government ministry because I don’t have the patience to be telling people what they want to hear. I’d be telling 
them the truth instead,” he said.
Load-Date: June 2, 2017
End of Document
Blue sky thinking: How Ireland can attract developers
Blue sky thinking: How Ireland can attract developers
Sunday Business Post
May 27, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 761 words
Byline: Leanna Byrne
Highlight: When it comes to the dearth of developers, Irish firms can’t compete with the weather 
Body
Earlier this month, hoping to understand more about the growing fintech sector in Kerry, I visited payments and 
exchange giants like Fexco and Monex as well as promising start-ups like Taxamo.
Companies like these are making it look easy to be a global company operating from the south-west of Ireland. As 
they told me, technology eliminates most geographical challenges.
But surely there is something that bothers them? Something that might come easier to them if they were located in, 
say, Dublin, London or Berlin?
Well, they said, there is one thing: the ability to hire developers. Getting a developer at short notice is tough. Getting 
20 developers for a big expansion or a project is virtually impossible.
These days, developers hold all the cards. With the demand for technical talent far exceeding the supply, every 
company is on the hunt for its next developer.
The thing is, whether you’re located in Kerry or Dublin, you’ll come across the same problem.
Some 75 per cent of developers in Ireland and Britain are employed full-time, while 11 per cent classify themselves 
as independent contractors, or self-employed, according to the latest Developer Hiring Landscape Report from 
Stack Overflow. About 89 per cent of 4,740 Irish and British developers surveyed are employed in some capacity.
On average, Irish developers earn up to 27 per cent more than those in the Britain, with median pay of €57,700 per 
year. This is on a par with London area developers, but 35 per cent higher than median salaries in the North.
With such demand, 28 per cent of developers spend no time searching for jobs. For those that do job hunt, 33 per 
cent will only spend one hour a week looking up new opportunities.
Blue sky thinking: How Ireland can attract developers
For employers, this is a huge challenge. Post a job advertisement looking for a developer, and chances are you 
won’t get so much as a response. But is it getting worse?
To get an answer, I rang John Dennehy, chief executive of Zartis, to find out. His company has recruited developers 
for Stripe, Ryanair Labs and Mastercard Labs.
Even when I called him, there was a long dial tone. When he picked up, he told me he was over in Portugal 
recruiting developers.
In other words, if you need a developer, Dennehy is your man. Ireland does not produce many developers, but 
luckily there is a whole continent out there for tech companies to find them. Companies like Google and Facebook 
already hire the majority of their new employees from abroad.
Yet, Dennehy said that even the high salaries and quality of life in Ireland is less of a pull these days as developers’ 
native economies gain momentum.
“It’s getting tougher. What we’ve noticed is that European mobility has slowed down significantly. There’s way less 
developers moving from Europe, not just into Ireland but in general,” said Dennehy.
So where are all the developers? According to Stack Overflow’s 2017 global report, 22 per cent of developers live in 
the US, 10 per cent in India and 8 per cent in Germany.
But as European economies are getting back on their feet, developers are taking it as an opportunity to return to 
their native countries and work there.
“They might not have had the same options two and a half years ago. Now they can work for an Irish company, but 
stay in sunny Spain or by the beach in Portugal,” said Dennehy.
Unfortunately, Irish tech companies can’t compete with the weather. This means that recruiting tactics have 
changed. Instead of trying to lure developers to the emerald isle, companies give them free reign to work as 
remotely as they like.
Companies are looking further than Spain, Croatia and Portugal. Now South America and South Africa are ripe to 
harvest developers.
This year alone, the Department of Jobs issued 842 employment permits for non-EEA nationals. Amazon, Google 
Ireland, Intel, Ericsson and SAP were among the companies that were granted the highest amount of permits.
Last year, 9,373 permits were issued in total. For smaller companies, going through the process of visas and 
permits can be a daunting task. However, it shouldn’t be. Getting a work permit costs about €1,000 and can take as 
little as two weeks.
The other option – and certainly not the last – is to hire remotely. Let’s face it, Irish SMEs do not have the same 
drawing power as Google or Facebook (maybe one day!). Instead of tearing your hair out and paying huge money 
to relocate a developer, work with a remote development team.
After all, if technology is breaking down geographical ties and allowing companies in Kerry to cultivate global 
clients, why not let the developers live at the beach?
Load-Date: June 2, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launch plan to grow EU tourism by 10% and create two million new jobs
Ryanair launch plan to grow EU tourism by 10% and create two million new 
jobs
Business World (Digest)
May 26, 2017 Friday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 287 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair yesterday launched a five point plan to grow European tourism by 10% and create two million new jobs.    
Speaking at the Malta Tourism Conference yesterday, Ryanair’s Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs 
emphasised how low fare flights were a key driver of regional tourism and job creation, which could help grow 
tourism by 10% next year (vs the 4% predicted for 2018) and create an additional 2m new jobs if EU countries took 
the necessary steps to encourage more Europeans to holiday in Europe.    Ryanair have called for lower airport 
costs and removing taxes on short haul travel within Europe. They have also called for the accommodation 
shortage that drives up prices to be addressed by lowering costs and building more hotels.   Furthermore, they have 
called for the improvement of the marketing of EU destinations to encourage EU citizens to holiday in Europe aswell 
as developing new regional resorts such as southern Italy and northern Spain.
Speaking yesterday in Malta, Ryanair’s Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Some 130m people will fly 
with Ryanair across Europe this year and we have seen first-hand the regional tourism growth and job creation that 
low cost aviation brings, especially for Europe’s youth. This Ryanair effect has already paid dividends to regions 
across the EU."
He added, "As demand for travel grows, aviation can further boost tourism by raising the profile of lesser known 
destinations. Tourism contributes up to 15% of European GDP each year, and supports over 12% of the jobs within 
the EU. Taking the right steps could see tourism grow by 10% next year, rather than the predicted 4%, which would 
create an additional 2m European jobs."
Source: www.businessworld.ie 
Ryanair launch plan to grow EU tourism by 10% and create two million new jobs
Load-Date: June 9, 2017
End of Document
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
May 26, 2017 Friday 4:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 1488 words
Byline: Rachel More, +61 2 9322 8065, <, international@dpa.com, ;
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the weekly planner please call or email the dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-
Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 8064 Email: 
international@dpa.com
MONDAY, MAY 29
PARIS: French President Emmanuel Macron to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin.
BRITAIN: Prime Minister Theresa May and opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn face televised interview ahead 
of election.
MELBOURNE: Class-action lawsuit against Australian government by refugees held on Manus Island set to begin.
BERLIN: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi travels to Germany to meet Chancellor Angela Merkel (until May 30).
WASHINGTON: 100th birthday of assassinated president John F Kennedy.
WASHINGTON: Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc leaves for US visit (until May 31).
QUEBEC: Student suspect in Quebec mosque attack due in court.
WELLINGTON: Formal welcome for sacred Maori remains returned to New Zealand's Museum Te Papa from the 
Karolinska Institutet in Sweden.
ISTANBUL: Verdict expected in trial of two brothers accused of murdering their sister in so-called honour killing.
EVEREST: Tenzing-Hillary Everest marathon, the world's highest marathon, kicks off (until May 30).
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
BERGEN, NORWAY: Nordic prime ministers hold an informal meeting with terrorism on the agenda (until May 30).
ARLINGTON, TEXAS: US observes Memorial Day in honour of soldiers who died in service.
ISTANBUL: Istanbul Music Festival begins (until June 21).
STOCKHOLM: German author and illustrator Wolf Erlbruch to accept the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award for 
literature for children.
CANCUN, MEXICO: World Water Congress takes place (until June 3).
UN: International Day of UN Peacekeepers.
BRUSSELS: EU Green Week takes place (until June 2).
BRUSSELS: EU Competitiveness Council meets (until May 30).
BERLIN: Think20 Summit takes place, bringing together research institutes and think tanks from the G20 countries 
(until May 30).
__________________________________________________
TUESDAY, MAY 30
KUALA LUMPUR: Indonesian and Vietnamese women charged with the killing of Kim Jong Nam to appear at 
magistrate's court, with judge expected to transfer case to high court.
TOKYO: Japanese unemployment rate data released for April.
MUNICH: Hearing scheduled in NSU far-right terrorism trial.
DRESDEN, GERMANY: Hearing scheduled in "Gruppe Freital" far-right terrorism trial.
MOSCOW: Bolshoi Theatre hosts gala-concert to present the choreography and dance awards Prix Benois de la 
Danse.
STUTTGART: German holding company Porsche SE conducts annual general meeting.
BRUSSELS: EU ministers meet to discuss research and space.
BERLIN: "Baywatch" to hit European cinemas.
DUBLIN: RyanAir to release annual results.
BRUSSELS: European Commission likely to propose legislation on volunteer work.
CHINA: Dragon Boat Festival
INTERNATIONAL: Jewish festival of Shavuot is observed (until June 1).
LAAGE, GERMANY: Representatives of all OSCE member states to visit German military airfield.
BERLIN: German Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development Gerd Muller holds panel discussion 
on development in Africa.
__________________________________________________
WEDNESDAY, MAY 31
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
WASHINGTON: Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc meets US President Donald Trump at the White 
House.
LUXEMBOURG: Eurostat releases flash estimate of Eurozone inflation rate for May 2017.
LUXEMBOURG: Eurostat releases unemployment data for April 2017.
MADRID: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets with Spanish President Mariano Rajoy.
BRUSSELS: EU Commission presents reform ideas for the Eurozone.
VIENNA: Initial inquiries into Austrian Eurofighter deal begin, after Austria accused Airbus and Eurofighter of 
misleading the Defence Ministry.
TOKYO: Japanese industrial production data released for April.
BEIJING: China's National Bureau of Statistics releases Purchasing Managers Index for May 2017.
WIESBADEN, GERMANY: Monthly retail figures for Germany released for previous month.
BERLIN: Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders presents his new book "Our Revolution" at the Freie University of Berlin.
WASHINGTON: Organization of American States discusses Venezuela crisis.
DRESDEN, GERMANY: Hearing scheduled in "Gruppe Freital" far-right terrorism trial.
WELLINGTON: State visit by Australian Governor-General Sir Peter Cosgrove to New Zealand (until June 3).
DALLAS, TEXAS: ExxonMobil holds annual general meeting.
BRUSSELS: EU Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) releases annual report for 2016.
INTERNATIONAL: World No Tobacco Day.
INTERNATIONAL: World MS Day.
BARCELONA: Music festival Primavera Sound takes place (until June 4).
__________________________________________________
THURSDAY, JUNE 1
BRUSSELS: EU-China Summit takes place with China represented by Prime Minister Li Keqiang (until June 2).
ST PETERSBURG: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi visits Russia for bilateral talks with Russian President 
Vladimir Putin.
KARLSRUHE, GERMANY: Expected verdict in copyright proceedings over two-second Kraftwerk beat.
KOUROU: Expected launch of an Ariane-Rocket at the European Spaceport.
LONDON: Start of the Sundance Film Festival (until June 4).
HELSINKI: Finland celebrates 100 years of independence.
NAIROBI: Kenya celebrates its independence with Madaraka Day.
LONDON: International think tank Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP) presents its "Global Peace Index" report.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
WASHINGTON: Presidential waiver on law requiring the US embassy to relocate from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem is set 
to expire.
MUNICH: Verdict expected in multimillion-euro lawsuit against German record company Arista Music by Elvis 
Presley Enterprises.
WASHINGTON: LGBT Pride month in the US (until June 30).
LONDON: 50 years since the Beatles album "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" was released.
ST PETERSBURG: St Petersburg International Economic Forum takes place, with President Vladimir Putin 
expected to attend (until June 3).
OXFORD, BRITAIN: "Raphael: The Drawings" exhibition opens at the Ashmolean Museum of Art and Archeology 
(until September 3, 2017).
LUXEMBOURG: European Court of Justice rules on Austrian environmental protection case after fisherman 
complained about hydroelectric power plant.
NEW YORK: Bolivia takes over rotating UN Security Council presidency for June.
SYDNEY: Red Cross chief for Papua New Guinea briefs journalists on political situation ahead of June/July 
elections there.
BRUSSELS: Brussels Economic Forum takes place.
BERLIN: European Biomethane Conference takes place with focus on renewable energy.
LOS ANGELES: 80th birthday of US actor Morgan Freeman.
LONDON: 70th birthday of Rolling Stones guitarist Ronnie Wood.
LONDON: 70th birthday of British actor Jonathan Pryce.
INTERNATIONAL: Global Day of Parents.
__________________________________________________
FRIDAY, JUNE 2
BAIKONUR, KAZAKHSTAN: French astronaut Thomas Pesquet returns to Earth after spending 6 months on the 
International Space Station.
BRITAIN: Prime Minister Theresa May and opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn appear on panel show 
Question Time in election campaign special.
UN: UN Security Council elects five new members for 2018 and 2019 terms.
WASHINGTON: Labour Department releases report on employment situation for May, including unemployment rate 
and payroll data.
WOLFSBURG, GERMANY: Bill Murray performs in premiere of "New Worlds" tour with chamber musicians.
DUBLIN: Deadline for Ireland's ruling Fine Gael party to choose new leader.
PHNOM PENH: Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen to participate in election parade.
BERLIN: Albanian President Bujar Nishani visits Germany.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
BERLIN: The international Y20 youth conferences brings together young leaders from the G20 countries (until June 
6).
SINGAPORE: The Asia Security Summit, the IISS Shangri-La Dialogue 2017, takes place (until June 4).
NEW YORK: First exhibition in the US by French author Michel Houellebecq (until August 4, 2017).
LONDON: "Gay UK: Love, Law and Liberty" opens at British Museum (until September 19, 2017).
BERLIN: 50th anniversary of shooting of German student protester Benno Ohnesorg by police officer Karl-Heinz 
Kurras.
__________________________________________________
SATURDAY JUNE 3
VALLETTA: Malta goes to the polls in general elections.
PARIS: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold talks with French President Emmanuel Macron.
RIGA: Communal elections takes place in Latvia.
CARDIFF: Champions League final, Juventus v Real Madrid.
WASHINGTON: First anniversary of the death of US boxer Muhammad Ali.
__________________________________________________
SUNDAY, JUNE 4
PHNOM PENH: Communal elections takes place in Cambodia.
ZAGREB: Second round of municipal elections takes place in Croatia.
DRESDEN, GERMANY: Bill Murray performs at Dresden Music Festival as part of "New Worlds" tour with chamber 
musicians.
CANCUN, MEXICO: International Air Transport Association holds annual meeting (until June 6).
NEW YORK: World Ocean Festival.
INTERNATIONAL: International Day of Innocent Children Victims of Aggression.
Load-Date: May 26, 2017
End of Document
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
May 26, 2017 Friday 9:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 1488 words
Byline: Rachel More, +61 2 9322 8065, <, international@dpa.com, ;
Body
All times GMT. If you have any questions about the weekly planner please call or email the dpa desks. Berlin (Mon-
Sun 0600-2100) Tel: +49 30 285231472 Sydney (Mon-Sun 2000-0700) Tel: +61 2 9322 8064 Email: 
international@dpa.com
MONDAY, MAY 29
PARIS: French President Emmanuel Macron to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin.
BRITAIN: Prime Minister Theresa May and opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn face televised interview ahead 
of election.
MELBOURNE: Class-action lawsuit against Australian government by refugees held on Manus Island set to begin.
BERLIN: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi travels to Germany to meet Chancellor Angela Merkel (until May 30).
WASHINGTON: 100th birthday of assassinated president John F Kennedy.
WASHINGTON: Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc leaves for US visit (until May 31).
QUEBEC: Student suspect in Quebec mosque attack due in court.
WELLINGTON: Formal welcome for sacred Maori remains returned to New Zealand's Museum Te Papa from the 
Karolinska Institutet in Sweden.
ISTANBUL: Verdict expected in trial of two brothers accused of murdering their sister in so-called honour killing.
EVEREST: Tenzing-Hillary Everest marathon, the world's highest marathon, kicks off (until May 30).
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
BERGEN, NORWAY: Nordic prime ministers hold an informal meeting with terrorism on the agenda (until May 30).
ARLINGTON, TEXAS: US observes Memorial Day in honour of soldiers who died in service.
ISTANBUL: Istanbul Music Festival begins (until June 21).
STOCKHOLM: German author and illustrator Wolf Erlbruch to accept the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award for 
literature for children.
CANCUN, MEXICO: World Water Congress takes place (until June 3).
UN: International Day of UN Peacekeepers.
BRUSSELS: EU Green Week takes place (until June 2).
BRUSSELS: EU Competitiveness Council meets (until May 30).
BERLIN: Think20 Summit takes place, bringing together research institutes and think tanks from the G20 countries 
(until May 30).
__________________________________________________
TUESDAY, MAY 30
KUALA LUMPUR: Indonesian and Vietnamese women charged with the killing of Kim Jong Nam to appear at 
magistrate's court, with judge expected to transfer case to high court.
TOKYO: Japanese unemployment rate data released for April.
MUNICH: Hearing scheduled in NSU far-right terrorism trial.
DRESDEN, GERMANY: Hearing scheduled in "Gruppe Freital" far-right terrorism trial.
MOSCOW: Bolshoi Theatre hosts gala-concert to present the choreography and dance awards Prix Benois de la 
Danse.
STUTTGART: German holding company Porsche SE conducts annual general meeting.
BRUSSELS: EU ministers meet to discuss research and space.
BERLIN: "Baywatch" to hit European cinemas.
DUBLIN: RyanAir to release annual results.
BRUSSELS: European Commission likely to propose legislation on volunteer work.
CHINA: Dragon Boat Festival
INTERNATIONAL: Jewish festival of Shavuot is observed (until June 1).
LAAGE, GERMANY: Representatives of all OSCE member states to visit German military airfield.
BERLIN: German Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development Gerd Muller holds panel discussion 
on development in Africa.
__________________________________________________
WEDNESDAY, MAY 31
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
WASHINGTON: Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc meets US President Donald Trump at the White 
House.
LUXEMBOURG: Eurostat releases flash estimate of Eurozone inflation rate for May 2017.
LUXEMBOURG: Eurostat releases unemployment data for April 2017.
MADRID: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets with Spanish President Mariano Rajoy.
BRUSSELS: EU Commission presents reform ideas for the Eurozone.
VIENNA: Initial inquiries into Austrian Eurofighter deal begin, after Austria accused Airbus and Eurofighter of 
misleading the Defence Ministry.
TOKYO: Japanese industrial production data released for April.
BEIJING: China's National Bureau of Statistics releases Purchasing Managers Index for May 2017.
WIESBADEN, GERMANY: Monthly retail figures for Germany released for previous month.
BERLIN: Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders presents his new book "Our Revolution" at the Freie University of Berlin.
WASHINGTON: Organization of American States discusses Venezuela crisis.
DRESDEN, GERMANY: Hearing scheduled in "Gruppe Freital" far-right terrorism trial.
WELLINGTON: State visit by Australian Governor-General Sir Peter Cosgrove to New Zealand (until June 3).
DALLAS, TEXAS: ExxonMobil holds annual general meeting.
BRUSSELS: EU Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) releases annual report for 2016.
INTERNATIONAL: World No Tobacco Day.
INTERNATIONAL: World MS Day.
BARCELONA: Music festival Primavera Sound takes place (until June 4).
__________________________________________________
THURSDAY, JUNE 1
BRUSSELS: EU-China Summit takes place with China represented by Prime Minister Li Keqiang (until June 2).
ST PETERSBURG: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi visits Russia for bilateral talks with Russian President 
Vladimir Putin.
KARLSRUHE, GERMANY: Expected verdict in copyright proceedings over two-second Kraftwerk beat.
KOUROU: Expected launch of an Ariane-Rocket at the European Spaceport.
LONDON: Start of the Sundance Film Festival (until June 4).
HELSINKI: Finland celebrates 100 years of independence.
NAIROBI: Kenya celebrates its independence with Madaraka Day.
LONDON: International think tank Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP) presents its "Global Peace Index" report.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
WASHINGTON: Presidential waiver on law requiring the US embassy to relocate from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem is set 
to expire.
MUNICH: Verdict expected in multimillion-euro lawsuit against German record company Arista Music by Elvis 
Presley Enterprises.
WASHINGTON: LGBT Pride month in the US (until June 30).
LONDON: 50 years since the Beatles album "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" was released.
ST PETERSBURG: St Petersburg International Economic Forum takes place, with President Vladimir Putin 
expected to attend (until June 3).
OXFORD, BRITAIN: "Raphael: The Drawings" exhibition opens at the Ashmolean Museum of Art and Archeology 
(until September 3, 2017).
LUXEMBOURG: European Court of Justice rules on Austrian environmental protection case after fisherman 
complained about hydroelectric power plant.
NEW YORK: Bolivia takes over rotating UN Security Council presidency for June.
SYDNEY: Red Cross chief for Papua New Guinea briefs journalists on political situation ahead of June/July 
elections there.
BRUSSELS: Brussels Economic Forum takes place.
BERLIN: European Biomethane Conference takes place with focus on renewable energy.
LOS ANGELES: 80th birthday of US actor Morgan Freeman.
LONDON: 70th birthday of Rolling Stones guitarist Ronnie Wood.
LONDON: 70th birthday of British actor Jonathan Pryce.
INTERNATIONAL: Global Day of Parents.
__________________________________________________
FRIDAY, JUNE 2
BAIKONUR, KAZAKHSTAN: French astronaut Thomas Pesquet returns to Earth after spending 6 months on the 
International Space Station.
BRITAIN: Prime Minister Theresa May and opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn appear on panel show 
Question Time in election campaign special.
UN: UN Security Council elects five new members for 2018 and 2019 terms.
WASHINGTON: Labour Department releases report on employment situation for May, including unemployment rate 
and payroll data.
WOLFSBURG, GERMANY: Bill Murray performs in premiere of "New Worlds" tour with chamber musicians.
DUBLIN: Deadline for Ireland's ruling Fine Gael party to choose new leader.
PHNOM PENH: Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen to participate in election parade.
BERLIN: Albanian President Bujar Nishani visits Germany.
dpa WEEKLY PLANNER for MAY 29-JUNE 4, 2017
BERLIN: The international Y20 youth conferences brings together young leaders from the G20 countries (until June 
6).
SINGAPORE: The Asia Security Summit, the IISS Shangri-La Dialogue 2017, takes place (until June 4).
NEW YORK: First exhibition in the US by French author Michel Houellebecq (until August 4, 2017).
LONDON: "Gay UK: Love, Law and Liberty" opens at British Museum (until September 19, 2017).
BERLIN: 50th anniversary of shooting of German student protester Benno Ohnesorg by police officer Karl-Heinz 
Kurras.
__________________________________________________
SATURDAY JUNE 3
VALLETTA: Malta goes to the polls in general elections.
PARIS: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold talks with French President Emmanuel Macron.
RIGA: Communal elections takes place in Latvia.
CARDIFF: Champions League final, Juventus v Real Madrid.
WASHINGTON: First anniversary of the death of US boxer Muhammad Ali.
__________________________________________________
SUNDAY, JUNE 4
PHNOM PENH: Communal elections takes place in Cambodia.
ZAGREB: Second round of municipal elections takes place in Croatia.
DRESDEN, GERMANY: Bill Murray performs at Dresden Music Festival as part of "New Worlds" tour with chamber 
musicians.
CANCUN, MEXICO: International Air Transport Association holds annual meeting (until June 6).
NEW YORK: World Ocean Festival.
INTERNATIONAL: International Day of Innocent Children Victims of Aggression.
Load-Date: May 27, 2017
End of Document
Wizz Air: flying high
Wizz Air: flying high
Financial Times (London, England)
May 26, 2017 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 10
Length: 358 words
Body
Technology companies often prioritise growth and market share over profits; relatively easy in an industry that is 
asset-light and has no problem attracting investment. It is trickier in aviation. Wizz Air has managed it well, and is 
not done yet.
The UK-listed airline expects it will increase capacity 23 per cent in its next fiscal year. That compares with 8-9 per 
cent at Ryanair and easyJet, and static or declining capacity at legacy airlines. Such rapid growth would usually 
have investors worried, either because it will strain the balance sheet (as with Norwegian, another low-cost airline 
with ambitious expansion plans) or reduce profitability (as at easyJet, where unit revenues are falling). Yet Wizz 
said yesterday that it expected revenues per available seat kilometre to rise slightly over the year to March 2018, 
versus City forecasts of a fall.
Two key factors have helped Wizz grow quickly. One is its focus; it flies to and from countries familiar to most 
western Europeans only via the Eurovision Song Contest. Yet these markets are relatively under-penetrated and 
growing rapidly. The former Yugoslav republics of Serbia, Macedonia and Bosnia - Wizz is the biggest operator in 
all three - are forecast to grow at 3 per cent or more in coming years. It is also structured to minimise costs, with an 
operating base in low-cost Budapest and a domicile in low-tax Switzerland. On most levels, costs are comparable to 
those of Ryanair, the market leader.
One exception is cost of ownership. Wizz leases planes, which reduces capital expenditure but raises operating 
expenses. As it grows, it will have more clout with aircraft makers. It should use it, and its EUR900m of net cash, to 
buy rather than lease planes.
Wizz Air: flying high
Growing quickly carries risks. Profit guidance for fiscal 2017 was downgraded in February. But Wizz shares, up 9 
per cent yesterday on the upgraded forecasts and almost back to their pre-Brexit referendum levels, reflect that. 
Some discount to more established peers is deserved; there is no dividend yet, for instance.
But if the company continues to deliver, expect that discount to close.
Twitter: @FTLex; Email: lex@ft.com 
Load-Date: May 25, 2017
End of Document
Wizz leaps as bearish forecast on flights proves unfounded Airlines
Wizz leaps as bearish forecast on flights proves unfounded; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
May 26, 2017 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 19
Length: 437 words
Byline: Cat Rutter Pooley and Mehreen Khan
Body
Budget airline Wizz Air said yesterday that demand for travel to and from the UK had remained strong since the 
Brexit vote, as it outlined ambitious growth plans following "challenging conditions" in 2016-17.
Shares in Wizz jumped almost 12 per cent, to £21.77, their highest level since it took a stock marketing listing in 
London in 2015.
Budapest-based Wizz, which is focused on flying in central and eastern Europe, said net profit rose 28 per cent to 
EUR246m in the year to March 31.
The company added it was targeting a net profit of between EUR250m and EUR270m in 2017-18, when it aims to 
carry almost 30m passengers, which would be an increase well in excess of 20 per cent compared with 2016-17.
Wizz is one of a relatively new breed of smaller budget airlines that are providing competition for larger low cost 
carriers led by Ryanair and easyJet.
Much of the European airline industry had a tough 2016, as terror attacks curbed demand for travel and carriers cut 
fares after ramping up the size of their fleets of passenger jets.
In February Wizz cut its profit target for 2016-17, blaming the move on falling fares and operational disruption due 
to unusually severe winter weather in key markets.
Wizz leaps as bearish forecast on flights proves unfounded Airlines
Wizz chief executive Jozsef Varadi said yesterday the trading environment in 2016-17 had been one of "very low 
fares and increasing fuel prices".
But he expressed confidence in Wizz's business model, adding that growth would "continue to be a top priority for 
us" in 2017-18.
Wizz's average fare per passenger fell 8 per cent to EUR65.73 in 2016-17, but its revenue increased 9.9 per cent to 
EUR1.6bn, reflecting how the number of passengers carried rose 19 per cent to 23.8m.
In July last year, Wizz responded to the UK's Brexit vote the previous month by halving its proposed capacity 
growth on British routes.
The company, which is due to next month open its first operating base in the UK at Luton airport, said: "Despite the 
UK's decision to leave the European Union . . . there are no signs of demand weakness on routes to/from the UK."
Wizz said the fall in the value of sterling since the Brexit vote had reduced its revenue by about EUR17m in 2016-
17, adding this was absorbed by the company's "large and diversified route network".
Wizz's underlying net profit rose 0.6 per cent to EUR225.3m. Its reported net profit was bolstered by EUR18.8m of 
financial income, partly from a one-off gain relating to its hedging of fuel costs.
Oliver Sleath, analyst at Barclays, said Wizz's summer outlook was "strong". "After a winter blip, results like today's 
demonstrate the strength of Wizz's business model," he added.
See Lex
Load-Date: May 25, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair says connecting flights trial going very well
Ryanair says connecting flights trial going very well
Business World (Digest)
May 25, 2017 Thursday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 447 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair's experiment with selling journeys involving connecting flights is going very well and may be extended to 
London's Stansted and Dublin airport within the next 12 months, Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said on 
Wednesday.
Ryanair become Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers by running a bare-bones operation, which included 
shunning trips involving a transfer to a connecting flight to avoid the risk of having to compensate passengers for 
missed connections.
But O'Leary dropped his opposition in 2015 as part of the airline's efforts to expand beyond its traditional customer 
base to fill a rapidly growing fleet of planes.
"The connecting flights trialled in Rome Fiumicino, which has been up and running for a month, is going very well," 
O'Leary told a news conference in Dublin. "We are seeing a big uptake on Italian domestic routes into Rome."
The trial means, for example, that a passenger in Italy wanting to fly to London from a city with no direct Ryanair 
route can now buy one ticket and change in Rome, rather than flying via Rome but paying for two separate Ryanair 
tickets.
Airports also typically charge lower fees for connecting passengers, which allows the airline to charge less for a 
flight from within Italy connecting to another Ryanair flight in Rome than selling the two legs separately.
For example, at Rome Fiumicino, airlines are charged 17.77 euros per passengers starting domestic or EU flights 
there but only pay 6.22 euros for transfer passengers.
Ryanair says connecting flights trial going very well
"We think as we iron out the wrinkles in this over the next couple of months it would be logical that we would begin 
then to offer connections maybe at Dublin airport, certainly at Stansted airport in the next 12 months," O'Leary said.
The airline is working with a minimum transfer time of two and a half hours in the trial and there have been no 
issues with delays, Chief Operating Officer David O'Brien said.
Any passengers on flights delayed by more than three hours would already qualify for compensation under 
European rules.
Once its internal transfers are working smoothly, Ryanair plans to start offering feeder flights for long-haul routes 
with other airlines.
O'Leary said Ryanair was in talks with Norwegian Air Shuttle , Aer Lingus and Portugal's TAP about feeding their 
long-haul flights and said the main factor delaying a launch was coordinating IT infrastructure.
O'Brien said Ryanair would offer access to its inventory of tickets to the partner airline and that Ryanair itself would 
not take any responsibility for missed connections.
He declined to comment on whether Ryanair might offer airlines a discount on the prices charged on Ryanair.com. 
(Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: June 8, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded to 'Hold' at ValuEngine
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded to 'Hold' at ValuEngine
Watchlist News
May 25, 2017 Thursday 4:06 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 675 words
Byline: Kyle Jackson
Body
May 25, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)             
https://www.watchlistnews.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgValuEngine[1] cut shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) from a buy rating to a hold rating in a report issued on Wednesday. A number of other equities 
research analysts have also recently weighed in on the company. 
Zacks Investment Research[2] upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a sell rating to a buy rating and set a $109.00 
price target on the stock in a research note on Saturday, May 6th. Deutsche Bank AG upgraded Ryanair Holdings 
plc from a hold rating to a buy rating in a research report on Monday, February 13th. Kepler Capital Markets cut 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a buy rating to a hold rating in a research report on Friday, February 10th. Finally, 
Canaccord Genuity began coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Thursday, January 26th. They 
issued a buy rating on the stock. One research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold 
rating and seven have given a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock has a consensus rating of Hold and an 
average price target of $99.50. Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[3]) traded up 1.0930% during mid-day 
trading on Wednesday, hitting $104.5302. 171,105 shares of the company traded hands. Ryanair Holdings plc has 
a one year low of $66.09 and a one year high of $104.93. The company's 50-day moving average price is $93.43 
and its 200 day moving average price is $85.53. The company has a market capitalization of $25.79 billion, a price-
to-earnings ratio of 18.6828 and a beta of 0.72.   https://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-
downgraded-to-hold-at-valuengine/1306455.html.  A number of large investors have recently modified their holdings 
of RYAAY. Quantbot Technologies LP acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the first 
quarter worth $106,000. Tyers Asset Management LLC purchased a new stake in Ryanair Holdings plc during the 
fourth quarter valued at approximately $133,000. FNY Partners Fund LP purchased a new stake in Ryanair 
Holdings plc during the first quarter valued at approximately $156,000. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. 
increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 5.3% in the first quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. now 
owns 1,941 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $160,000 after buying an additional 98 shares in 
the last quarter. Finally, Flinton Capital Management LLC purchased a new stake in Ryanair Holdings plc during the 
fourth quarter valued at approximately $161,000. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 42.80% of the 
company's stock.  About Ryanair Holdings plc Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for 
Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, 
point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair 
provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, 
including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded to 'Hold' at ValuEngine
merchandise.To view ValuEngine's full report, visit ValuEngine's official website[4].Receive News ...tings for 
Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news 
and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily 
email 
newsletter[5]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.valuengine.com/rep/order_report?pid=64...hfor=RYAAY 
[ 
5]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair+Holdings+plc 
Load-Date: May 25, 2017
End of Document
Sun shines on Tui as broker praises holiday group's 'breadth' London
Sun shines on Tui as broker praises holiday group's 'breadth'; London
Financial Times (London, England)
May 25, 2017 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 29
Length: 438 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
Tui was in demand yesterday as travel and tourism operators led the London market higher.
Bernstein analysts repeated "outperform" advice on Tui , which climbed 2.8 per cent to £11.73.
The group's breadth "far exceeds that of rival package holiday companies", and that gave it "an ability to modernise, 
vertically integrate and expand into growth markets that rivals cannot match", the broker said. "This remains 
underappreciated, with consensus not yet reflecting the potential upside from its investment in new cruise ships and 
hotels, and the valuation not reflecting the strategic shift away from tour operation towards an asset owner."
Airlines gained after Michael O'Leary , the Ryanair chief executive, told reporters to expect a "strong set of results" 
next week, though he later backtracked and said the numbers would be "in line with our current guidance". Ryanair 
was up 2.7 per cent to EUR17.38, a record high, while easyJet rose 3.3 per cent to £13.44.
Weaker sterling underpinned the wider market with the FTSE 100 ending up 0.4 per cent, or 29.61 points, at 
7,514.90 - just seven points below last week's record high .
WPP bounced 1.7 per cent to £17.01, having been under pressure on Tuesday after Sir Martin Sorrell , chief 
executive, told an investor meeting he could not explain the disconnect between strengthening economic data and 
weak global advertising spend. Liberum, which hosted the meeting, argued that the risk of a slow recovery was 
already more than priced into WPP shares.
Sun shines on Tui as broker praises holiday group's 'breadth' London
TalkTalk lost 3.2 per cent to 177p on a downgrade to "sell" from Goldman Sachs, which cited signs of increased 
discounting in the broadband market. About 90 per cent of UK homes have broadband, and TalkTalk is not 
significantly cheaper than competitors, so any return to subscriber growth would probably be at the expense of 
profitability, Goldman said.
Acacia Mining plunged 29.7 per cent to 305p after Tanzania's government accused the miner of under-reporting 
the gold in its concentrate exports by a factor of 10. The president fired his mining minister and dissolved the state 
audit committee while keeping in force a concentrate export ban.
"We see this placing the company's licence to operate under pressure," said RBC. "It is possible that Acacia could 
be cleared by any independent investigation, although international litigation looks increasingly likely."
Repairs insurer Homeserve faded 4.5 per cent to 742p after Citigroup and RBC advised taking profits on Tuesday's 
results-inspired rally.
Software reseller Softcat was 8.4 per cent lower at 419p on the unexpected news that CEO Martin Hellawell 
intends to step down.
Load-Date: May 24, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed 
Fortunes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
May 24, 2017 Wednesday 10:59 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 239 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.01% higher at 135.85 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Wednesday morning. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Edap (EDAP),  a French medical devices developer,1.8% higher, 
followed by Oasmia Pharmaceutical (OASM), up by 1.7% and STMicroelectronics - New York Shares (STM), an 
Italian semiconductor company, up by 1.4% and Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (ERIC), a telecommunication 
company, 1.3% higher. 
In the UK, Avadel (AVDL), a specialty pharmaceutical company, was 2.3% higher, followed by low-cost airline 
Ryanair (RYAAY), up by 2.1% and Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), trading 1.3% higher. WPP (WPPGY), an 
advertising agency, was 1.1% higher. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by argenx (ARGX), a Netherlands-based biopharmaceutical company, 
2.0% lower, followed by Deutsche Bank - Global Registered Shares (DB), 1.6% lower. Nokia (NOK), a technology 
investor, was down by 1.5% and Advanced Accelorator Appications (AAAP), a radiopharmaceutical company, was 
0.8% lower.
And, in the UK, Akari Therapeutics (AKTX), a development-stage biopharmaceutical company, was 6.8% lower, 
followed by Amec Foster Wheeler (AMFW), an engineering conglomerate, down by 2.2% and Verona Pharma 
(VRNA), a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, 1.9% lower. CRH (CRH), a building materials company, was 
1.0% lower. 
Price: 2.88, Change: +0.07, Percent Change: +2.49
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
Load-Date: May 25, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair to partner with Erasmus Student Network
Ryanair to partner with Erasmus Student Network
Business World (Digest)
May 24, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 351 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
It was announced yesterday that Ryanair has become the exclusive partner of the EU Erasmus Student Network, 
offering Erasmus students savings, fare discounts, free bags and tailored travel offers.    The Erasmus programme 
provides university students across Europe the chance to study in a different European city for a year, facilitating 
cultural and academic exchanges and enhancing language skills in 37 countries. Over 3 million students have 
benefitted under the Erasmus programme since its launch.    The benefits of the new scheme will include:   &bull; 
15% off flights on the Ryanair.com website &bull; A free checked-in bag with every flight booked &bull; A dedicated 
Erasmus Students booking portal &bull; Community forum to share travel hints & tips &bull; Weekly travel offers to 
enable Erasmus students more easily move across Europe &bull; Tailored Ryanair in-journey offers on the mobile 
app    Speaking yesterday, President of Erasmus Student Network, Safi Sabuni said, "The Erasmus Generation is a 
generation of Europeans that are perennially curious, open-minded and full of wanderlust. This is made possible not 
only through the success of the European project and initiatives such as Schengen and Erasmus+, but also thanks 
to companies like Ryanair – without which it would be much harder to travel around Europe. 
We are very excited about this partnership and look forward to a fruitful collaboration."     Ryanair’s CEO, Michael 
O’Leary added, "Ryanair has been a driving force of European integration over the past 30 years, providing young 
people, and especially students, with the freedom to fly across Europe on the lowest airfares. We are pleased to 
partner with the Erasmus Student Network, the latest initiative delivered under Year 4 of our “Always Getting Better” 
programme, which will offer university students across Europe a range of exclusive flight offers, free bags and 
tailored discounts to suit their budget, and allow them to save even more while they travel on Europe’s biggest 
airline with the widest route network and the lowest fares."
Source: www.businessworld.ie 
Ryanair to partner with Erasmus Student Network
Load-Date: June 7, 2017
End of Document
Hanson McClain Inc. Holds Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Hanson McClain Inc. Holds Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
May 24, 2017 Wednesday 1:56 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 724 words
Byline: Nicole Kennedy
Body
May 24, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Hanson McClain Inc. held its 
position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the first quarter, Holdings Channel[1] reports. 
The institutional investor owned 1,297 shares of the transportation company's stock at the end of the first quarter. 
Hanson McClain Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc were worth $108,000 as of its most recent filing with the 
SEC.  Other institutional investors have also modified their holdings of the company. Valinor Management L.P. 
purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter valued at approximately 
$32,115,000. Lazard Asset Management LLC boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 33.7% in the 
third quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 3,330,852 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $249,913,000 after buying an additional 838,744 shares during the last quarter. Arrowgrass Capital 
Partners US LP purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter valued at 
approximately $17,817,000. CSS LLC IL purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the third 
quarter valued at approximately $625,000. Finally, Two Sigma Advisers LP boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc by 10.5% in the third quarter. Two Sigma Advisers LP now owns 227,217 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $17,048,000 after buying an additional 21,587 shares during the last quarter. 
Institutional investors own 42.80% of the company's stock. Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) 
opened at 103.41 on Wednesday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of $104.43. 
The company has a 50-day moving average price of $92.84 and a 200 day moving average price of $85.40. The 
company has a market capitalization of $25.52 billion, a P/E ratio of 18.48 and a beta of 0.72.   
https://www.watchlistnews.com/hanson-mcclain-inc-holds-stake-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay/1302943.html. 
 
A 
number of brokerages have issued reports on RYAAY. Zacks Investment Research[3] raised Ryanair Holdings plc 
from a 'sell' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $109.00 target price for the company in a research report on Saturday, 
May 6th. Kepler Capital Markets cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on 
Friday, February 10th. Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a 
research report on Monday, February 13th. Finally, Canaccord Genuity began coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in 
a research report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. One investment analyst has 
rated the stock with a sell rating, four have assigned a hold rating and seven have assigned a buy rating to the 
stock. The stock has an average rating of 'Buy' and an average target price of $99.50. Ryanair Holdings plc 
Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). 
Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services 
Hanson McClain Inc. Holds Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled 
services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what 
other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades 
for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email 
address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc 
and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter[5]. [ 1]:            
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 5]:            https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-
email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair+Holdings+plc 
Load-Date: May 25, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded to "Hold" at ValuEngine
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded to "Hold" at ValuEngine
American Banking and Market News
May 24, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 547 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by investment analysts at       
     ValuEngine  from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a note issued to investors on Wednesday. 
A number of other research firms have also weighed in on RYAAY. Zacks Investment Research  raised Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a "sell" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $109.00 target price on the stock in a report on Saturday, 
May 6th. Kepler Capital Markets lowered Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on 
Friday, February 10th. Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a 
report on Monday, February 13th. Finally, Canaccord Genuity initiated coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a report 
on Thursday, January 26th. They set a "buy" rating on the stock. One equities research analyst  has rated the stock 
with a sell rating, five have assigned  a hold rating and seven have issued  a buy rating to the company. The 
company  has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average target price of $99.50. 
Analyst Recommendations for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY ) traded up 1.77% during midday trading on Wednesday, hitting 
$103.20. 290,644 shares of the stock traded hands. The company has a market capitalization of $25.46 billion, a 
PE ratio of 18.45 and a beta of 0.72. The firm's 50 day moving average price is $92.84 and its 200 day moving 
average price is $85.40. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $66.09 and a 12-month high of $104.43.   
A number of hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently modified their holdings of the stock. 
Quantbot Technologies LP purchased a new position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc during the first quarter 
worth approximately $106,000.  Tyers Asset Management LLC purchased a new position in shares of  Ryanair 
Holdings plc during the fourth quarter worth approximately $133,000.  FNY Partners Fund LP purchased a new 
position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc during the first quarter worth approximately $156,000.  Flinton Capital 
Management LLC purchased a new position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter worth 
approximately $161,000.  Finally, PNC Financial Services Group Inc. raised its position in shares of  Ryanair 
Holdings plc by 5.3% in the first quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. now owns 1,941 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $160,000 after buying an additional 98 shares in the last quarter. 42.80% of 
the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded to "Hold" at ValuEngine
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
To view ValuEngine's full report, visit ValuEngine's official website .   
Load-Date: June 21, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Earns Daily Coverage Optimism Score of 0.37
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Earns Daily Coverage Optimism Score of 0.37
American Banking and Market News
May 24, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 452 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Media stories about Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have trended positive 
recently, AlphaOne Sentiment Analysis reports. AlphaOne, a unit of Accern, scores the sentiment of news coverage 
by analyzing more than 20 million news and blog sources in real-time. AlphaOne ranks coverage of companies on a 
scale of negative one to one, with scores closest to one being the most favorable. Ryanair Holdings plc earned a 
news impact score of 0.37 on AlphaOne's scale. AlphaOne also gave headlines about the transportation company 
an impact score of 66 out of 100, indicating that recent news coverage is likely to have an impact on the stock's 
share price in the next few days.  
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY ) traded up 1.53% during midday trading on Tuesday, reaching $93.30. 
385,413 shares of the company traded hands. The firm has a market capitalization of $23.02 billion, a PE ratio of 
16.98 and a beta of 0.72. The company's 50-day moving average price is $86.07 and its 200 day moving average 
price is $82.66. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $66.09 and a 12 month high of $93.74.  
Several research firms have recently weighed in on RYAAY. Barclays PLC  reissued a "buy" rating on shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on Tuesday, January 10th. Zacks Investment Research downgraded 
shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "strong-buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Friday, January 
6th. Kepler Capital Markets cut shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research 
report on Friday, February 10th. Canaccord Genuity assumed coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a 
research report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a "buy" rating for the company. Finally, Bank of America Corp 
cut shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "neutral" rating to an "underperform" rating in a research report on 
Tuesday, January 3rd. Two research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, four have issued  a hold rating 
and six have assigned  a buy rating to the company. The company  has an average rating of "Hold" and an average 
target price of $93.00.  
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Earns Daily Coverage Optimism Score of 0.37
Load-Date: June 21, 2017
End of Document
Research Analysts' Downgrades for May, 24th (ACGBY, ANW, ATTO, AYA, BEP. UN , GPT , IMO , LXU, 
NVRO, PB)
Research Analysts' Downgrades for May, 24th (ACGBY, ANW, ATTO, AYA, 
BEP.UN, GPT, IMO, LXU, NVRO, PB)
American Banking and Market News
May 24, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 372 words
Body
Research Analysts' downgrades for Wednesday, May 24th: 
Agricultural Bank of China (NASDAQ:ACGBY) was downgraded by analysts at Zacks Investment Research  
from a buy rating to a hold rating. According to Zacks, "Agricultural Bank of China Limited provides various 
corporate and retail banking products and services for a broad range of customers and carry out treasury 
operations. The Banks services include RMB and foreign currency deposit, loan, international and domestic 
settlement, bill discount, currency trading, bank guarantee, and treasury bill underwriting. It also offers agro-related 
personal and corporate banking services, and electronic banking services consisting of Internet, telephone, mobile, 
and self-service banking services, as well as e-commerce systems. Agricultural Bank of China Limited is based in 
Beijing, China.   " 
Aegean Marine Petroleum Network (NYSE:ANW) was downgraded by analysts at Clarkson Capital from a buy 
rating to a neutral rating.  
Atento SA (NYSE:ATTO) was downgraded by analysts at ValuEngine  from a buy rating to a hold rating.  
Amaya (TSE:AYA) (NYSE:AYA) was downgraded by analysts at ValuEngine  from a strong-buy rating to a buy 
rating.  
Brookfield Renewable Partners (TSE:BEP.UN) (NYSE:BEP) was downgraded by analysts at BMO Capital 
Markets from an outperform rating to a market perform rating.  
Gramercy Property Trust (NYSE:GPT) was downgraded by analysts at ValuEngine  from a buy rating to a hold 
rating.  
Imperial Oil (TSE:IMO) (NYSEMKT:IMO) was downgraded by analysts at CIBC from an outperform rating to a 
neutral rating. They currently have C$45.00 target price on the stock, down from their previous target price of 
C$50.00.  
LSB Industries (NYSE:LXU) was downgraded by analysts at ValuEngine  from a sell rating to a strong sell rating.  
Nevro Corp (NYSE:NVRO) was downgraded by analysts at ValuEngine  from a hold rating to a sell rating.  
Research Analysts' Downgrades for May, 24th (ACGBY, ANW, ATTO, AYA, BEP. UN , GPT , IMO , LXU, 
NVRO, PB)
Prosperity Bancshares (NYSE:PB) was downgraded by analysts at ValuEngine  from a buy rating to a hold rating.  
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by analysts at ValuEngine  from a buy rating to a hold 
rating.  
Stamps.com (NASDAQ:STMP) was downgraded by analysts at ValuEngine  from a buy rating to a hold rating.   
Load-Date: June 21, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Stake Maintained by Clal Insurance Enterprises Holdings Ltd
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Stake Maintained by Clal Insurance 
Enterprises Holdings Ltd
DailyPolitical
May 24, 2017 Wednesday 5:18 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 840 words
Byline: Patrick Bannon
Body
May 24, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Clal Insurance Enterprises 
Holdings Ltd maintained its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the first quarter, 
Holdings Channel[1] reports. The institutional investor owned 6,000 shares of the transportation company's stock at 
the end of the first quarter. Clal Insurance Enterprises Holdings Ltd's holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc were worth 
$498,000 at the end of the most recent reporting period. 
 A number of other institutional investors have also recently modified their holdings of the stock. Capital Research 
Global Investors boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 17.2% in the third quarter. Capital 
Research Global Investors now owns 8,373,690 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$628,278,000 after buying an additional 1,230,762 shares in the last quarter. Capital International Investors raised 
its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.6% in the third quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 
4,380,192 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $328,646,000 after buying an additional 70,214 
shares during the last quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 
33.7% in the third quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 3,330,852 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $249,913,000 after buying an additional 838,744 shares during the last quarter. Janus 
Capital Management LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 126.4% in the fourth quarter. Janus 
Capital Management LLC now owns 3,101,381 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$258,254,000 after buying an additional 1,731,481 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Renaissance 
Technologies LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 2.0% in the fourth quarter. Renaissance 
Technologies LLC now owns 2,329,108 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $193,922,000 after 
buying an additional 45,000 shares during the last quarter. 42.80% of the stock is owned by institutional investors. 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded up 1.54% during midday trading on Wednesday, reaching 
$102.97. 169,621 shares of the company were exchanged. The company has a 50-day moving average of $92.84 
and a 200 day moving average of $85.40. The firm has a market capitalization of $25.41 billion, a PE ratio of 18.40 
and a beta of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $66.09 and a 52 week high of $104.43.  
https://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/05/24/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-stake-maintained-by-clal-insurance-
enterprises-holdings-ltd.html.  A number of brokerages have recently weighed in on RYAAY. Canaccord Genuity 
began coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on Thursday, January 26th. They issued a 'buy' rating 
for the company. Zacks Investment Research[3] upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 
'buy' rating and set a $109.00 price objective for the company in a report on Saturday, May 6th. Deutsche Bank AG 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Stake Maintained by Clal Insurance Enterprises Holdings Ltd
upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a report on Monday, February 13th. 
Finally, Kepler Capital Markets lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a 
report on Friday, February 10th. One research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, four have assigned a 
hold rating and seven have assigned a buy rating to the stock. Ryanair Holdings plc currently has an average rating 
of 'Buy' and a consensus target price of $99.50. Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc 
(Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, 
scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities 
connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and 
the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? 
Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to 
receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related 
companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter[5]. [ 1]:            http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:       
  
 
 
 
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 5]:            https://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair%20Holdings%20plc 
Load-Date: May 25, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Given Media Sentiment Score of 0.10
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Given Media Sentiment Score of 0.10
DailyPolitical
May 24, 2017 Wednesday 9:18 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 591 words
Byline: Patrick Bannon
Body
May 24, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Media coverage about Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has trended somewhat positive this week, according to Alpha One. Alpha One, a 
subsidiary of Accern, identifies positive and negative news coverage by monitoring more than 20 million blog and 
news sources. Alpha One ranks coverage of public companies on a scale of -1 to 1, with scores closest to one 
being the most favorable. 
Ryanair Holdings plc earned a coverage optimism score of 0.10 on Alpha One's scale. Alpha One also assigned 
media headlines about the transportation company an impact score of 40 out of 100, indicating that recent news 
coverage is unlikely to have an effect on the company's share price in the near future.  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded up 1.96% during midday trading on Wednesday, hitting $103.40. The stock had a 
trading volume of 353,556 shares. The firm has a 50-day moving average price of $92.84 and a 200-day moving 
average price of $85.40. The firm has a market capitalization of $25.51 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 18.48 and 
a beta of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of $104.43.  Several equities 
research analysts recently commented on RYAAY shares. Kepler Capital Markets cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a 
'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Friday, February 10th. Canaccord Genuity started coverage on 
Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on Thursday, January 26th. They issued a 'buy' rating for the company. 
Zacks Investment Research[2] raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $109.00 
price target for the company in a research note on Saturday, May 6th. Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings 
plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research note on Monday, February 13th. Finally, ValuEngine[3] cut 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Wednesday. One investment analyst 
has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have assigned a hold rating and seven have given a buy rating to the 
company. Ryanair Holdings plc currently has an average rating of 'Hold' and an average price target of $99.50.  
https://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/05/24/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-given-media-sentiment-score-of-0-10.html.   
About Ryanair Holdings plc Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited 
(Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes 
between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Receive 
News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE 
daily email newsletter[4]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Given Media Sentiment Score of 0.10
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?ValuEngine=1...bol=RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair%20Holdings%20plc 
Load-Date: May 25, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair announces long-haul partnership with Air Europa
Ryanair announces long-haul partnership with Air Europa
City A.M.
May 24, 2017 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 87 words
Byline: REBECCA SMITH
Body
RYANAIR yesterday announced a new flight partnership with one of Spain's biggest airlines, Air Europa.
The agreement will allow its customers to book Air Europa longhaul flights on the Ryanair website, spanning 20 
routes from Madrid to 16 countries in North, Central and South America. Destinations include Argentina, Brazil, 
Cuba, Mexico and the US.
The Irish carrier said the second phase of its Air Europa partnership will be launched later this year, allowing its 
customers to connect onto Air Europa flights through Madrid.
Graphic
 
Ryanair has already announced plans to team up with Norwegian
Load-Date: May 24, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair website to sell Air Europa long haul flights
Ryanair website to sell Air Europa long haul flights
Business World (Digest)
May 23, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 247 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
A new flight partnership has been announced today between Ryanair and Air Europa which will allow its 130m 
customers to book Air Europa long haul flights on the Ryanair.com website.    From today, customers can browse 
and book Air Europa flights on 20 long haul routes from Madrid to 16 countries in North, Central and South 
America. This will include Argentina, Brazil, Cuba, Mexico and the United States.    The second phase of this Air 
Europa partnership will be launched later this year and will allow Ryanair customers to connect onto Air Europa 
long haul flights through Madrid. 
Ryanair is continuing its discussions with a number of other long haul airlines on potential feed and connecting flight 
partnerships.    The new Air Europa partnership is the latest initiative delivered under Year 4 of Ryanair’s “Always 
Getting Better” customer experience programme, and follows the launch of Ryanair’s connecting flight service via 
Rome Fiumicino last week.    Speaking today, Ryanair CEO, Michael O’Leary said, "We are pleased to announce 
this exciting partnership with Air Europa, which allows our customers to browse and book flights on 20 long routes 
from Madrid to exciting cities in Argentina, Brazil, Cuba, Mexico and the USA on the Ryanair.com website. Ryanair 
operates over 50 short haul routes to/from Madrid and now our customers can book  flights on  Air Europa long haul 
routes to destinations including Buenos Aires, Havana and New York."
Source: www.businessworld.ie 
Load-Date: June 6, 2017
End of Document
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 23.05.2017 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 23.05.2017 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
May 23, 2017 Tuesday 8:54 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 317 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - The following investment banks issued recommendations this morning as follows:  
Analyst recommendations in the dpa-AFX International ProFeed on 23.05.2017 - 08.50 am  - GOLDMAN CUTS 
GRAND CITY PROPERTIES PRICE TARGET TO 18.20 (18.90) EUR - 'NEUTRAL' - GOLDMAN RAISES 
DEUTSCHE WOHNEN PRICE TARGET TO 30.00 (29.20) EUR - 'SELL' - HSBC RAISES BMW TO 'HOLD' 
(REDUCE) - PRICE TARGET 85 (75) EUR - LBBW RAISES MORPHOSYS PRICE TARGET TO 68 (64) EUR - 
'BUY' - MAINFIRST RAISES SCHAEFFLER PRICE TARGET TO 18 (17) EUR - 'OUTPERFORM' - METZLER 
CUTS BECHTLE TO 'SELL' (HOLD) - PRICE TARGET 94 EUR - UBS RAISES KLOECKNER & CO TO 
'NEUTRAL' (SELL) - PRICE TARGET 10.00 (9.40) EUR  - BERENBERG RAISES SCAPA GROUP PRICE 
TARGET TO 480 (400) PENCE - 'BUY' - BERNSTEIN CUTS ADMIRAL GROUP PRICE TARGET TO 1845 (2000) 
PENCE - MARKET-PERFORM - BERNSTEIN CUTS DIRECT LINE PRICE TARGET TO 330 (360) PENCE - 
'MARKET-PERFORM' - CITIGROUP CUTS LONMIN TO 'SELL' ('NEUTRAL') - TARGET 95 (119) PENCE - 
BERNSTEIN RAISES LAFARGEHOLCIM TO 'OUTPERFORM' - PRICE TARGET 64 (54) SFR - GOLDMAN CUTS 
ARROW GLOBAL TO 'NEUTRAL' ('BUY') - GOLDMAN CUTS HUNTING TO 'BUY' ('CONVICTION BUY LIST') - 
TARGET 686 (774) PENCE - GOLDMAN CUTS RANDGOLD RESOURCES PRICE TARGET TO 7700 (8000) 
PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - HSBC RAISES HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PRICE TARGET TO 1410 (1390) PENCE - 
'HOLD' - HSBC RAISES MARSTONS PRICE TARGET TO 150 (130) PENCE - 'HOLD' - RBC CAPITAL RAISES 
RYANAIR PRICE TARGET TO 20.50 (17.50) EUR - 'OUTPERFORM' - RBC RAISES EASYJET TO SECTOR 
PERFORM (UNDERPERFORM) - TARGET 1325 (875) PENCE - SOCGEN RAISES NESTLE PRICE TARGET TO 
93 (85) SFR - 'BUY' - UBS RAISES ARCELORMITTAL TO 'NEUTRAL' (SELL) - PRICE TARGET 21.50 (17.10) 
EUR  - TRADERS: BAADER BANK RAISES PRICE TARGET D\xDCRR TO 110 (85) EUR - 'BUY'  dpa-AFX 
Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH assumes no liability for the  correctness of this information./rob    
Load-Date: May 23, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair becomes exclusive partner of EU Erasmus Student Network
Ryanair becomes exclusive partner of EU Erasmus Student Network
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
May 23, 2017 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 398 words
Highlight: Ryanair Holdings PLC has announced that it has become the exclusive partner of the EU Erasmus 
Student Network, offering Erasmus students' huge savings, with fare discounts, free bags and tailored travel offers.
Body
Celebrating its 30th anniversary, the Erasmus program provides university students across Europe the chance to 
study in a different European city for a year, facilitating cultural and academic exchanges and enhancing language 
skills in 37 countries. Over 3 million students have benefitted under the Erasmus program since its launch.Delivered 
as part of Year 4 of Ryanair&#39;s "Always Getting Better" program, this Erasmus partnership will offer Student 
members 15% off flights on the Ryanair.com website; a free checked-in bag with every flight booked; a dedicated 
Erasmus Students booking portal; community forum to share travel hints & tips; weekly travel offers to enable 
Erasmus students more easily move across Europe, and tailored Ryanair in-journey offers on the mobile 
app.Violeta Bulc, EU Commissioner for Transport said:"These discounts will help students broaden their horizons, 
and learn first-hand about the richness, diversity and beauty of our wonderful continent! This partnership between 
one of the largest European airlines and one of the largest exchange student organizations is something I hope 
other transport providers will be inspired to follow. 
I would like to thank Ryanair for launching such an initiative."In Brussels, Ryanair&#39;s Michael O&#39;Leary 
said:"Ryanair has been a driving force of European integration over the past 30 years, providing young people, and 
especially students, with the freedom to fly across Europe on the lowest airfares. We are pleased to partner with the 
Erasmus Student Network, the latest initiative delivered under Year 4 of our "Always Getting Better" program, which 
will offer university students across Europe a range of exclusive flight offers, free bags and tailored discounts to suit 
their budget, and allow them to save even more while they travel on Europe&#39;s biggest airline with the widest 
route network and the lowest fares."President of Erasmus Student Network, Safi Sabuni said:"The Erasmus 
Generation is a generation of Europeans that are perennially curious, open-minded and full of wanderlust. This is 
made possible not only through the success of the European project and initiatives such as Schengen and 
Erasmus+, but also thanks to companies like Ryanair-without which it would be much harder to travel around 
Europe. We are very excited about this partnership and look forward to a fruitful collaboration."
Ryanair becomes exclusive partner of EU Erasmus Student Network
Load-Date: June 13, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Announces Partnership With Air Europa
Ryanair Announces Partnership With Air Europa
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
May 23, 2017 Tuesday 12:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 108 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) announced a new flight partnership with Air 
Europa, which will allow its customers to book Air Europa long haul flights on the Ryanair website. From May 23, 
customers can browse and book Air Europa flights on 20 long haul routes from Madrid to 16 countries. The second 
phase of the partnership will be launched later in the current year and will allow Ryanair customers to connect onto 
Air Europa long haul flights through Madrid.   Ryanair said the company is continuing its discussions with a number 
of other long haul airlines on potential feed and connecting flight partnerships.      
Load-Date: May 23, 2017
End of Document
$0.24 Earnings Per Share Expected for Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) This Quarter
$0.24 Earnings Per Share Expected for Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) This 
Quarter
American Banking and Market News
May 22, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 686 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Equities analysts predict that Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) will announce 
$0.24 earnings per share (EPS) for the current fiscal quarter, according to            Zacks . Zero analysts have issued 
estimates for Ryanair Holdings plc's earnings. Ryanair Holdings plc posted earnings of $0.25 per share during the 
same quarter last year, which indicates a negative year-over-year growth rate of 4%. The company is scheduled to 
announce its next earnings results  on Monday, May 22nd. 
According to Zacks, analysts expect that Ryanair Holdings plc will report full-year earnings of $5.67 per share for 
the current fiscal year, with EPS estimates ranging from $5.56 to $5.78. For the next year, analysts expect that the 
business will post earnings of $5.97 per share, with EPS estimates ranging from $5.56 to $6.38. Zacks Investment 
Research's earnings per share calculations are an average based on a survey of sell-side analysts that follow 
Ryanair Holdings plc. 
A number of brokerages recently issued reports on RYAAY. Zacks Investment Research lowered shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a "strong-buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Friday, January 6th. Deutsche Bank 
AG upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Monday, 
February 13th. Canaccord Genuity started coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on 
Thursday, January 26th. They issued a "buy" rating on the stock. Barclays PLC  restated a "buy" rating on shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on Tuesday, January 10th. Finally, Kepler Capital Markets downgraded 
shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Friday, February 10th. 
Two equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, four have assigned  a hold rating and six 
have given a buy rating to the company. The company presently has a consensus rating of "Hold" and a consensus 
target price of $93.00. 
Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY ) opened at 95.80 on Thursday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-
week low of $66.09 and a 52-week high of $95.94. The stock has a 50 day moving average of $86.50 and a 200 
day moving average of $82.75. The firm has a market cap of $23.64 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 17.43 and a 
beta of 0.72.  
A number of hedge funds have recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. Arrowgrass Capital Partners US LP 
acquired a new stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter worth about $17,817,000.  CSS LLC IL 
purchased a new position in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter worth $625,000.  Two Sigma Advisers LP 
increased its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 10.5% in the third quarter. Two Sigma Advisers LP now owns 
$0.24 Earnings Per Share Expected for Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) This Quarter
227,217 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $17,048,000 after buying an additional 21,587 shares 
during the period.  Profund Advisors LLC increased its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 9.0% in the third quarter. 
Profund Advisors LLC now owns 11,970 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $898,000 after buying 
an additional 990 shares during the period.  Finally, Segantii Capital Management Ltd purchased a new position in  
Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter worth $7,790,000. 42.80% of the stock is owned by institutional 
investors and hedge funds.  
About Ryanair Holdings plc
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Get a free copy of the Zacks research report on Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) 
For more information about research offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com 
Load-Date: June 21, 2017
End of Document
ANALYSIS: Brexit process heralds complex aviation challenges Rigas Doganis, chairman of the European 
Aviation Club in Brussels and visiting professor at Cranfie....
ANALYSIS: Brexit process heralds complex aviation challenges; Rigas 
Doganis, chairman of the European Aviation Club in Brussels and visiting 
professor at Cranfield University, explores the process ahead for the UK as 
it attempts to forge a new aviation relationship with the EU
Flight International
May 22, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 1631 words
Body
Rigas Doganis, chairman of the European Aviation Club in Brussels and visiting professor at Cranfield University, 
explores the process ahead for the UK as it attempts to forge a new aviation relationship with the EU
And so it begins. Brexit is becoming a reality. The UK has launched the process of leaving the European Union. For 
air transport, uncertainty prevails. Here, as in other sectors, new arrangements have to be agreed.
One of the successes of the EU has been the creation of the internal aviation market encompassing 28 member 
states plus Norway, Switzerland and Iceland. Airfares within Europe have dropped dramatically, traffic has grown 
steadily, and hundreds of new direct air links have been launched, many from new or previously underserved 
airports. Common rules on safety, security and the environment have been agreed. British consumers and airlines 
have benefited enormously.
Much is now at risk. Negotiating a new aviation relationship between the UK and the EU will be difficult and 
complex. It involves much more than traffic rights and airline ownership rules, although these are key issues. Any 
negotiations will also impact on the UK's air links with many more countries and airlines than just those in the EU.
There are several key areas for renegotiation.
First, a series of EU "liberalisation packages" have created an open-skies market within which member-state 
airlines can fly between any two points with no controls on fares or capacity.
So the UK's EasyJet can set up a base with 15 or so aircraft in Milan with Italian crews and fly to anywhere in 
Europe. Ryanair, an Irish airline, has by far its largest base at London Stansted. EU citizens or companies can set 
up and manage an airline in any of the member states, in addition to their own, provided more than 50% of 
ownership is in EU hands. How far can the UK continue to enjoy Europe's open skies?
ANALYSIS: Brexit process heralds complex aviation challenges Rigas Doganis, chairman of the European 
Aviation Club in Brussels and visiting professor at Cranfie....
If the UK ends up outside the European aviation market then EasyJet would have to set up an EU subsidiary, with 
more than 50% held by EU citizens or companies, in order to operate its extensive European network outside the 
UK. Conversely, Ryanair might find that, with its large British shareholders no longer qualifying as EU citizens, it 
might no longer be defined as an EU airline, given that it already has a large US shareholder base. It may also lose 
its rights to fly from its numerous UK bases to points in the EU other than Ireland.
REGULATION QUESTIONS
Second, in parallel to the "liberalisation packages", there are more than 250 EU regulations and directives which 
take effect in UK laws. Some are very aviation specific; for instance, those dealing with passenger rights or airport 
charges. Others are more general but have a direct impact on aviation, such as those related to competition law, 
including control of mergers.
Third, the UK benefits from a series of air transport agreements signed by the EU with countries such as Morocco 
and Jordan, regulating air services between them and EU member states.
The Commission has a mandate to negotiate further agreements with the United Arab Emirates and the ASEAN 
countries. The most significant to date is the EU-US open-skies agreement. This permits any EU airline to fly from 
anywhere in the EU to any point in the US without price or capacity limitations. US airlines can do the reverse. This 
enables a British Airways subsidiary to operate from Paris to New York and Norwegian to fly from London Gatwick 
to Boston. It also allows for joint-venture agreements between US and EU airlines. There are restrictions on 
ownership, although they differ either side of the Atlantic.
There is a similar open-skies agreement between the EU and Canada. Outside the EU, the UK will no longer be 
party to these agreements.
Finally, the UK is directly involved in several European aviation initiatives such as the European Aviation Safety 
Agency, the Single European Sky project for improving air traffic control, and the European Investment Bank which, 
among other things, funds airport development.
What are the options open to the UK if it wishes to maximise the benefits of access to the European internal 
aviation market?
The UK could become a member of the European Economic Area, as Norway and Iceland have done without being 
members of the EU. This would give the UK access to the European free trade area and also full access to the 
European aviation market. Westminster has expressed a reluctance to join the EEA, especially if it has to pay a 
substantial annual fee as Norway does. Norway also implements all EU aviation regulations without having any say 
or voting rights, and is required to accept both free movement of people and the decisions of the European Court of 
Justice (ECJ).
An alternative might be the Swiss model, a bilateral agreement with the EU covering aviation. In 2002, Switzerland, 
not an EU member, adopted and applied all the then-existing EU aviation rules or "acquis" on market access, 
pricing and so on, and thereby joined the European Common Aviation Area. But unlike Norway, Switzerland was 
not obliged to adopt any subsequent EU aviation directives or the decisions of the ECJ, although it tends do so. 
Like Norway, it accepted free movement of people. A 2014 referendum vote rejected further free movement, but the 
Swiss government has still to implement this.
However, since the UK's Conservative government wants to impose controls on immigration and intends to 
withdraw from the ECJ, both the Norwegian and Swiss models are nonstarters.
A third and simpler option would be for the UK to apply to join the European Common Aviation Area, as several 
non-EU and even non-European countries have done, including Serbia, Morocco and Jordan. These countries gain 
progressively more access and rights to the European markets as they accept and enforce more and more of the 
EU's aviation regulations. As the UK has already accepted all of these, it should be able to gain full access to the 
ANALYSIS: Brexit process heralds complex aviation challenges Rigas Doganis, chairman of the European 
Aviation Club in Brussels and visiting professor at Cranfie....
ECAA, including the right of establishment. Free movement of people may not be a requirement. But the UK would 
have no say in future regulations, which it would have to accept. It would become a minor player with little influence 
on future European aviation policies.
The last, and least attractive, option would be to negotiate separate bilateral air services agreements with each of 
the EU member states, which would take many years. Or the UK could revert to the pre-existing bilateral 
agreements. But most of these were rather restrictive.
None of these options appears ideal. The solution could be a bespoke bilateral agreement between the UK and the 
EU similar to the EU-US open-skies agreement. It could, like the US agreement, contain certain restrictions agreed 
to by both sides. It could also have a dispute resolution mechanism which was separate from the ECJ.
SHORT-TERM FIX
The UK negotiators also need to decide how to deal with the 250-plus aviation-related EU regulations. The 
government has stated that the "great repeal bill" will transpose all EU legislation into UK domestic law. But that can 
only be a short-term measure. Parliament will then amend, repeal and improve these laws as necessary. But this 
will be a very slow legislative nightmare. Inevitably, the rules governing aviation on both sides of the Channel will 
diverge.
Half of all passengers departing the UK land at EU airports where they, and British airlines carrying them, will 
continue to be subject both to current and future EU regulations and any decisions by the ECJ. Yet one of the UK 
government's stated objectives with Brexit is to escape the jurisdiction of the ECJ.
The EU's agreements with third countries create another negotiating nightmare. When the UK leaves the EU, the 
latter's agreements with countries such as Morocco, Jordan, Canada and the USA would no longer cover air 
services between those countries and the UK.
Does the UK government start negotiating new bilateral agreements or does it, at least in the short term, revert to 
the pre-EU bilaterals with these countries? The old US-UK bilateral air services agreement, still in force for services 
between the USA and British Caribbean territories, contains many illiberal rules. For instance, under this pre-
existing bilateral, Delta Air Lines would not have access to Heathrow. The joint venture between American and 
British Airways would be in jeopardy. Norwegian's ability to fly from London Gatwick and Edinburgh to the USA 
might also be questioned.
The final challenge will be to agree on the UK's future role in EASA, the European Investment Bank and many other 
EU institutions.
For UK consumers and airlines, safeguarding the benefits of European open skies will be a priority. But the 27 EU 
member states and their airlines may not necessarily have the same objectives. Carsten Spohr, chief executive of 
Lufthansa, in late March said he expected France and Germany to take a hard line on aviation issues.
Unfortunately, progress in aviation is dependent on resolving other key issues, notably those involving trade 
relations and the free movement of people. Trade is the big unknown, and resolving the UK's future trade links with 
the EU will take time.
The UK as a tourist destination may well favour visa-free travel for EU nationals while maintaining restrictions on 
inward migration for work. But will the EU and member states be prepared to accept any such restrictions in order 
to keep the UK within the European internal aviation market? This could be a major stumbling block.
Negotiations on so many air transport issues will be complex and time-consuming. They will affect not only British 
and European airlines but many others too. It is impossible to believe that all these issues can be sorted out and 
agreed within two years. Transitional arrangements seem inevitable.
ANALYSIS: Brexit process heralds complex aviation challenges Rigas Doganis, chairman of the European 
Aviation Club in Brussels and visiting professor at Cranfie....
Load-Date: May 22, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Given Consensus Rating of "Hold" by Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Given Consensus Rating of "Hold" by 
Brokerages
American Banking and Market News
May 21, 2017 Sunday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 582 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have been assigned a consensus 
rating of "Hold" from the twelve brokerages that are presently  covering the firm. Two investment analysts have 
rated the stock with a sell recommendation, four have given a hold recommendation and six have given a buy 
recommendation to  the company. The average 12-month target price among brokerages that have issued a report 
on the stock in the last year is $90.00.  
Several research firms have recently commented on RYAAY. Barclays PLC  reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Tuesday, January 10th. Zacks Investment Research lowered shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a "strong-buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Friday, January 6th. Kepler 
Capital Markets lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on 
Friday, February 10th. Canaccord Genuity began coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report 
on Thursday, January 26th. They issued a "buy" rating on the stock. Finally, Deutsche Bank AG upgraded shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Monday, February 13th. 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY ) traded up 0.39% during midday trading on Friday, reaching $97.70. The 
company had a trading volume of 240,385 shares. The stock has a market capitalization of $24.11 billion, a PE ratio 
of 17.78 and a beta of 0.72. The firm's 50 day moving average is $87.29 and its 200 day moving average is $82.97. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of $99.13.  
Hedge funds have recently made changes to their positions in the company. Scout Investments Inc. raised its stake 
in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc by 36.7% in the first quarter. Scout Investments Inc. now owns 399,285 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $34,267,000 after buying an additional 107,287 shares during the period.  
Ameriprise Financial Inc. raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc by 2.6% in the first quarter. Ameriprise 
Financial Inc. now owns 1,376,756 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $114,245,000 after buying 
an additional 35,330 shares during the period.  Lafayette Investments Inc. raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair 
Holdings plc by 18.5% in the first quarter. Lafayette Investments Inc. now owns 55,725 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $4,624,000 after buying an additional 8,700 shares during the period.  Karp Capital 
Management Corp purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc during the first quarter worth about 
$4,028,000.  Finally, Teza Capital Management LLC purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc 
during the first quarter worth about $455,000. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own  42.80% of the 
company's stock.  
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Given Consensus Rating of "Hold" by Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Load-Date: June 21, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Upgraded by Zacks Investment Research to "Buy"
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Upgraded by Zacks Investment Research to 
"Buy"
American Banking and Market News
May 20, 2017 Saturday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 610 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was upgraded by Zacks Investment 
Research from a "sell" rating to a "buy" rating in a report issued on Saturday. The firm currently has a $109.00 price 
target on the transportation company's stock. Zacks Investment Research's target price indicates a potential upside 
of 11.57% from the company's previous close.  
According to Zacks, "Ryanair operates an ultra-low cost, scheduled airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes 
largely in Europe from its bases in airports across Europe. The company offers over 1,600 scheduled short-haul 
flights per day serving airports largely throughout Europe, with a principal fleet of Boeing 737-800 aircraft.   " 
RYAAY has been the subject of several other reports. Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Monday, February 13th. Canaccord Genuity assumed coverage on 
Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a "buy" rating for the company. 
Barclays PLC  reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Tuesday, January 
10th. Finally, Kepler Capital Markets lowered Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a 
research report on Friday, February 10th. One investment analyst  has rated the stock with a sell rating, four have 
assigned  a hold rating and seven have issued  a buy rating to the company's stock. The company presently has a 
consensus rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $99.50. 
Analyst Recommendations for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY ) opened at 97.70 on Friday. The company has a market cap of 
$24.11 billion, a P/E ratio of 17.78 and a beta of 0.72. The stock's 50 day moving average price is $87.40 and its 
200-day moving average price is $83.06. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $66.09 and a 52-week high of 
$99.13.  
A number of hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently made changes to their positions in the 
company. Tyers Asset Management LLC acquired a new position in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter 
valued at $133,000.  Flinton Capital Management LLC acquired a new position in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the 
fourth quarter valued at $161,000.  Castleark Management LLC raised its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 
18.0% in the fourth quarter. Castleark Management LLC now owns 2,095 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $174,000 after buying an additional 320 shares during the period.  Commerzbank 
Aktiengesellschaft FI acquired a new position in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter valued at $212,000.  
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Upgraded by Zacks Investment Research to "Buy"
Finally, Conning Inc. acquired a new position in  Ryanair Holdings plc during the first quarter valued at $224,000. 
42.80% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Get a free copy of the Zacks research report on Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) 
For more information about research offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com 
Load-Date: June 21, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Mirae Asset Global Investments Co. Ltd.
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Mirae Asset Global 
Investments Co. Ltd.
DailyPolitical
May 20, 2017 Saturday 7:18 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 776 words
Byline: Stacy Sanders
Body
May 20, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Mirae Asset Global Investments 
Co. Ltd. increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 4.5% during the first quarter, Holdings 
Channel[1] reports. 
The institutional investor owned 78,632 shares of the transportation company's stock after buying an additional 
3,386 shares during the period. Mirae Asset Global Investments Co. Ltd.'s holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc were 
worth $6,525,000 at the end of the most recent reporting period.  Other large investors also recently modified their 
holdings of the company. Janus Capital Management LLC boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 126.4% in 
the fourth quarter. Janus Capital Management LLC now owns 3,101,381 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $258,254,000 after buying an additional 1,731,481 shares during the last quarter. Capital Research 
Global Investors boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 17.2% in the third quarter. Capital Research Global 
Investors now owns 8,373,690 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $628,278,000 after buying 
an additional 1,230,762 shares during the last quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC boosted its position in 
Ryanair Holdings plc by 33.7% in the third quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 3,330,852 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $249,913,000 after buying an additional 838,744 shares during the 
last quarter. Valinor Management L.P. acquired a new position in Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter 
valued at about $32,115,000. Finally, Russell Investments Group Ltd. acquired a new position in Ryanair Holdings 
plc during the fourth quarter valued at about $32,424,000. 42.80% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds 
and other institutional investors. Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded up 1.00% on Friday, hitting 
$100.62. The stock had a trading volume of 198,664 shares. The firm has a market cap of $24.83 billion, a P/E ratio 
of 17.98 and a beta of 0.72. The firm's 50-day moving average price is $91.81 and its 200-day moving average 
price is $84.89. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of $101.48.  
https://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/05/19/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-shares-bought-by-mirae-asset-global-
investments-co-ltd.html.  Several research firms have recently issued reports on RYAAY. Zacks Investment 
Research[3] raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $109.00 price target for the 
company in a research note on Saturday, May 6th. Kepler Capital Markets cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' 
rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Friday, February 10th. Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings plc 
from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research note on Monday, February 13th. Finally, Canaccord Genuity began 
coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on Thursday, January 26th. They issued a 'buy' rating for the 
company. One research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, four have assigned a hold rating and seven 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Mirae Asset Global Investments Co. Ltd.
have issued a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock has a consensus rating of 'Buy' and an average target 
price of $99.50. Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding 
company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving 
short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. 
Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger 
service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food 
and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get 
the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for 
Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news 
and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[5]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 5]:            https://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair%20Holdings%20plc 
Load-Date: May 20, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Stake Maintained by Tyers Asset Management LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Stake Maintained by Tyers Asset 
Management LLC
DailyPolitical
May 18, 2017 Thursday 3:18 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 822 words
Byline: Jeff Wilder
Body
May 18, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Tyers Asset Management LLC 
maintained its position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the first quarter, according to its most 
recent disclosure with the SEC. The institutional investor owned 1,596 shares of the transportation company's stock 
at the end of the first quarter. Tyers Asset Management LLC's holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc were worth 
$132,000 at the end of the most recent quarter. 
 Other hedge funds and other institutional investors also recently bought and sold shares of the company. Capital 
Research Global Investors increased its position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 17.2% in the third quarter. Capital 
Research Global Investors now owns 8,373,690 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $628,278,000 
after buying an additional 1,230,762 shares in the last quarter. Capital International Investors increased its stake in 
Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.6% in the third quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 4,380,192 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $328,646,000 after buying an additional 70,214 shares during the period. 
Lazard Asset Management LLC increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 33.7% in the third quarter. Lazard 
Asset Management LLC now owns 3,330,852 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $249,913,000 
after buying an additional 838,744 shares during the period. Janus Capital Management LLC increased its stake in 
Ryanair Holdings plc by 126.4% in the fourth quarter. Janus Capital Management LLC now owns 3,101,381 shares 
of the transportation company's stock worth $258,254,000 after buying an additional 1,731,481 shares during the 
period. Finally, Renaissance Technologies LLC increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 2.0% in the fourth 
quarter. Renaissance Technologies LLC now owns 2,329,108 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$193,922,000 after buying an additional 45,000 shares during the period. 42.80% of the stock is owned by 
institutional investors. Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded down 0.19% during trading on Thursday, 
reaching $99.74. The company's stock had a trading volume of 37,220 shares. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week 
low of $66.09 and a 52-week high of $101.36. The firm has a market capitalization of $24.61 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of 17.83 and a beta of 0.72. The stock's 50-day moving average is $90.83 and its 200 day moving 
average is $84.59.   https://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/05/18/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-stake-maintained-by-
tyers-asset-management-llc.html.   A number of analysts recently issued reports on the stock. Zacks Investment 
Research[2] raised shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $109.00 target price 
for the company in a research report on Saturday, May 6th. Kepler Capital Markets downgraded shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Friday, February 10th. Deutsche Bank AG 
raised shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research report on Monday, February 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Stake Maintained by Tyers Asset Management LLC
13th. Finally, Canaccord Genuity assumed coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on 
Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. One research analyst has rated the stock with a 
sell rating, four have issued a hold rating and seven have assigned a buy rating to the company. Ryanair Holdings 
plc currently has an average rating of 'Buy' and an average target price of $99.50. Ryanair Holdings plc Company 
Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair 
operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, 
the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and 
engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, 
Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge 
funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address 
below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and 
related 
companies 
with 
MarketBeat.com's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            https://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair%20Holdings%20plc 
Load-Date: May 19, 2017
End of Document
Flinton Capital Management LLC Maintains Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Flinton Capital Management LLC Maintains Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
May 18, 2017 Thursday 5:20 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 734 words
Byline: Latisha Jones
Body
May 18, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Flinton Capital Management LLC 
maintained its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the first quarter, according to its 
most recent Form 13F filing with the SEC. The institutional investor owned 1,938 shares of the transportation 
company's stock at the end of the first quarter. Flinton Capital Management LLC's holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc 
were worth $161,000 as of its most recent SEC filing. 
 Several other hedge funds also recently made changes to their positions in the company. Tyers Asset 
Management LLC acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter valued at about 
$133,000. Castleark Management LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 18.0% in the fourth 
quarter. Castleark Management LLC now owns 2,095 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$174,000 after buying an additional 320 shares during the period. Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft FI acquired a 
new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter valued at about $212,000. Conning Inc. 
acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the first quarter valued at about $224,000. Finally, 
Huntington National Bank raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 4.3% in the first quarter. Huntington 
National Bank now owns 2,722 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $226,000 after buying an 
additional 111 shares during the period. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 42.80% of the company's 
stock. Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded down 0.185% during trading on Thursday, 
reaching $99.745. 56,869 shares of the company's stock traded hands. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of 
$66.09 and a one year high of $101.36. The stock has a market cap of $24.61 billion, a P/E ratio of 17.828 and a 
beta of 0.72. The company has a 50 day moving average price of $90.83 and a 200-day moving average price of 
$84.59.   https://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/05/18/flinton-capital-management-llc-maintains-position-in-ryanair-
holdings-plc-ryaay.html.   Several analysts recently issued reports on RYAAY shares. Zacks Investment 
Research[2] lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'sell' rating in a research report on 
Tuesday, April 11th. Deutsche Bank AG upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' 
rating in a research report on Monday, February 13th. Canaccord Genuity started coverage on shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc in a research report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. Finally, Kepler 
Capital Markets lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on 
Friday, February 10th. One research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, four have given a hold rating and 
seven have given a buy rating to the company. The company has a consensus rating of 'Buy' and an average target 
price of $99.50. About Ryanair Holdings plc Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for 
Flinton Capital Management LLC Maintains Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, 
point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair 
provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, 
including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and 
merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the 
latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair 
Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and 
analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[4]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            https://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair%20Holdings%20plc 
Load-Date: May 19, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair flight diverted to Austria, unruly passenger removed
Ryanair flight diverted to Austria, unruly passenger removed
Associated Press Financial Wire
May 17, 2017 Wednesday 4:32 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 75 words
Dateline: VIENNA 
Body
VIENNA (AP) - Budget carrier Ryanair says a regular flight from Sofia to London was diverted to the Austrian city of 
Linz and a "disruptive" passenger handed over to police before the aircraft continued on to its destination.
Company spokesman Ronan O'Keeffe said Wednesday that the incident occurred Tuesday but gave no details.
State broadcaster ORF says the man is a 46-year old Bulgarian national who became unruly after consuming too 
much alcohol.
Load-Date: May 18, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches first connecting flights through Rome Fiumicino Airport
Ryanair launches first connecting flights through Rome Fiumicino Airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
May 17, 2017 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 287 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has launched its first connecting flights through Rome Fiumicino Airport, providing Ryanair 
customers with an expanded route choice, and the opportunity to book and transfer directly onto connecting 
Ryanair flights.
Body
From today, Ryanair customers can: Browse connecting Rome Fiumicino flight options on the Ryanair.com website; 
Book connecting flights on an initial 10 routes operating to/from Rome Fiumicino (with more to follow); Connect 
to/from Alicante, Barcelona, Bari, Brussels, Catania, Comiso, Malta & Palermo via Rome; Transfer 
&#39;airside&#39; onto connecting flights without having to go &#39;landside&#39;; Have checked-in baggage 
transferred through to the next flight to their final destination; and Receive one booking reference for both flight 
bookings.This connecting flights service is the newest initiative delivered under Year 4 of Ryanair&#39;s "Always 
Getting Better" programme, with more connecting flights services to be rolled out across the entire Ryanair network 
later this year as long as the Rome Fiumicino trial proves to be a success.Ryanair&#39;s Chief Commercial Officer 
David O&#39;Brien said: "Ryanair is pleased to launch our first connecting flights service via Rome Fiumicino 
Airport, allowing customers to book connecting Ryanair flights on the lowest fares in Europe. Starting with an initial 
10 Rome routes, customers will be able to transfer onto their next flight without having to go landside, and have 
their bags checked through to their final destination. This new service under Year 4 of our "Always Getting Better" 
programme, will be rolled out across the entire Ryanair network, (with further Rome routes to be added in the 
coming weeks and months) as long as the Rome Fiumicino trial proves to be a success. 
We are also continuing our discussions with Aer Lingus and Norwegian - and other potential partners - with a view 
to launching connections with third party airlines later this year."
Load-Date: May 28, 2017
End of Document
EasyJet sends all the right signals, but investors say talk to the hand
EasyJet sends all the right signals, but investors say talk to the hand
Financial Times (London, England)
May 17, 2017 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 18
Length: 456 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
For City institutions dealing in easyJet shares, it is a shame that "open-outcry" trading ceased at the Stock 
Exchange in 1986. Because only last week, the low-cost airline suggested the ideal hand signals for traders to 
employ, in a spoof training video about cabin crew communications.
"Passenger requires chicken caesar baguette" (flap elbows in approximation of Birdy Song dance) would serve 
perfectly as a signal for the company itself. "Please put another croque-monsieur in the microwave" (snap fingers 
and thumb together like a crocodile) would work for "take profits". And "Oh no, there's another stag party on board" 
(place hands on head in shape of antlers) could be easily adapted to represent animal spirits: bullishness or 
bearishness, say.
All of these would have come in handy yesterday. News of easyJet's half-year loss had traders rushing to take 
profits, after bulls hoping for earnings upgrades were disappointed.
However, easyJet boss
Carolyn McCall could be forgiven for adopting a pose from the pre-flight safety demonstration: head in hands. She 
had just reported a record 33.8m passengers in the period - a 9 per cent increase - and a record load factor of 90.2 
per cent. She also said the airline was on track to obtain its European Air Operator Certificate by the summer, so it 
can keep flying in the EU post-Brexit. And she noted forward bookings were ahead of last year. Given signs of an 
EasyJet sends all the right signals, but investors say talk to the hand
uptick in European demand at a time when supply has been constrained by the demise of Alitalia, one analyst said 
easyJet "might have reached its nadir" - like a flight attendant reaching for a mop on getting the antlers signal.
Despite this, the shares fell 7 per cent. Traders, though they knew about sterling weakness and a later Easter, 
appeared to underestimate their respective £82m and £45m impacts, by relying on consensus estimates skewed by 
outliers. Some also seemed to react to the 9.7 per cent fall in revenue per seat - at the bottom end of guidance - 
and a slightly underwhelming "improvement" to a low single-digit decline next quarter. Although easyJet prefers to 
compare half-year RPS, another analyst predicted a worsening in the fourth quarter.
Nevertheless, Dame Carolyn is looking straight ahead and signalling the rollout of new 235-seat A321 neo aircraft - 
known as the Toyota Prius of the skies for their unit cost efficiency.
But with easyJet shares up 40 per cent on their October low, there is little reason for traders to stop giving the 
croque-monsieur signal right now. On 17.6 times 2017 earnings, easyJet is valued at a premium to rival Ryanair, 
where management has a reputation for higher earnings growth and return on capital . . . if slightly more brusque 
gesticulations.
matthew.vincent@ft.com 
Load-Date: May 16, 2017
End of Document
EXTRA: easyJet Loss Widens But Recruits Pilots Amid Strong Demand
EXTRA: easyJet Loss Widens But Recruits Pilots Amid Strong Demand
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
May 16, 2017 Tuesday 8:52 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 712 words
Body
 Low-cost airline easyJet PLC on Tuesday reported a much wider pretax loss in the first half of its financial year, but 
revenue rose as it carried more passengers and it said it will meet market expectations for the full year as consumer 
demand remains strong.
Shares in easyJet were trading down 6.4% at 1,226.60 pence on Tuesday, the worst performer in the FTSE 100.
easyJet's pretax loss in the six months ended March 31 widened to GBP236.0 million from GBP18.0 million a year 
before. This winter period is typically the weakest for airlines, with losses made up in the summer, easyJet's second 
half. 
The airline said it faced a GBP45 million hit due to the later timing of Easter this year, which fell into the second half 
of its financial year, and an GBP82 million foreign exchange hit, which was worse than its prior expectation of 
GBP75 million.
Profit was also suffered from a decline in revenue per seat of 4.9% to GBP48.80. This reflected the later timing of 
Easter, but also overall market capacity growth as airlines, such as easyJet and Ryanair Holdings PLC, drive 
demand with more flights at lower prices. 
easyJet's capacity increased by 8.4% in the first half and is expected to grow by the same amount in the second 
half.
Revenue per seat was also hit by "increased levels of disruption" resulting from strikes, severe weather and other 
airport issues leading to the cancellation or severe delay of 3,302 flights.
Total revenue, however, rose to GBP1.83 billion in the first half from GBP1.78 billion, as easyJet carried a record 
33.8 million passengers, up from 31.0 million the year before, and load factor increased to a record 90.2% from 
89.7%. Load factor bounced back in the full half-year from the first quarter when it slipped by 0.3 percentage point 
year-on-year to 90.0%.
EXTRA: easyJet Loss Widens But Recruits Pilots Amid Strong Demand
Meanwhile, cost per seat at constant currency was flat at GBP38.54, which easyJet said reflected "strong cost 
control despite high levels of disruption".
Looking forward, easyJet said forward bookings for the third quarter are ahead year-on-year, at 77%, while 
continuing to expect revenue per seat to decline by low single digits in the third quarter.
Cost per seat is expected to increase by around 1% at constant currency for the full year, which easyJet said is 
better than previously expected.
"Our bookings for the summer are ahead of last year showing that demand to fly remains strong and reflects 
growing evidence that consumers are prioritising expenditure on flights and holidays above other non-essential 
items," Chief Executive Carolyn McCall said in a statement.
"Looking ahead, we are seeing an improving revenue per seat trend as well as the continued reduction of 
competitor capacity growth. Cost performance for the full year will continue to be strong. easyJet is delivering on its 
strategy of purposeful investment in securing and building strong positions at Europe's leading airports which is 
driving competitive advantage with sustainable returns. As a result our expectations for the full year are in line with 
current consensus market expectations," she added.
The airline noted that it remains on track to secure a European Air Operator Certificate by the summer, so that it 
can secure the flying rights of its network within the European Union following Brexit.
easyJet added that it has agreed to purchase 30 A321 NEO aircraft under its existing agreement with Airbus, with 
the first arriving in summer 2018. This is a conversion of 30 existing A320 NEO orders and will be neutral to current 
fleet capital expenditure commitments, it said.
"These new aircraft will help us deliver our strategy of securing and growing our number one positions at Europe's 
leading airports, which are generally slot constrained, while reducing our cost per seat. This means we will be able 
to offer low fares to more people on Europe's most popular business and leisure routes," McCall said.
"As importantly, the A321 NEOs will also help us to mitigate our environmental impact by reducing our passengers' 
carbon footprint as well as our impact on the communities around the airports we serve," she added.
easyJet also announced a recruitment campaign under which it will recruit 450 new pilots in June. The campaign 
will be the largest recruitment drive in the airline's history.
Load-Date: May 17, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Higher as Pharma Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
European ADRs Edge Higher as Pharma Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
May 15, 2017 Monday 10:58 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 226 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.6% higher at 134.75 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Monday morning. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by voxelJet (VJET),  a German three-dimensional printer manufacturer, 
12.2% higher, followed by Trivago (TRVG), which operates an online hotel search platform, up by 9.4% and 
Cellectis (CLLS), a French genome engineering company, trading 3.2% higher. Talend (TLND),  a provider of open 
source integration solutions, was 2.9% higher. 
In the UK, Amec Foster Wheeler (AMFW), a global engineering conglomerate, was 3.7% higher, followed by 
diversified mining company BHP Billiton (BBL), Amarin (AMRN), a biopharmaceutical company, and Ryanair 
(RYAAY), a low-cost airline, all 2.3% higher. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Oasmia Pharmaceutical (OASM), a Sweden-based pharmaceutical 
company, 5.2% lower, followed by Materialise (MTLS), a Belgian provider of 3D printing software and services, 
5.0% lower and TiGenix (TIG), a Belgium-based biopharmaceutical company, down by 1.8%. 
And, in the UK, pharmaceutical companies Akari Therapeutics (AKTX), Avadel (AVDL) and GW Pharmaceuticals 
(GWPH), were down by 7.4%, 1.9% and 1.8%, respectively. Midatech Pharma (MTP), an early-stage 
biopharmaceutical company, was 1.1% lower. 
Price: 4.46, Change: +0.51, Percent Change: +12.91
Load-Date: May 16, 2017
End of Document
ANALYSIS: What is at stake for EasyJet and Ryanair from Brexit With the countdown well under way for the 
UK's departure from the EU, Europe's two biggest low-co....
ANALYSIS: What is at stake for EasyJet and Ryanair from Brexit; With the 
countdown well under way for the UK's departure from the EU, Europe's two 
biggest low-cost carriers have plenty of reasons to take a keen interest in 
the progress of negotiations.
Flight International
May 11, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 857 words
Body
With the countdown well under way for the UK's departure from the EU, Europe's two biggest low-cost carriers have 
plenty of reasons to take a keen interest in the progress of negotiations.
The various operators based in the UK or with a strong presence there have traded differing views on who would 
face the most challenges in the event of a "hard Brexit", but it is clear that, from a network perspective, the big low-
cost carriers have a number of different aspects to factor in.
Those low-cost carriers, free of the same level of national and hub obligations that network airlines face, have used 
the flexibility to operate across Europe, expanding their footprints and linking markets across the continent. The key 
concern for EasyJet and Ryanair, among a number of airlines potentially affected, is what will happen if the UK fails 
to remain part of Europe's single market in air services when Brexit negotiations conclude.
While agreement to become a member of the European Common Aviation Area would allay fears, there have been 
few signals that such an outcome is likely. A new bilateral agreement between the UK and the EU is another option, 
but that would carry challenges of its own for airlines.
Under a scenario where no agreement is forthcoming, UK-based EasyJet could lose its right to serve EU 
destinations from its home country. It could also lose the right – enshrined in the UK's EU membership and through 
the ECAA, which gives access to non-EU countries including Norway and Iceland – to fly between two non-UK 
airports in Europe.
The only exception to this would be its services involving Switzerland. EasyJet has a Swiss AOC after taking over 
TEA Basel operations in 1998. Switzerland is outside the EU but has a restricted agreement to take part in the 
wider European single aviation market.
ANALYSIS: What is at stake for EasyJet and Ryanair from Brexit With the countdown well under way for the 
UK's departure from the EU, Europe's two biggest low-co....
Meanwhile, Ireland-based Ryanair's concern is that it could lose its right to serve EU and ECAA countries from the 
UK.
"It is important air travel isn't disrupted and we don't have a period of uncertainty, or we don't have a period where 
you can't have flights between the UK and Europe," said Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair's chief marketing officer, during 
the recent Routes Europe event in Belfast.
Analysis of FlightGlobal schedules data for June 2017 shows that in terms of seats, 36% of EasyJet's services – 
excluding those to and from Switzerland – are on routes that do not touch UK airports. In the same month, 35% of 
Ryanair's seats are on routes where at least one of the airports is in the UK.
EasyJet has a number of bases in other EU and ECAA countries, but no European AOC. It is working to secure one 
so that it can still be considered an EU carrier, whatever the outcome of the UK's negotiations. Without that AOC, 
flights accounting for 36% of its seats could be under threat even if the UK managed to negotiate a new bilateral 
agreement with the EU.
"We are making good progress and are on track to meet the timetable previously announced of having the AOC 
awarded during summer 2017," EasyJet told FlightGlobal on 4 May.
Another complicating factor for EasyJet, increasing the importance of its establishment of an EU AOC, was 
highlighted in a UK House of Lords select committee report published earlier this year. It concluded: "We note that 
there is no precedent for the inclusion of the right to fly domestically within an EU member state in a comprehensive 
bilateral air services agreement." This suggests that EasyJet's domestic French services, for example, could be 
under threat in a scenario where the UK secures a bilateral EU agreement but the airline has no EU AOC in place.
Two French domestic routes – Nice-Paris and Paris-Toulouse – are EasyJet's busiest in terms of seats in its non-
UK network in June, FlightGlobal schedules data shows. Excluding flights covered by its Swiss AOC, 2.4 million, or 
36%, of EasyJet's 6.8 million seats in June are on routes that do not touch UK airports. Including those Swiss 
routes, 3.5 million, or 43%, of its 8.2 million seats in June are on non-UK routes.
A challenge for Ryanair is that its biggest base is in the UK, at London Stansted. Its two busiest UK routes in June 
this year are Dublin-Stansted and Dublin-London Gatwick. In total, 4.4 million of its 12.3 million seats in June are on 
services that touch at least one UK airport, FlightGlobal schedules data shows.
If UK operations no longer fall under the EU single market or ECAA and there is no replacement agreement, those 
Ryanair services would theoretically have to stop. Moreover, to avoid a situation where Ryanair loses the right to fly 
service originating in the UK, the country would need an air services agreement – joining the ECAA or otherwise – 
that allows EU carriers to base aircraft in the country and fly seventh-freedom services from it.
While the Brexit impact is by no means limited to these two low-cost carriers, the pan-European development of 
their networks means they have plenty at stake. In a scenario where the UK drops out of the European single 
aviation market with no replacement agreement, they could become victims of the success they have enjoyed 
through embracing the freedoms it confers.
Load-Date: May 17, 2017
End of Document
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has $21,010,000 Position in Ryanair 
Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has 
$21,010,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
May 10, 2017 Wednesday 4:26 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 839 words
Byline: Mark Dietrich
Body
May 10, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS maintained its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
during the first quarter, Holdings Channel[1] reports. The institutional investor owned 253,191 shares of the 
transportation company's stock at the end of the first quarter. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls 
Retrmt SYS owned 0.10% of Ryanair Holdings plc worth $21,010,000 at the end of the most recent reporting 
period. 
 A number of other large investors have also recently bought and sold shares of the stock. State Street Corp raised 
its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 35.0% in the fourth quarter. State Street Corp now owns 324,522 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $27,016,000 after buying an additional 84,140 shares during 
the period. Todd Asset Management LLC raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 12.7% in the third 
quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now owns 331,598 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$24,880,000 after buying an additional 37,461 shares during the period. Manning ...pier Advisors LLC raised its 
position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 2.8% in the third quarter. Manning ...pier Advisors LLC now owns 
1,938,000 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $145,406,000 after buying an additional 52,262 
shares during the period. Reliance Trust Co. of Delaware raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 
22.5% in the first quarter. Reliance Trust Co. of Delaware now owns 9,615 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $798,000 after buying an additional 1,764 shares during the period. Finally, Lazard Asset 
Management LLC raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 33.7% in the third quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 3,330,852 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $249,913,000 after 
buying an additional 838,744 shares during the period. Institutional investors own 42.80% of the company's stock. 
Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded up 0.01% on Tuesday, reaching $97.96. 186,901 
shares of the company's stock traded hands. The firm has a market cap of $24.17 billion, a P/E ratio of 17.51 and a 
beta of 0.72. The stock has a 50-day moving average of $87.40 and a 200 day moving average of $83.06. Ryanair 
Holdings 
plc 
has 
a 
12-month 
low 
of 
$66.09 
and 
a 
12-month 
high 
of 
$99.13.  
http://www.watchlistnews.com/commonwealth-of-pennsylvania-public-school-empls-retrmt-sys-has-21010000-
position-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay/1259854.html.   Several brokerages have commented on RYAAY. Zacks 
Investment Research[3] upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on 
Friday, February 10th. Deutsche Bank AG upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has $21,010,000 Position in Ryanair 
Holdings plc (RYAAY)
rating in a report on Monday, February 13th. Canaccord Genuity began coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
in a report on Thursday, January 26th. They issued a 'buy' rating for the company. Barclays PLC restated a 'buy' 
rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on Tuesday, January 10th. Finally, Kepler Capital Markets 
lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Friday, February 10th. 
One research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, four have issued a hold rating and seven have assigned 
a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings plc has a consensus rating of 'Buy' and an average price 
target of $99.50. Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding 
company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving 
short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. 
Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger 
service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food 
and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get 
the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for 
Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news 
and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily 
email 
newsletter[5]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 5]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair+Holdings+plc 
Load-Date: May 10, 2017
End of Document
IoT collaboration opportunities at Irish event
IoT collaboration opportunities at Irish event
Business World (Digest)
May 10, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 359 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ireland’s only conference to promote collaboration between entrepreneurs and multinationals is taking place at the 
Dublin Convention Centre today. 
FutureScope will allow AT&T to meet with some of Ireland’s most promising IoT companies and strike up 
conversations with them.   FutureScope expects to attract 1,200 attendees today, 300 of whom will be 
entrepreneurs looking to strike up partnerships with multinationals and investors. Attendees will have the 
opportunity to listen to talks, panel discussions and advice on the latest trends and issues affecting entrepreneurs 
and the start-up community. 
  This morning, Chris Penrose, President of AT&T’s Internet of Things organisation, gave a keynote speech on the 
mainstage of FutureScope. He discussed what is required to build a smarter city, the role of public-private 
partnerships and the need for collaboration across the entire smart cities ecosystem.   AT&T will also participate in 
FutureScope’s dedicated Collaboration Stage, which will showcase some of the best collaborations in Ireland and 
how they work. Those taking part will also include Dublin City Council, Science Foundation Ireland, Google, 
Ryanair, The CONNECT Centre, Enterprise Ireland and Vodafone.   On the mainstage, Manuel Heckmann from 
Siemens’ next47 unit will discuss the €1 billion fund for scale-ups and the adoption of disruptive ideas. Small 
Business Innovation Research (SBIR), meanwhile, will give details of its new €600,000 fund and discuss how 
Dublin is tapping into the innovation of SMEs to create a Smart Dublin.   Elsewhere, a Brexit panel will discuss what 
Britain’s divorce from the EU means for Irish tech, while another panel will discuss why scaling up could be better 
for you and your business than exiting.   Speaking ahead of the event, CEO of Dublin BIC, Michael Culligan said, 
"The idea behind FutureScope is to get scale-ups, multinationals and investors into the same room and encourage 
them to strike up business relationships. Today’s agenda is packed full of opportunities for Ireland’s start-ups and 
entrepreneurs and AT&T’s presence will make today very exciting indeed."
IoT collaboration opportunities at Irish event
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: May 22, 2017
End of Document
Teachers Advisors LLC Has $4.599 Million Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Teachers Advisors LLC Has $4.599 Million Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
May 10, 2017 Wednesday 11:20 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 799 words
Byline: Stacy Sanders
Body
May 10, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Teachers Advisors LLC lowered 
its position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 7.2% during the fourth quarter, according to its most 
recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The institutional investor owned 55,232 
shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 4,300 shares during the period. Teachers Advisors LLC's 
holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc were worth $4,599,000 at the end of the most recent reporting period.  A number 
of other hedge funds have also modified their holdings of the company. 
Cavalier Investments LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.2% in the fourth quarter. Cavalier 
Investments LLC now owns 3,867 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $322,000 after buying an 
additional 44 shares during the period. Freestone Capital Holdings LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc by 1.1% in the fourth quarter. Freestone Capital Holdings LLC now owns 4,982 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $415,000 after buying an additional 53 shares during the period. Timber Hill 
LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.7% in the third quarter. Timber Hill LLC now owns 6,048 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $454,000 after buying an additional 100 shares during the 
period. Castleark Management LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 18.0% in the fourth 
quarter. Castleark Management LLC now owns 2,095 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $174,000 
after buying an additional 320 shares during the period. Finally, Brinker Capital Inc. raised its stake in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc by 25.6% in the third quarter. Brinker Capital Inc. now owns 3,626 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $272,000 after buying an additional 739 shares during the period. Institutional investors and 
hedge funds own 42.80% of the company's stock. Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) opened at 
97.96 on Wednesday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $66.09 and a 52 week high of $99.13. The 
company has a market capitalization of $24.17 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 17.51 and a beta of 0.72. The firm 
has a 50 day moving average price of $87.40 and a 200 day moving average price of $83.06.   
http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/05/10/teachers-advisors-llc-has-4-599-million-stake-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-
ryaay.html.  A number of brokerages recently commented on RYAAY. Zacks Investment Research[2] upgraded 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $109.00 price target on the stock in a report on 
Saturday. Kepler Capital Markets lowered Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on 
Friday, February 10th. Barclays PLC reiterated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on 
Tuesday, January 10th. Deutsche Bank AG upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a 
report on Monday, February 13th. Finally, Canaccord Genuity began coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a report 
Teachers Advisors LLC Has $4.599 Million Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
on Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating on the stock. One analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, 
four have issued a hold rating and seven have given a buy rating to the company. The company has a consensus 
rating of 'Buy' and a consensus target price of $99.50. Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc 
(Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, 
scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities 
connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and 
the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? 
Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to 
receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related 
companies 
with 
MarketBeat.com's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.americanconsumernews.net/scripts/click.aspx?Zacks=1 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair%20Holdings%20plc 
Load-Date: May 10, 2017
End of Document
Alitalia : Italy 's political football kicked down the road again
Alitalia: Italy's political football kicked down the road again
City A.M.
May 9, 2017 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 19
Length: 626 words
Byline: Willem Marx
Body
ITALY'S flagship airline has reentered administration for the second time in a decade, with liabilities three times 
greater than its assets at the latest reckoning. But few observers of either Italy's political sphere or Europe's aviation 
sector will be expressing much surprise.
That's because one of the company's few consistent achievements in recent years has been its ability to lose vast 
amounts of money. The airline has reportedly been burning cash at a rate of roughly (EURO)1m a day, and were it 
not for the latest government intervention its remaining cash reserves would have run out by the middle of this 
month.
That intervention consisted of a (EURO)600m bridge loan from the Italian state, designed to give the airline's 
recently appointed administrators some breathing space as they seek a long-term solution to the airline's 
welldocumented ills.
Alitalia has struggled to modernise in recent years, and while the chickens born of some poor past decisions came 
home to roost quite some time ago, their squawks have now grown so loud at the company's headquarters inside 
Rome's Fiumicino airport that they threaten to drown out the roar of jet engines.
While rival legacy airlines long ago began slashing their cost bases and modernising their fleets, Alitalia failed to 
invest strategically in its route network and its offering, and thus lost ground in the high-margin long-haul and 
business markets.
Meanwhile low-cost operators swarmed across Europe, undercutting Alitalia on continental routes and - even more 
shockingly - on its old bread and butter domestic travel. For the first time last summer, Ryanair surpassed Alitalia's 
seat capacity out of Italian airports, carrying 15.39m passengers to Alitalia's 14.27m. The Irish carrier now flies out 
Alitalia : Italy 's political football kicked down the road again
of more Italian airports too: 27 to Alitalia's 26, with Easyjet not far behind at 6.8m passengers flying from 17 Italian 
destinations.
A major obstacle to financial health has of course been the firm's sclerotic and antiquated management system, 
which requires Alitalia's 12,500 employees to approve any major changes to the company's structure in a vote.
The most recently proposed (EURO)2bn restructuring would have required pay cuts and job losses; and even 
though the relevant unions agreed with the measures, the overall workforce rejected them. That vote was "cutting 
off their nose to spite their face", as a Rome-based fund manager put it to me recently, given that it ultimately tipped 
the company into administration.
The options facing the three administrators over the next six months should be relatively simple: substantially 
restructure the firm, liquidate the remaining assets, or sell, in whole or in part. Etihad currently holds a 49 per cent 
share in the company, but major European rivals seem unlikely to invest in this mess, and creditors remain unwilling 
to lend Alitalia a single euro more.
The administrators are ultimately dealing with a symbol of Italy's national identity, which time and again has been 
bailed out by the country's political class, using ever more arcane arguments and solutions to save what is to all 
intents and purposes a failed airline.
Even though authorities currently insist they will never renationalise the company, those workers who shot down the 
recent restructuring proposal clearly felt they could rely on the historically benevolent Italian state.
Former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi's failed constitutional reforms in last year's referendum were ostensibly about 
modernising Italy.
And as he renews his push for national office in upcoming elections, he may well find Alitalia continues to haunt the 
country's corridors of power - an unwelcome political football that has been repeatedly kicked down the road.
£ Willem Marx is a reporter at CNBC.
Load-Date: May 9, 2017
End of Document
Seven European pension schemes ditch Ryanair stock; Investment strategy
Seven European pension schemes ditch Ryanair stock; Investment strategy
Financial Times (London, England)
May 8, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT REPORT - FUND MANAGEMENT; Pg. 1
Length: 872 words
Byline: Madison Marriage
Highlight: Concerns over high-profile labour disputes involving the budget airline
Body
Seven European pension schemes overseeing nearly EUR300bn of assets have pulled their investments in Ryanair 
due to concerns about high-profile labour disputes involving the budget airline.
Denmark's largest pension fund, ATP, and Folksam, the Swedish retirement scheme, are among the large investors 
that have sold their holdings in Ryanair at a time of growing concern about how the airline pays its staff and 
interacts with unions.
Baillie Gifford, one of the UK's largest asset managers, and Hermes EOS, the influential adviser to institutional 
investors, have also raised concerns about labour issues with Ryanair in recent months.
Michael O'Leary, the outspoken chief executive of Ryanair, described the pension funds that have sold their 
holdings as "idiots", adding: "We don't pay too much attention to pension funds who have excluded us over labour 
concerns. They are misinformed. We don't have any labour issues.
"We have excellent relations [with staff], no strikes, and no threat of a strike. Our shares are up 10 per cent year to 
date. If some idiot proxy [adviser to large investors] says don't invest in Ryanair, frankly we couldn't care less. We 
are not a sensitive organisation. This is their loss, not ours."
Danish pension schemes PKA, Sam, Industriens Pension, PFA and Pension Danmark have also added Ryanair to 
the exclusion lists of companies they will not invest in on ethical grounds.
Seven European pension schemes ditch Ryanair stock; Investment strategy
PKA, Denmark's fourth-largest pension scheme, which oversees EUR32bn of assets, said: "We expect all 
companies that PKA invests in to comply with our guidelines for responsible investments, including labour rights.
"Ryanair has, over the years, had many controversies related to labour rights, recently in Denmark but also in 
France.
"In combination with issues surrounding freedom of association and collective bargaining, PKA decided to exclude 
Ryanair."
Europe's biggest airline by passenger numbers came under heavy pressure over labour issues in 2015 when a 
Danish court ruled the company needed to sign a collective agreement with local staff over pay or face a blockade 
from trade unionists.
Ryanair had argued its Copenhagen-based staff should be subject to Irish law. Danish unions claimed this allowed 
the airline to pay its cabin crew half of what staff in Cimber, a local low-cost rival, earned.
French authorities also fined the airline EUR9m in 2013 for breaking local labour laws by employing staff on Irish 
contracts at a now-closed base in the south of France. Ryanair said last week it would seek a refund of EUR15m in 
taxes and fines from French authorities after the European Court of Justice ruled in favour of A-Rosa, a German 
cruise company, in a similar case.
A large Ryanair shareholder, speaking on condition of anonymity, said his organisation was "monitoring" its 
holdings in the airline due to concerns about labour practices.
"They clearly take a different stance from their peers in the airline industry. They are less willing to work through 
unions and with unions. It is increasingly common for staff not to have permanent contracts, and that is one of the 
gripes against Ryanair."
But he added that he was encouraged by Ryanair's improvements in customer service. "We would like to see them 
extend that approach to other stakeholders and show they are looking after their employees. We do believe that 
mishandled ethical issues turn into economic issues," he said.
Ryanair continues to fly to Copenhagen, although the company shifted its Copenhagen-based aircraft to Kaunas in 
Lithuania in order to avoid trade union blockades in Denmark. The airline is contesting the Danish ruling at a 
European level.
Mr O'Leary added: "We have not had a strike in 31 years. We are probably the only airline in Europe that has labour 
policies that are perfectly in line with investor expectations. I couldn't care less [about the divestments]. We have a 
very supportive shareholder base."
Tom Powdrill, responsible investment co-ordinator at the International Transport Workers' Federation, an 
international organisation that works with 700 transport unions, said the divestments demonstrated investors 
increasingly viewed "employment relations as a source of risk".
"Unless Ryanair changes its approach to labour issues, it seems unlikely most funds would reinvest. That would 
require a transformation of how the company thinks and operates," he said.
Denmark's Sam, which oversees EUR39bn of assets, said it put Ryanair on its exclusion list due to the company's 
"reluctance to engage in formal wage negotiations and follow local collective bargaining agreements. When they 
change their attitude and actions in this respect, they could be included again."
Folksam, a Swedish scheme that oversees EUR41bn of assets, added: "For the company to be re-included [in our 
portfolios] it would have to show that it is not against labour rights or union rights."
PFA, one of Denmark's largest pension providers, with EUR60bn of assets under management, said: "PFA has 
followed Ryanair's business practices with worry, including the working conditions of its employees and, most 
Seven European pension schemes ditch Ryanair stock; Investment strategy
recently, the case at the Danish Labour Court. The case illustrates the company's lack of interest in adapting to 
local conditions and the related risk."
Load-Date: May 7, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Upgraded by Zacks Investment Research to 'Buy'
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Upgraded by Zacks Investment Research to 
'Buy'
Watchlist News
May 6, 2017 Saturday 10:01 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 857 words
Byline: Micah Haroldson
Body
May 06, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) was upgraded by Zacks Investment Research from a 'sell' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research 
report issued to clients and investors on Saturday. The firm currently has a $109.00 price target on the 
transportation company's stock. Zacks Investment Research's price target would suggest a potential upside of 
11.57% from the stock's current price. 
 According to Zacks, 'Ryanair operates an ultra-low cost, scheduled airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes 
largely in Europe from its bases in airports across Europe. The company offers over 1,600 scheduled short-haul 
flights per day serving airports largely throughout Europe, with a principal fleet of Boeing 737-800 aircraft. ' RYAAY 
has been the subject of a number of other reports. Canaccord Genuity started coverage on shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc in a research report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. Deutsche 
Bank AG raised shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research report on Monday, 
February 13th. Barclays PLC reissued a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on 
Tuesday, January 10th. Finally, Kepler Capital Markets cut shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 
'hold' rating in a research report on Friday, February 10th. One analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, four 
have given a hold rating and seven have assigned a buy rating to the company. The stock currently has a 
consensus rating of 'Buy' and an average price target of $99.50.  Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) opened at 97.70 on Friday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $66.09 and a 12-
month high of $99.13. The company has a 50 day moving average of $87.40 and a 200-day moving average of 
$83.06. The firm has a market cap of $24.11 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 17.78 and a beta of 0.72.  
http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-upgraded-by-zacks-investment-research-to-
buy/1249405.html.  Hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently modified their holdings of the 
company. Capital Research Global Investors boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 17.2% in the 
third quarter. Capital Research Global Investors now owns 8,373,690 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $628,278,000 after buying an additional 1,230,762 shares during the period. Capital International 
Investors boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.6% in the third quarter. Capital International 
Investors now owns 4,380,192 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $328,646,000 after buying 
an additional 70,214 shares during the period. Lazard Asset Management LLC boosted its position in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc by 33.7% in the third quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 3,330,852 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $249,913,000 after buying an additional 838,744 shares during the 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Upgraded by Zacks Investment Research to 'Buy'
period. Janus Capital Management LLC boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 126.4% in the 
fourth quarter. Janus Capital Management LLC now owns 3,101,381 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $258,254,000 after buying an additional 1,731,481 shares during the period. Finally, Renaissance 
Technologies LLC boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 2.0% in the fourth quarter. Renaissance 
Technologies LLC now owns 2,329,108 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $193,922,000 after 
buying an additional 45,000 shares during the period. 42.80% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and 
hedge funds.  About Ryanair Holdings plc Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for 
Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, 
point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair 
provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, 
including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and 
merchandise.Get a free copy of the Zacks research report on Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)[2] For more 
information about research offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com[3] Receive News ...tings for 
Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news 
and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily 
email newsletter[4]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=zrmodule...D=AMERBMN_CONTENT_ZER...p_rpt_name_check=s
kip_rpt_name_check...YAAY [ 3]:            http://www.zacks.com/ [ 4]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-
email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY...yanair+Holdings+plc 
Load-Date: May 6, 2017
End of Document
ANALYSIS: Alitalia 's woes a potential ABS downside? Turmoil at Italian flag carrier Alitalia is not a headache 
confined to its shareholders. A number of lessor....
ANALYSIS: Alitalia's woes a potential ABS downside?; Turmoil at Italian flag 
carrier Alitalia is not a headache confined to its shareholders. A number of 
lessors and capital-markets investors also find themselves exposed to the 
airline's uncertain future.
Flight International
May 4, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 625 words
Body
Turmoil at Italian flag carrier Alitalia is not a headache confined to its shareholders. A number of lessors and capital-
markets investors also find themselves exposed to the airline's uncertain future.
The beleaguered SkyTeam carrier has more than half of its fleet on lease. Lessors will be anxious to find out if their 
Alitalia-exposed assets have to be remarketed.
However, asset-backed securitisation (ABS) investors and issuers will also be watching Alitalia's situation closely.
Currently, of the over 60 aircraft on lease, 22 Alitalia aircraft are funded by asset-backed securities, Flight Fleets 
Analyzer indicates.
The collateral types and vintages vary within each deal.
Castlelake has the most exposure to the airline, with 14 narrowbodies and one widebody on lease to the troubled 
airline via two live ABS deals – the $713 million CLAST 2015-1 and the $916 million CLAST 2016-1.
In comparison, DVB Bank has limited exposure to the airline, via two 2012-vintage A330s in its DCAL 2015-1 ABS.
Apollo Aviation has one 1999-vintage A330 via AASET 2016-2, while Air Lease has an Embraer 175 via BBIRD 
2016-1.
Jetscape has three 2012-built Embraer 175s via EAGLE 2014-1.
The natural question to ask is what happens to those deals if Alitalia has a rough bankruptcy, and what aftershocks 
that could have on the wider ABS market, which has lately attracted a wide range of issuers and investors.
ANALYSIS: Alitalia 's woes a potential ABS downside? Turmoil at Italian flag carrier Alitalia is not a headache 
confined to its shareholders. A number of lessor....
WORST CASE BEST CASE?
Given a worst-case scenario of Alitalia completely restructuring and returning a swathe of aircraft, what 
repercussions would these ABS deals face?
One finance source thinks any returns may actually be a boon for the ABS market.
"If I had to bet, it will be a net positive: if any of the aircraft are returned, the overall market will probably be able to 
absorb them relatively quickly.
"This will be a test of the structures in an environment where there is not too much stress – yet. It may be a bit more 
stressful if the aircraft returned are widebodies," the source adds.
Concerns over widebody values are shared by JP Morgan.
"With a total of 25 widebodies currently under lease, renegotiation/rejection risk has risen... and may exert further 
downward pressure on 777-200ER and A330-200 values," says JP Morgan in market note published on 3 May.
However, a leasing source sees the narrowbody fleet as the most likely to be returned by any administrator. This is 
because Alitalia is being beaten in this market by the likes of Ryanair and EasyJet, the source argues.
"The ABS and leasing guys must be worried," he adds.
However, the Alitalia situation's full impact on ABS deals will be hard to gauge any time soon.
So far, effects are limited. Despite having the largest exposure of any ABS deal, Castlelake's CLAST 2015-1 is 
trading above par today, Bloomberg data indicates.
Fundamentally, ABS deals have credit and asset diversity in order to avoid serious disruption with a single credit.
For example, while CLAST 2016-1 has eight aircraft with Alitalia, only one asset in that pool poses remarketing risk: 
a 17-year-old A330, which in all likelihood wouldn't have been due to be leased again after the conclusion of its 
term with Alitalia. The remaining seven Airbus A320-family narrowbodies, between four and seven years old, are all 
viable secondary-market aircraft.
However, finance sources agree it will test the market.
"I think it will be interesting to see how it all plays out. Presumably the phoenix that will undoubtedly rise from the 
ashes will want to keep the newer kit, keep a good chunk of the mid-life kit – but at cheaper rents – and return the 
old rubbish. The test will be what rates get squeezed down to and, if kit gets returned, then what will happen to it," 
says another banking source.
Additional reporting by Sophie Segal
Load-Date: May 9, 2017
End of Document
IWANTTHAT From funky luggage to pro cameras, here's
IWANTTHAT; From funky luggage to pro cameras, here's
City A.M.
May 4, 2017 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: TRAVEL;FEATURES; Pg. 10,12
Length: 282 words
Body
£1,150 FOR 20" CASE, www.GLOBE-TROTTER.COM These irresistibly retro trunks will make you the coolest guy 
at the baggage carousel. Available in a wide range of colours, the 2017 collection comes with a lining inspired by a 
piece from the Globe Trotter archive, these right and they will last you a lifetime, and their leather corner-protectors 
and straps will only improve with age. If you think travelling light is for losers, this is the case for you. Maybe don't 
risk checking it into a Ryanair flight, though.
MEISTERSTÜCK SMALL DUFFLE £895, www.MONTBLANC.COM This soft grain leather travel bag is 
exceptionally well made from the finest Italian cowhide. The front is emblazoned with a subtle Mont Blanc "peak" 
symbol and the inside is lined in soft brown cotton. BURBERRY DK88 DOCTOR'S BAG £2,995,            
www.UK.BURBERRY.COM This stunning leather bag with oversized lock is part of Burberry's new DK88 collection, 
named after the house code for the brand's signature honey-coloured gabardine fabric. It features an alligator 
handle.
TUMI X ORLEBAR BROWN TOTE FROM £295, www.UK.TUMI.COM Luxury luggage and accessory designer 
Tumi has teamed up with swimwear specialist Orlebar Brown to create a fantastic new range of playful weekend 
tote bags. The bag features a detailed photographic print - a classic Orlebar Brown touch - that draws inspiration 
from Slim Aarons' iconic pictures of Riviera and Palm Beach. The four-piece collection includes two small and two 
medium totes, with plain navy and khaki versions also available. Each tote has a waterproof rubber base, leather 
carry handles, a strap tuck lock closure and a hanging luggage tag that can be monogrammed. Perfect for your 
summer vacation.
Load-Date: May 4, 2017
IWANTTHAT From funky luggage to pro cameras, here's
End of Document
Alitalia begins quest for a buyer to stave off threat of liquidation; Airlines
Alitalia begins quest for a buyer to stave off threat of liquidation; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
May 4, 2017 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 14
Length: 509 words
Byline: James Politi in Rome
Body
Alitalia will be put up for sale starting in two weeks with the aim of finding a buyer for the entire airline to stave off 
liquidation, a senior Italian official said.
A day after Alitalia collapsed into administration , Carlo Calenda, the economic development minister, set some 
goals for talks around the airline's future.
"Within 15 days the commissioners will be open to expressions of interest," Mr Calenda said in a radio interview on 
Tuesday. "For us the priority is the sale of the whole company."
This week, the centre-left government of Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni extended a bridge loan of EUR600m to 
keep Alitalia afloat for the next six months, but ruled out nationalisation.
This will give Luigi Gubitosi, Enrico Laghi and Stefano Paleari, the commissioners appointed by the government, 
breathing space to craft a strategy to minimise losses to prevent a grounding of its fleet and to manage the sale.
There is a deadline on the horizon: Mr Calenda has said the EUR600m loan would be the "maximum" of state aid 
on offer, which should last for about six months.
Alitalia begins quest for a buyer to stave off threat of liquidation; Airlines
In recent days, there has been growing media speculation about potential buyers, among them Lufthansa, the 
German flag carrier, Ferrovie dello Stato, Italy's state-owned railway, and Qatar Airways, which has invested in 
Meridiana, another Italian airline.
"Any idea is welcome, but the important thing to keep in mind is that Alitalia needs an alliance with a big European 
group," said Mr Calenda. "The problem is that its scale is too small."
Finding a buyer will be a challenge, and acquirers might be scared off by events of recent months. Alitalia was 
forced into administration after employees rejected a deal struck between the unions and management to cut 
salaries, personnel and other costs.
Big investors, including Etihad of the UAE and UniCredit and Intesa, the Italian banks, then withdrew their support 
for a EUR2bn financing package they had put on the table.
Without any assurances on Alitalia's commitment to cost cuts and a path to a profitable business model, it might be 
hard for any buyer to put money in.
Concerns for a deterioration in the company's health could continue, particularly if there is a drop-off of bookings 
from would-be passengers worried that they may be unable to fly.
In an effort to reassure customers, Alitalia has repeatedly stated that its flight schedule would remain unchanged.
In the medium term, some analysts say low-cost carriers such as Ryanair, easyJet, and Vueling in Spain - which 
were among the causes of Alitalia's troubles - stand to benefit.
"A liquidation of Alitalia is now the most realistic scenario, assuming that a search for a buyer is not successful," 
wrote Sven Reinke, a senior vice-president and airlines analyst at Moody's, in a note last week.
"European low-cost carriers . . . have captured substantial market share in Italy in recent years and have developed 
strong networks that connect Italian airports with many European destinations. These airlines will profit from 
Alitalia's liquidation or further retreat," he added.
Load-Date: May 3, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Lower as Mining Stocks Contract
European ADRs Edge Lower as Mining Stocks Contract
MT Newswires Live Briefs
May 3, 2017 Wednesday 10:44 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 244 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.2% lower at 130.63 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Wednesday morning.
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Forward Pharma (FWP), a Danish biopharmaceutical company, 2.6% 
lower, followed by steel manufacturer ArcelorMittal (MT), down by 2.4% and Criteo (CRTO), a French technology 
company, also 2.4% lower. STMicroelectronics - New York Shares (STM), an Italian semiconductor company, was 
1.8% lower. 
In the UK, Motif Bio Plc - Warrant (MTFBW), a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, was 7.9% lower, followed 
by diversified mining company BHP Billiton (BBL), down by 2.5% and Rio Tinto (RIO), also a miner, 2.4% lower. 
Avadel (AVDL), a specialty pharmaceutical company, was down by 1.4%. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Novo Nordisk (NVO), a Danish healthcare company, 5.9% higher, 
followed by voxelJet (VJET), a German three-dimensional printer manufacturer, up by 4.1% and Trivago (TRVG), 
an online hotel search platform operator, 1.6% higher. AB InBev (BUD), a Belgium-based company engaged in the 
brewers industry, was up by 1.5%. 
And, in the UK, Pearson (PSO), an education company, was 2.1% higher, followed by low-cost airline Ryanair 
(RYAAY), up by 1.3% and Akari Therapeutics (AKTX), a development-stage biopharmaceutical company, 0.8% 
higher. Vodafone (VOD), a mobile communications company, was 0.7% higher. 
Price: 41.51, Change: +2.58, Percent Change: +6.63
Load-Date: May 4, 2017
European ADRs Edge Lower as Mining Stocks Contract
End of Document
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 03.05.2017 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 03.05.2017 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
May 3, 2017 Wednesday 8:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 382 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - The following investment banks issued recommendations this morning as follows:  
Analyst recommendations in the dpa-AFX International ProFeed on 03.05.2017 - 08.50 am  - CITIGROUP STARTS 
AUMANN WITH 'NEUTRAL' - EQUINET CUTS PFEIFFER VACUUM TO 'ACCUMULATE' (BUY) - GOLDMAN 
CUTS FMC PRICE TARGET TO 100 (103) EUR - 'CONVICTION BUY LIST' - GOLDMAN REINITIATES 
FRESENIUS SE WITH 'NEUTRAL' - PRICE TARGET 75 EUR - HSBC RAISES FIELMANN PRICE TARGET TO 
65 (59) EUR - 'HOLD' - LAMPE RAISES BAUER TO 'ALPHA LIST' - LAMPE RAISES KWS SAAT AG TO 'BUY' 
(HOLD) - RBC CAPITAL CUTS ZALANDO TO 'SECTOR PERFORM' (OUTPERFORM) - PRICE TARGET 42 EUR 
- RPT/BAADER BANK CUTS NEMETSCHEK TO 'HOLD' (BUY) - RPT/JPMORGAN CUTS MTU AERO ENGINES 
TO 'NEUTRAL' (OVERWEIGHT) - PRICE TARGET 140 EUR - S&P GLOBAL RAISES QIAGEN PRICE TARGET 
TO 30 (28) EUR - 'HOLD'  - BERNSTEIN RAISES PFIZER PRICE TARGET TO 37 (35) USD - 'OUTPERFORM'  - 
BARCLAYS RAISES DERWENT LONDON PRICE TARGET TO 3600 (3500) PENCE - 'OVERWEIGHT' - 
BERENBERG RAISES LVMH PRICE TARGET TO 245 (230) EUR - 'BUY' - CREDIT SUISSE RAISES RBS PRICE 
TARGET TO 255 (235) PENCE - 'UNDERPERFORM' - CREDIT SUISSE RAISES RYANAIR PRICE TARGET TO 
19.25 (18.78) EUR - 'OUTPERFORM' - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES WHITBREAD PRICE TARGET TO 4400 
(4100) PENCE - 'BUY' - GOLDMAN CUTS JUST EAT PRICE TARGET TO 900 (920) PENCE - 'CONVICTION BUY 
LIST' - GOLDMAN CUTS LONMIN PRICE TARGET TO 77 (80) PENCE - 'SELL' - GOLDMAN CUTS SSE PRICE 
TARGET TO 1528 (1575) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - JPMORGAN CUTS POLYMETAL PRICE TARGET TO 956 (980) 
PENCE - 'UNDERWEIGHT' - JPMORGAN RAISES ROCHE PRICE TARGET TO 290 (265) SFR - 'OVERWEIGHT' 
- MORGAN STANLEY CUTS AGGREKO TO 'UNDERWEIGHT' ('EQUAL-WEIGHT') - TARGET 730 P. - RBC 
CAPITAL RAISES KERING PRICE TARGET TO 290 (245) EUR - 'SECTOR PERFORM' - RBC CAPITAL RAISES 
LVMH PRICE TARGET TO 245 (220) EUR - 'OUTPERFORM' - RBC CUTS BURBERRY TO UNDERPERFORM 
(SECTOR PERFORM) - TARGET 1530 (1620) PENCE  - TRADERS: KEPLER CHEUVREUX RAISES PRICE 
TARGET SILTRONIC TO 84 (70) EUR - 'BUY' - TRADERS: STIFEL RAISES PRICE TARGET INFINEON TO 21 
(19) EUR - 'BUY' - TRADERS: CITIGROUP CUTS PRICE TARGET MOSAIC TO 27 (31) USD - 'NEUTRAL'  dpa-
AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH assumes no liability for the  correctness of this information./rob    
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 03.05.2017 - 08.50 am
Load-Date: May 3, 2017
End of Document
Tail end of Alitalia 's 'journey to excellence' Airlines: Legacy carriers
Tail end of Alitalia's 'journey to excellence'; Airlines: Legacy carriers
Financial Times (London, England)
May 3, 2017 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 15
Length: 801 words
Byline: James Politi in Rome
Highlight: Administrators await after painful descent as woes prove too much for UAE investor
Body
At a presentation in Rome in May 2016 called a "journey to excellence", James Hogan, the chief executive of 
Etihad, the UAE-based carrier and top shareholder in Alitalia, betrayed no signs of the struggles ahead for the 
Italian airline.
"After some difficult and challenging years, Alitalia has a great story to tell," Mr Hogan said, praising the Italian flag 
carrier's apparent recovery and vowing that it would be profitable by 2017.
A year later, not only has Alitalia failed to start making any money, but yesterday its board requested the start of 
administration proceedings, with the backing of Etihad.
The collapse of Alitalia marks a big setback for the UAE-carrier that anchored a EUR1.7bn investment in the airline 
in 2014, as part of a broader strategy of global expansion based on buying minority stakes in often struggling 
airlines to drive traffic to Etihad's Abu Dhabi hub.
John Strickland, aviation consultant said the timing of Alitalia's collapse is especially bad. Gulf airlines are seeing a 
drop in passenger traffic due to the low oil price, concerns over terrorist attacks in Europe, and the recent imposition 
of visa constraints and laptop bans in the US, he said.
"They are not likely to get much back, if anything" from the Alitalia investment, he added.
Tail end of Alitalia 's 'journey to excellence' Airlines: Legacy carriers
Etihad's explanation for what went wrong at Alitalia mirror the Italian airline's: the turnround was proceeding well 
until a string of terrorist attacks dented appetite for air travel last year.
Meanwhile, Alitalia's high cost base simply could not compete with the growing penetration of low-cost carriers in 
the short and medium haul European market.
But if Etihad can blame some factors beyond its control for the flop at Alitalia, it might be hard for it to escape its 
role in overseeing the airline's management, particularly Cramer Ball, the Australian chief executive close to Mr 
Hogan, who is being criticised for the failure.
"This management not only made mistakes with the company's business model, but also had an approach that was 
arrogant at times," Carlo Calenda, Italy's economic development minister, said at the weekend.
One person close to Alitalia, who declined to be named, regretted that "managers from outside" had been brought 
into the company, saying they failed to understand the complexities of doing business in Italy.
But others said that the situation was not so "black and white" - and that Mr Ball had little chance of succeeding 
given the rapidly deteriorating finances once he had arrived. Its defenders add that Etihad did help jolt Alitalia 
towards being more globally competitive, including in its approach to better customer service.
Etihad had its own gripes too, particularly with the Italian government, which raised eyebrows for being too open to 
Ryanair and other low-cost airlines, some people close to the situation say.
But so far, Etihad has declined to blame any of the players involved in the Alitalia collapse for what went wrong. 
People close to the UAE-based carrier say all the decisions they made were done in "good faith".
They downplay any cultural clashes, saying they own airline investments in many countries around the world, and 
have declined to warn that their experience with Alitalia should serve as a warning to other global investors seeking 
to put money into Italy.
The most dispiriting aspect of the Alitalia affair for Etihad is that it was prepared to put new money in the Italian 
carrier this year as part of a EUR2bn financing package that was contingent on a more aggressive restructuring 
plan.
But that was rejected by Alitalia's own employees in a vote on April 14, leaving administration as the only option.
"We have delivered on our commitments since taking our minority share," Mr Hogan said on Tuesday. "Our 
investment, alongside the other shareholders, has helped to protect thousands of jobs over the past three years."
However, this may be of little consolation to Mr Hogan in his role as CEO. He is expected to step down after 11 
years at the helm of Etihad this year amid unease in Abu Dhabi at the high-cost strategy adopted across Europe, 
including at Alitalia.
Long haul 
Years of vying with deep-set problems
Alitalia's move towards bankruptcy yesterday marks the latest moment of distress for an airline that has rarely been 
profitable in the past decades.
Just nine years ago, Italy's flag carrier was in the same position, plunged into administration as its finances 
deteriorated rapidly.
At the time, Silvio Berlusconi, the centre-right prime minister, had refused a merger with Air France, in the name of 
keeping Alitalia in Italian hands.
He cobbled together a group of investors that ended up controlling the airline out of bankruptcy.
Tail end of Alitalia 's 'journey to excellence' Airlines: Legacy carriers
But that effort, too, would fail, leading to the 2014 investment from Etihad, which itself has turned out to be ill-fated.
Load-Date: May 2, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair April traffic grows 14%
Ryanair April traffic grows 14%
Business World (Digest)
May 03, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 156 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair have today released their latest traffic statistics for April which show traffic grew 14% to 11.3m customers 
while load factor rose 3% points to 96%.   Rolling annual traffic to April grew 13% to 121.3m customers.    
Commenting on the figures, Chief Marketing officer at Ryanair, Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair’s April traffic grew by 
14% to 11.3m customers, while our load factor jumped 3% points to 96% (boosted by Easter), on the back of lower 
fares and the continuing success of our “Always Getting Better” customer experience programme."
He added, "Customers can look forward to even lower fares when they make advance bookings for summer and 
winter 2017, so there’s never been a better time to book a low fare flight on Ryanair and we urge all customers who 
wish to book their holidays to do so now on the Ryanair.com website or mobile app, where they can avail of the 
lowest fares in Europe."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: May 12, 2017
End of Document
INSIGHT FROM FLIGHTGLOBAL: Where do Europe’s major LCCs compete directly? E Analysis of 
FlightGlobal schedules data for April covering Europe’s big low-cost car....
INSIGHT FROM FLIGHTGLOBAL: Where do Europe’s major LCCs compete 
directly?;  E Analysis of FlightGlobal schedules data for April covering 
Europe’s big low-cost carriers shows an increase in the proportion of routes 
where two or more of these airlines compete directly.
Flight International
May 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 104 words
Body
Analysis of FlightGlobal schedules data for April covering Europe’s big low-cost carriers shows an increase in the 
proportion of routes where two or more of these airlines compete directly.
We focus on the changing competition between the five major low-cost carriers: EasyJet, Norwegian, Ryanair, Wizz 
Air and Vueling.
 E  Ryanair has added the most capacity with over 5,000 more flights this April than last year.
 E  Europe’s two biggest LCCs, EasyJet and Ryanair, now compete on 74 routes.
 E  Barcelona remains the hotbed of direct low-cost competition with more than 8,000 flights across 132 routes.
Access the analysis now
Load-Date: May 3, 2017
End of Document
WestJet digs deep for budget battle with ultra-low-cost rivals Proposed subsidiary will employ high-density 
configuration on Boeing narrowbody fleet
WestJet digs deep for budget battle with ultra-low-cost rivals; Proposed 
subsidiary will employ high-density configuration on Boeing narrowbody 
fleet
Flight International
May 2, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AIR TRANSPORT
Length: 308 words
Body
Budget carrier WestJet plans to launch an even lower-cost airline later this year to deal with competitive pressure.
The airline, based in Calgary, Canada, says the planned ultra-low-cost carrier (ULCC) will initially operate a fleet of 
10 Boeing 737-800s configured with “high-density” seating, but does not give their capacity. Boeing documents list 
the -800’s maximum occupancy as 184 passengers.
Launch of the subsidiary is contingent on WestJet reaching agreements with pilots and receiving regulatory 
approval, it adds.
“Launching a ULCC will broaden WestJet’s growth opportunities and open new market segments by offering more 
choice to those Canadians looking for lower fares,” says airline chairman Clive Beddoe.
WestJet operates 119 aircraft, including 46 737-800s, according to Flight Fleets Analyzer. These are configured in a 
168-seat layout, the carrier indicates.
The company has outstanding orders for two 737-800s, 25 737 Max 7s and 40 737 Max 8s, Fleets Analyzer data 
shows.
Although not included in the initial proposal, the 737 Max offer room for growth in the ULCC segment: the Max 7 
can accommodate up to 172 passengers in a single-class layout, while the Max 8 can hold 189. A higher-density 
variant, the Max 200, which has been ordered only by low-cost carrier Ryanair, will have 200 seats.
WestJet’s move comes against changes to Canada’s competitive environment, with two ULCC rivals – EnerJet and 
Jetlines – waiting in the wings.
WestJet digs deep for budget battle with ultra-low-cost rivals Proposed subsidiary will employ high-density 
configuration on Boeing narrowbody fleet
WestJet’s executives have downplayed threats posed by the pair, even while responding aggressively to 
competition.
Canada’s sprawling geography and high infrastructure costs would make the ability of an ultra-low-cost airline to 
turn a profit “very difficult”, WestJet chief financial officer Harry Taylor said in September 2016.
Carrier’s current 737-800s have 168 seats, with Max jets also ordered
WestJet
Load-Date: May 5, 2017
End of Document
Alitalia to file for bankruptcy
Alitalia to file for bankruptcy
AirFinance Journal
May 2017
Copyright 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 359 words
Byline: Jack Dutton
Body
The board of directors of struggling airline Alitalia will formerly request it to enter the bankruptcy proceedings, after 
workers rejected a restructuring plan today.
In a statement, the airline said: “Alitalia’s shareholders meeting, convened today, noted with deep regret the 
outcome of the referendum among the employees. The negative vote has determined the inability to implement the 
relaunch and restructuring of the company.”
The Italian shareholders in the airline and equity holder EtihadAirways were prepared to recapitalise and finance 
the restructuring of Alitalia with &euro;2 billion ($2.18 billion), but the plan was voted against by the board of 
directors and the government had already ruled out bailing the carrier out again.
Alitalia has received more than &euro;7 billion from the Italian state over the last decade.
The airline's statement continues: “The board of directors, which convened after the shareholders meeting, having 
acknowledged the unavailability of the shareholders to refinance, and the impossibility to find in a short period of 
time an alternative, has decided unanimously to proceed with the filing for “amministrazione straordinaria” 
(extraordinary administration) in compliance with the Italian law.”
The statement adds that the airline is looking to continue operating its flights for the time being.
Budget carriers Ryanair and Easyjet having been taking a bulk of the carrier’s market share in Italy, which also saw 
a drop in tourism levels after several terrorist attacks in Europe.
Alitalia has also deniedmedia claims that its Cramer Ball, its chief executive officer, is looking to leave the company 
with a multi-million euro severance package.
In a statement, the airline said: “Other media speculation that theCEOof Alitalia Cramer Ball is negotiating an exit 
package worth millions from the airline is completely baseless.”
Speaking at the 19thAnnual Global Airfinance conference, in Dublin in January, Etihad Group chief executive officer 
James Hogan said that Alitalia needed “an Italian solution” if it wants to become profitable again.
Alitalia to file for bankruptcy
Load-Date: June 12, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair authorises â,¬600m share buyback
Ryanair authorises â,¬600m share buyback
AirFinance Journal
May 2017
Copyright 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1321 words
Byline: Olivier Bonnassies
Body
Ryanair's board of directors has authoriseda further &euro;600 million ($671 million) share buyback for its fiscal 
year 2018, ending 31 March.
The Irish low cost carrier says the buyback started earlier this week and will becompleted by the end of October.
In fiscal year 2017, Ryanair's buyback programme reached &euro;1.108 billion. The previous year it totalled 
&euro;1.1 billion
"The success of our buyback programme is underlined by the fact that while profits grew by 6% in FY17, earnings 
per share have accelerated by more than double this rate (14%) to &euro;1.05 in March 2017. We are committed to 
returning surplus cash to shareholders, as long as we are profitable, cash generative, and can fund aircraft CAPEX 
from internally generated revenues," said the carrier.
In fiscal year 2017, Ryanair took delivery of 52 new Boeing 737-800s.
Ryanair 
reported 
a 
6% 
increase 
in 
full 
net 
profits 
to 
&euro;1.31 
billion 
in 
fiscal 
year 
2017. 
div{overflow:hidden}.fb_link 
img{border:none}@keyframes 
fb_transform{from{opacity:0;transform:scale(.95)}to{opacity:1;transform:scale(1)}}.fb_animate{animation:fb_transfor
m .3s forwards} .fb_dialog{background:rgba(82, 82, 82, .7);position:absolute;top:-10000px;z-index:10001}.fb_reset 
.fb_dialog_legacy{overflow:visible}.fb_dialog_advanced{padding:10px;-moz-border-radius:8px;-webkit-border-
radius:8px;border-
radius:8px}.fb_dialog_content{background:#fff;color:#333}.fb_dialog_close_icon{background:url(https://static.xx.fbc
dn.net/rsrc.php/v3/yq/r/IE9JII6Z1Ys.png) 
no-repeat 
scroll 
0 
0 
transparent;cursor:pointer;display:block;height:15px;position:absolute;right:18px;top:17px;width:15px}.fb_dialog_mo
bile 
.fb_dialog_close_icon{top:5px;left:5px;right:auto}.fb_dialog_padding{background-
color:transparent;position:absolute;width:1px;z-index:-1}.fb_dialog_close_icon:hover{background:url(           
https://static.xx.fbcdn.net/rsrc.php/v3/yq/r/IE9JII6Z1Ys.png) 
no-repeat 
scroll 
0 
-15px 
transparent}.fb_dialog_close_icon:active{background:url( 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://static.xx.fbcdn.net/rsrc.php/v3/yq/r/IE9JII6Z1Ys.png) 
no-repeat 
scroll 
0 
-30px 
transparent}.fb_dialog_loader{background-color:#f6f7f9;border:1px 
solid 
#606060;font-
size:24px;padding:20px}.fb_dialog_top_left,.fb_dialog_top_right,.fb_dialog_bottom_left,.fb_dialog_bottom_right{heig
ht:10px;width:10px;overflow:hidden;position:absolute}.fb_dialog_top_left{background:url( 
 
 
 
 
 
     
Ryanair authorises â,¬600m share buyback
https://static.xx.fbcdn.net/rsrc.php/v3/ye/r/8YeTNIlTZjm.png) 
no-repeat 
0 
0;left:-10px;top:-
10px}.fb_dialog_top_right{background:url(           https://static.xx.fbcdn.net/rsrc.php/v3/ye/r/8YeTNIlTZjm.png) no-
repeat 
0 
-10px;right:-10px;top:-10px}.fb_dialog_bottom_left{background:url( 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://static.xx.fbcdn.net/rsrc.php/v3/ye/r/8YeTNIlTZjm.png) 
no-repeat 
0 
-20px;bottom:-10px;left:-
10px}.fb_dialog_bottom_right{background:url(           https://static.xx.fbcdn.net/rsrc.php/v3/ye/r/8YeTNIlTZjm.png) 
no-repeat 
0 
-30px;right:-10px;bottom:-
10px}.fb_dialog_vert_left,.fb_dialog_vert_right,.fb_dialog_horiz_top,.fb_dialog_horiz_bottom{position:absolute;back
ground:#525252;filter:alpha(opacity="70");opacity:.7}.fb_dialog_vert_left,.fb_dialog_vert_right{width:10px;height:100
%}.fb_dialog_vert_left{margin-left:-10px}.fb_dialog_vert_right{right:0;margin-right:-
10px}.fb_dialog_horiz_top,.fb_dialog_horiz_bottom{width:100%;height:10px}.fb_dialog_horiz_top{margin-top:-
10px}.fb_dialog_horiz_bottom{bottom:0;margin-bottom:-10px}.fb_dialog_iframe{line-height:0}.fb_dialog_content 
.dialog_title{background:#6d84b4;border:1px 
solid 
#365899;color:#fff;font-size:14px;font-
weight:bold;margin:0}.fb_dialog_content 
.dialog_title&gt;span{background:url( 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://static.xx.fbcdn.net/rsrc.php/v3/yd/r/Cou7n-nqK52.gif) no-repeat 5px 50%;float:left;padding:5px 0 7px 
26px}body.fb_hidden{-webkit-transform:none;height:100%;margin:0;overflow:visible;position:absolute;top:-
10000px;left:0;width:100%}.fb_dialog.fb_dialog_mobile.loading{background:url( 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://static.xx.fbcdn.net/rsrc.php/v3/ya/r/3rhSv5V8j3o.gif) 
white 
no-repeat 
50% 
50%;min-height:100%;min-
width:100%;overflow:hidden;position:absolute;top:0;z-
index:10001}.fb_dialog.fb_dialog_mobile.loading.centered{width:auto;height:auto;min-height:initial;min-
width:initial;background:none}.fb_dialog.fb_dialog_mobile.loading.centered 
#fb_dialog_loader_spinner{width:100%}.fb_dialog.fb_dialog_mobile.loading.centered 
.fb_dialog_content{background:none}.loading.centered 
#fb_dialog_loader_close{color:#fff;display:block;padding-
top:20px;clear:both;font-size:18px}#fb-root 
#fb_dialog_ipad_overlay{background:rgba(0, 
0, 
0, 
.45);position:absolute;bottom:0;left:0;right:0;top:0;width:100%;min-height:100%;z-index:10000}#fb-root 
#fb_dialog_ipad_overlay.hidden{display:none}.fb_dialog.fb_dialog_mobile.loading 
iframe{visibility:hidden}.fb_dialog_content 
.dialog_header{-webkit-box-shadow:white 
0 
1px 
1px 
-1px 
inset;background:-webkit-gradient(linear, 0% 0%, 0% 100%, from(#738ABA), to(#2C4987));border-bottom:1px 
solid;border-color:#1d4088;color:#fff;font:14px 
Helvetica, 
sans-serif;font-weight:bold;text-overflow:ellipsis;text-
shadow:rgba(0, 
30, 
84, 
.296875) 
0 
-1px 
0;vertical-align:middle;white-space:nowrap}.fb_dialog_content 
.dialog_header 
table{-webkit-font-smoothing:subpixel-antialiased;height:43px;width:100%}.fb_dialog_content 
.dialog_header 
td.header_left{font-size:12px;padding-left:5px;vertical-align:middle;width:60px}.fb_dialog_content 
.dialog_header td.header_right{font-size:12px;padding-right:5px;vertical-align:middle;width:60px}.fb_dialog_content 
.touchable_button{background:-webkit-gradient(linear, 0% 0%, 0% 100%, from(#4966A6), color-stop(.5, #355492), 
to(#2A4887));border:1px 
solid 
#29487d;-webkit-background-clip:padding-box;-webkit-border-radius:3px;-webkit-
box-shadow:rgba(0, 0, 0, .117188) 0 1px 1px inset, rgba(255, 255, 255, .167969) 0 1px 0;display:inline-
block;margin-top:3px;max-width:85px;line-height:18px;padding:4px 
12px;position:relative}.fb_dialog_content 
.dialog_header .touchable_button input{border:none;background:none;color:#fff;font:12px Helvetica, sans-serif;font-
weight:bold;margin:2px -12px;padding:2px 6px 3px 6px;text-shadow:rgba(0, 30, 84, .296875) 0 -1px 
0}.fb_dialog_content .dialog_header .header_center{color:#fff;font-size:16px;font-weight:bold;line-height:18px;text-
align:center;vertical-align:middle}.fb_dialog_content 
.dialog_content{background:url( 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://static.xx.fbcdn.net/rsrc.php/v3/y9/r/jKEcVPZFk-2.gif) no-repeat 50% 50%;border:1px solid #555;border-
bottom:0;border-top:0;height:150px}.fb_dialog_content 
.dialog_footer{background:#f6f7f9;border:1px 
solid 
#555;border-top-color:#ccc;height:40px}#fb_dialog_loader_close{float:left}.fb_dialog.fb_dialog_mobile 
.fb_dialog_close_button{text-shadow:rgba(0, 
30, 
84, 
.296875) 
0 
-1px 
0}.fb_dialog.fb_dialog_mobile 
.fb_dialog_close_icon{visibility:hidden}#fb_dialog_loader_spinner{animation:rotateSpinner 
1.2s 
linear 
infinite;background-color:transparent;background-image:url(           https://static.xx.fbcdn.net/rsrc.php/v3/yD/r/t-
wz8gw1xG1.png);background-repeat:no-repeat;background-position:50% 
50%;height:24px;width:24px}@keyframes 
rotateSpinner{0%{transform:rotate(0deg)}100%{transform:rotate(360deg)}} 
.fb_iframe_widget{display:inline-
block;position:relative}.fb_iframe_widget 
span{display:inline-block;position:relative;text-
align:justify}.fb_iframe_widget 
iframe{position:absolute}.fb_iframe_widget_fluid_desktop,.fb_iframe_widget_fluid_desktop 
span,.fb_iframe_widget_fluid_desktop 
iframe{max-width:100%}.fb_iframe_widget_fluid_desktop 
iframe{min-
Ryanair authorises â,¬600m share buyback
width:220px;position:relative}.fb_iframe_widget_lift{z-index:1}.fb_hide_iframes 
iframe{position:relative;left:-
10000px}.fb_iframe_widget_loader{position:relative;display:inline-
block}.fb_iframe_widget_fluid{display:inline}.fb_iframe_widget_fluid 
span{width:100%}.fb_iframe_widget_loader 
iframe{min-height:32px;z-index:2;zoom:1}.fb_iframe_widget_loader 
.FB_Loader{background:url( 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://static.xx.fbcdn.net/rsrc.php/v3/y9/r/jKEcVPZFk-2.gif) 
no-repeat;height:32px;width:32px;margin-left:-
16px;position:absolute;left:50%;z-index:4} --&gt;
Load-Date: June 19, 2017
End of Document
Wow! Legacy carriers still think they can run budget sub-brands
Wow! Legacy carriers still think they can run budget sub-brands
Financial Times (London, England)
April 27, 2017 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: INSIDE BUSINESS; Pg. 12
Length: 700 words
Byline: Tony Barber in Europe
Body
The day will come when low-cost airlines stop giving themselves names out of Cartoon Central. Before this 
happens, Scoot, Wow Air and other upstart carriers may well have revolutionised the business and passenger 
experience of intercontinental travel.
Scoot and Wow each launched inaugural flights in 2012, Scoot from its Singapore base to Sydney and Wow from 
Reykjavik to Paris. With fleets of 10 and 12 aircraft respectively, it would be easy to dismiss the pair as 
hummingbirds in the crowded skies of long-haul travel. Their ambitions seem to some sceptics absurdly vaulting 
measured against their size.
But former national flag carriers and older low-cost airlines that are in the sights of Scoot and Wow would do well to 
resist complacency. In the late 1990s, Ryanair and easyJet were small, too. Now Ryanair is Europe's largest airline 
in terms of passengers carried, and easyJet occupies fifth place.
Some 35 years ago, the deregulation of Europe's air industry set up the framework essential for the advances of 
Ryanair and easyJet. Today, technological progress and changing attitudes of the travelling public are creating the 
conditions for Scoot, Wow and others to make their mark.
Aircraft manufacturers make bigger planes that fly longer distances at lower cost. Passengers are willing to accept 
no-frills, long-haul flights in return for cheaply priced tickets.
Wow! Legacy carriers still think they can run budget sub-brands
Even if it is a realistic objective, it will take a while for Scoot to establish itself as a force in the Asia-Pacific market. 
The same goes for Wow's aim of emerging as a challenger in Europe to Ryanair, easyJet and legacy airlines such 
as Air France-KLM, Lufthansa and IAG, which owns British Airways and Iberia.
Yet the likes of Norwegian Air Shuttle and Budapest-based Wizz Air are showing how to do it.
From its Scandinavian homeland, Norwegian Air has expanded with routes that link Los Angeles, New York, 
London and Bangkok. The airline, owner of scarcely a dozen aircraft in 2005, has 126 aircraft. From next month, it 
will start to take delivery of dozens more.
As these young airlines build fleets and replace old planes with lighter, more fuel-efficient aircraft, they will make a 
greater impact on long-haul travel.
Scoot, a subsidiary of Singapore Airlines, has retired all six of its older Boeing 777-200ER aircraft. Its fleet consists 
of Boeing 787s, a more economical type of widebody aircraft.
No wonder Tim Clark , head of Emirates, describes the intensifying competition in the long-haul market as "a 
gathering storm".
The woes of Alitalia - which this week appeared, not for the first time, to be edging towards collapse - go back 
further than the challenge from low-cost airlines, but Italy's flag carrier will still be seen as a big victim of their 
success.
Still, as Mr Clark points out, the legacy carriers are taking the fight to the upstarts, seeking to match low-cost 
airlines on price and to outmuscle them by offering a wider variety of routes.
In June, IAG will launch Level, a no-frills long-haul service. From a base in Barcelona, the airline intends to fly not 
only to the US west coast but to Argentina and the Dominican Republic. Air Canada, Air France-KLM and Lufthansa 
are all rolling out similar plans for inexpensive transatlantic travel.
To what extent these initiatives will succeed is an open question. Skuli Mogensen , the Icelandic entrepreneur who 
founded and owns Wow, makes a mischievous but not entirely inaccurate point when he says Europe's legacy 
airlines seem to find it painfully difficult to run discount sub-brands at a profit.
One obstacle, as Air France-KLM can testify , is resistance from unions representing crew and pilots. Moreover, the 
less flexible type of former flag carrier finds it hard to match the cost structures of upstart competitors, which learn 
from birth to keep expenses to a minimum. And legacy airlines have often discovered that low-fare operations 
cannibalise the parts of their business which rely on higher fares.
There will be no single solution to these problems. But the legacy carriers have no choice but to rise to the 
challenge. Scoot, Wow and others may sound frivolous, but the way they are redefining air travel is deadly serious.
tony.barber@ft.com 
Load-Date: April 26, 2017
End of Document
Creative Planning Sells 147 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Creative Planning Sells 147 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
April 26, 2017 Wednesday 11:01 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 704 words
Byline: Hanz Christensen
Body
Apr 26, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Creative Planning decreased 
its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 2.6% during the first quarter, Holdings Channel[1] 
reports. The fund owned 5,562 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 147 shares during the 
period. Creative Planning's holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc were worth $462,000 at the end of the most recent 
reporting period. 
 Several other institutional investors have also added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. Tyers Asset 
Management LLC acquired a new position in Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter valued at about 
$133,000. Flinton Capital Management LLC acquired a new position in Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth 
quarter valued at about $161,000. Castleark Management LLC increased its position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 
18.0% in the fourth quarter. Castleark Management LLC now owns 2,095 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $174,000 after buying an additional 320 shares during the last quarter. Commerzbank 
Aktiengesellschaft FI acquired a new position in Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter valued at about 
$212,000. Finally, Seven Eight Capital LP acquired a new position in Ryanair Holdings plc during the fourth quarter 
valued at about $266,000. 42.80% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors. Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) opened at 91.02 on Wednesday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of 
$66.09 and a 52 week high of $91.87. The company has a market cap of $22.46 billion, a P/E ratio of 16.72 and a 
beta of 0.72. The company's 50-day moving average is $84.52 and its 200-day moving average is $81.79.  
http://www.watchlistnews.com/creative-planning-sells-147-shares-of-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay/1216895.html.  
Several equities analysts have recently issued reports on the stock. Bank of America Corp downgraded shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' rating in a research note on Tuesday, January 3rd. 
Zacks Investment Research downgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'strong-buy' rating to a 'hold' rating 
in a research note on Friday, January 6th. Deutsche Bank AG raised shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' 
rating to a 'buy' rating in a research note on Monday, February 13th. Canaccord Genuity assumed coverage on 
shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating for the 
company. Finally, Barclays PLC reaffirmed a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on 
Tuesday, January 10th. Two equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, four have assigned a 
hold rating and six have assigned a buy rating to the company. Ryanair Holdings plc currently has a consensus 
rating of 'Hold' and an average target price of $93.00. Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc 
(Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, 
scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
Creative Planning Sells 147 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities 
connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and 
the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? 
Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to 
receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related 
companies 
with 
Analyst 
Ratings 
Network's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: April 26, 2017
End of Document
Italy minister: Alitalia to be sold to best bidder, Lufthansa welcome
Italy minister: Alitalia to be sold to best bidder, Lufthansa welcome
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
April 26, 2017 Wednesday 7:11 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 570 words
Byline: Alvise Armellini in Rome
Dateline: Rome (dpa) - 
Body
Alitalia will be sold to the highest bidder and Germany's Lufthansa is welcome to make an offer for it, Transport 
Minister Graziano Delrio said Wednesday, ruling out a government bailout for Italy's near-bankrupt airline.
Alitalia is in trouble since employees rejected in a referendum a rescue plan based on job and wage cuts. 
Shareholders were due to start proceedings for the company to be put under receivership on Thursday, but the 
meeting has been moved to May 2, a spokesman said.
"The company will be sold to the best bidder," Delrio told the La Stampa newspaper. "Some believed that there 
would have been yet another public rescue. I will say it clearly: there will not be one," he added.
Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni, speaking in the southern city of Benevento, confirmed "there is no room for a 
nationalization," but said the government would strive to not break up the company, even though workers' rejection 
of the rescue plan "makes [it] harder."
Asked about the possibility of Lufthansa, Europe's largest airline, taking over Alitalia, Delrio said: "There are no 
obstacles [to it], but it is up to shareholders to take decisions. The ball is in their court."
Italian press reports have repeatedly speculated about a Lufthansa takeover, but the German firm has not 
expressed any interest in public. Alitalia's biggest shareholder is currently United Arab Emirates' Etihad, with a 49-
per-cent stake.
Alitalia's main problem is a loss of business on domestic flights - its former core market - to low-cost airlines like 
Ryanair and high-speed train services, while failing to make significant inroads in more lucrative long-haul routes.
Italy minister: Alitalia to be sold to best bidder, Lufthansa welcome
"Clearly, it had inept managers," Antonio Piras of the Fit-Cisl, one of the unions who signed the failed rescue plan, 
said at a briefing at the Foreign Press Association. "There were many wrong choices over the years, and now we 
are paying the consequences," he noted.
According to Piras, the government is facing a dilemma as both rescuing Alitalia at taxpayer expense and letting it 
go bankrupt with large-scale job losses could cost the ruling Democratic Party votes ahead of elections due by early 
2018.
The trade unionist acknowledged that any possible buyer would be best advised to wait until the company's 
"collapse," to then pick up its customers and assets "spending nothing, or almost nothing. That would be the best 
strategy for them."
In another interview with Il Messaggero newspaper, Industry Minister Carlo Calenda, who brokered negotiations on 
the rejected rescue plan, said the government would only be prepared to offer Alitalia a six-month bridging loan.
Italy's former flag carrier employs about 12,500 people and has not turned a profit since 2002. It was privatized in 
2008, and according to a Mediobanca study, it cost the taxpayer 7.4 billion euros (8 billion dollars) during 1974-
2014 to keep the company afloat.
When Etihad became the leading player in Alitalia in 2014, with Italian banks UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo as 
junior partners, the aim was to return the company to profit by 2017. Last year, it lost an estimated 400 million 
euros.
The plan rejected by workers foresaw a 2-billion-euro recapitalization in return for nearly 1,600 job losses and an 
average 8-per-cent pay cut for the remaining workforce. The package was rejected with 67 per cent voting against.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Rachel More, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: April 27, 2017
End of Document
UPDATE
UPDATE
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
April 26, 2017 Wednesday 7:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 585 words
Body
       Italy minister: Alitalia to be sold to best bidder, Lufthansa welcome By Alvise Armellini, dpa   ROME (dpa-AFX) 
- Alitalia will be sold to the highest bidder and Germany's Lufthansa is welcome to make an offer for it, Transport 
Minister Graziano Delrio said Wednesday, ruling out a government bailout for Italy's near-bankrupt airline.  Alitalia is 
in trouble since employees rejected in a referendum a rescue plan based on job and wage cuts. Shareholders were 
due to start proceedings for the company to be put under receivership on Thursday, but the meeting has been 
moved to May 2, a spokesman said.   'The company will be sold to the best bidder,' Delrio told the La Stampa 
newspaper. 
'Some believed that there would have been yet another public rescue. I will say it clearly: there will not be one,' he 
added.  Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni, speaking in the southern city of Benevento, confirmed 'there is no room for 
a nationalization,' but said the government would strive to not break up the company, even though workers' 
rejection of the rescue plan 'makes [it] harder.'  Asked about the possibility of Lufthansa, Europe's largest airline, 
taking over Alitalia, Delrio said: 'There are no obstacles [to it], but it is up to shareholders to take decisions. The ball 
is in their court.'  Italian press reports have repeatedly speculated about a Lufthansa takeover, but the German firm 
has not expressed any interest in public. Alitalia's biggest shareholder is currently United Arab Emirates' Etihad, 
with a 49-per-cent stake.   Alitalia's main problem is a loss of business on domestic flights - its former core market - 
to low-cost airlines like Ryanair and high-speed train services, while failing to make significant inroads in more 
lucrative long-haul routes.   'Clearly, it had inept managers,' Antonio Piras of the Fit-Cisl, one of the unions who 
signed the failed rescue plan, said at a briefing at the Foreign Press Association. 'There were many wrong choices 
over the years, and now we are paying the consequences,' he noted.  According to Piras, the government is facing 
a dilemma as both rescuing Alitalia at taxpayer expense and letting it go bankrupt with large-scale job losses could 
cost the ruling Democratic Party votes ahead of elections due by early 2018.  The trade unionist acknowledged that 
any possible buyer would be best advised to wait until the company's 'collapse,' to then pick up its customers and 
assets 'spending nothing, or almost nothing. That would be the best strategy for them.'   In another interview with Il 
Messaggero newspaper, Industry Minister Carlo Calenda, who brokered negotiations on the rejected rescue plan, 
said the government would only be prepared to offer Alitalia a six-month bridging loan.  Italy's former flag carrier 
employs about 12,500 people and has not turned a profit since 2002. It was privatized in 2008, and according to a 
UPDATE
Mediobanca study, it cost the taxpayer 7.4 billion euros (8 billion dollars) during 1974-2014 to keep the company 
afloat.  When Etihad became the leading player in Alitalia in 2014, with Italian banks UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo 
as junior partners, the aim was to return the company to profit by 2017. Last year, it lost an estimated 400 million 
euros.   The plan rejected by workers foresaw a 2-billion-euro recapitalization in return for nearly 1,600 job losses 
and an average 8-per-cent pay cut for the remaining workforce. The package was rejected with 67 per cent voting 
against.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: April 26, 2017
End of Document
Italy minister: Alitalia to be sold to best bidder, Lufthansa welcome
Italy minister: Alitalia to be sold to best bidder, Lufthansa welcome
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
April 26, 2017 Wednesday 1:26 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 567 words
Body
       By Alvise Armellini, dpa   ROME (dpa-AFX) - Alitalia will be sold to the highest bidder and Germany's Lufthansa 
is welcome to make an offer for it, Transport Minister Graziano Delrio said Wednesday, ruling out a government 
bailout for Italy's near-bankrupt airline.  Alitalia is in deep trouble since employees rejected in a referendum a 
rescue plan based on job and wage cuts. Its board called a shareholders' meeting for Thursday, to start 
proceedings for the company to be put under receivership.   'The company will be sold to the best bidder,' Delrio 
told the La Stampa newspaper. 
'Some believed that there would have been yet another public rescue. I will say it clearly: there will not be one,' he 
added.  Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni, speaking in the southern city of Benevento, confirmed 'there is no room for 
a nationalization,' but said the government would strive to not break up the company, even though workers' 
rejection of the rescue plan 'makes [it] harder.'  Asked about the possibility of Lufthansa, Europe's largest airline, 
taking over Alitalia, Delrio said: 'There are no obstacles [to it], but it is up to shareholders to take decisions. The ball 
is in their court.'  Italian press reports have repeatedly speculated about a Lufthansa takeover, but the German firm 
has not expressed any interest in public. Alitalia's biggest shareholder is currently United Arab Emirates' Etihad, 
with a 49-per-cent stake.   Alitalia's main problem is a loss of business on domestic flights - its former core market - 
to low-cost airlines like Ryanair and high-speed train services, while failing to make significant inroads in more 
lucrative long-haul routes.   'Clearly, it had inept managers,' Antonio Piras of the Fit-Cisl, one of the unions who 
signed the failed rescue plan, said at a briefing at the Foreign Press Association. 'There were many wrong choices 
over the years, and now we are paying the consequences,' he noted.  According to Piras, the government is facing 
a dilemma as both rescuing Alitalia at taxpayer expense and letting it go bankrupt with large-scale job losses could 
cost the ruling Democratic Party votes ahead of elections due by early 2018.  The trade unionist acknowledged that 
any possible buyer would be best advised to wait until the company's 'collapse,' to then pick up its customers and 
assets 'spending nothing, or almost nothing. That would be the best strategy for them.'   In another interview with Il 
Messaggero newspaper, Industry Minister Carlo Calenda, who brokered negotiations on the rejected rescue plan, 
said the government would only be prepared to offer Alitalia a six-month bridging loan.  Italy's former flag carrier 
employs about 12,500 people and has not turned a profit since 2002. It was privatized in 2008, and according to a 
Mediobanca study, it cost the taxpayer 7.4 billion euros (8 billion dollars) during 1974-2014 to keep the company 
Italy minister: Alitalia to be sold to best bidder, Lufthansa welcome
afloat.  When Etihad became the leading player in Alitalia in 2014, with Italian banks UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo 
as junior partners, the aim was to return the company to profit by 2017. Last year, it lost an estimated 400 million 
euros.   The plan rejected by workers foresaw a 2-billion-euro recapitalization in return for nearly 1,600 job losses 
and an average 8-per-cent pay cut for the remaining workforce. The package was rejected with 67 per cent voting 
against.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: April 26, 2017
End of Document
Alitalia : last rites
Alitalia: last rites
Financial Times (London, England)
April 26, 2017 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 10
Length: 393 words
Body
Not since October 2001, when Swissair's pilots had to pay for aviation fuel in cash and dry clean their own 
uniforms, has a big European airline faced such a humiliating collapse. The Swiss carrier was rescued and sold.
Alitalia might fly the Pope on official business, but it is hard to see why anyone outside Italy would save it.
Swissair had a brand that was worth preserving. Its strategy was misguided but operationally it was solid. Alitalia is 
a basket case . It has not made a profit for years. Its staff have been on strike twice already this year. It has 
swallowed billions in funds - from the government, Italy's banks and Etihad.
The Gulf airline, which bought 49 per cent of Alitalia in a 2014 recapitalisation, is not the first to discover how 
intractable its problems are. Air France was once a shareholder in the group; impatient at the lack of progress in 
restructuring and cost-cutting, it allowed its holding to be diluted in a 2013 capital raising.
It is true that Italy's weak economy has not helped Alitalia. Nor that its hub in Rome became the focus of a price war 
between low-cost carriers. But other legacy carriers, notably Air France-KLM, also face no-frills competition at their 
main hubs. Alitalia has not cut costs or capacity quickly enough; available seat miles in April this year were actually 
higher than in the same month of 2014, according to Ascend Global Services.
Its backers are running out of patience. Etihad is reviewing its stakes in European carriers - fruits of strategy that 
always looked uncannily similar to the expansion plan that did for Swissair. UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo have 
more urgent priorities than propping up Alitalia.
Alitalia : last rites
The landscape has also changed. When Lufthansa agreed to buy Swiss in 2005, Ryanair and easyJet operated 
128 planes. They now have more than 600. Amid this onslaught, and with cost issues of their own, legacy airlines in 
Europe hardly need more short-haul seats. If they did, they would not need to take on the Augean stables of Italy's 
flag carrier to acquire them.
National airlines are notoriously hard to kill off. But shareholders in Lufthansa, Air France and IAG should be 
praying that Alitalia is drastically shrunk, or wound up. That would cut capacity and send a powerful warning to their 
own workforces.
Meanwhile, the famously ascetic pontiff might have to fly no-frills, too.
Load-Date: April 25, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair warns UK will need 'brand new' open skies agreement The UK will need to establish a "brand new" 
open skies arrangement with the European Union following....
Ryanair warns UK will need 'brand new' open skies agreement; The UK will 
need to establish a "brand new" open skies arrangement with the European 
Union following Brexit, Ryanair’s chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs has 
suggested.
Flight International
April 24, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 264 words
Body
The UK will need to establish a "brand new" open skies arrangement with the European Union following Brexit, 
Ryanair’s chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs has suggested.
Speaking today at Routes Europe in Belfast, Jacobs said the current open skies is governed by the European Court 
of Justice (ECJ), and because prime minister Theresa May has said the UK will not be under ECJ jurisdiction, a 
"brand new solution needs to be found".
This will also preclude the UK from adopting the Swiss and Norwegian “solution” because their own unique access 
to EU aviation markets is also governed by the ECJ.
“Both sides need to work on a brand-new arrangement that continues open skies. We think that will happen, but the 
question is when is that going to happen,” he adds.
Jacobs says that this means the continuation of the open skies will need to be “top of the agenda” in upcoming 
negotiations between the UK and the EU regarding the former’s “divorce” settlement from the European bloc.
The Ryanair executive warns that “it is important air travel isn’t disrupted and we don’t have a period of uncertainty, 
or we don’t have a period where you can’t have flights between the UK and Europe”.
Such a scenario is possible, he adds, because Brexit represents “unprecedented territory” and so far it “hasn’t been 
a rational process”.
He also forecasts that airlines will begin reducing capacity to the UK from spring 2018 following the country’s 
triggering of the formal process to exit the EU last month.
Ryanair warns UK will need 'brand new' open skies agreement The UK will need to establish a "brand new" 
open skies arrangement with the European Union following....
Jacobs says that three quarters of all UK leisure and business travel is to countries in the EU.
Load-Date: April 25, 2017
End of Document
Belfast International to gain eight new routes E Belfast International airport is to announce eight new 
international routes in the coming days, managing direct....
Belfast International to gain eight new routes;  E Belfast International airport 
is to announce eight new international routes in the coming days, managing 
director, Graham Keddie discloses.
Flight International
April 24, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 220 words
Body
Belfast International airport is to announce eight new international routes in the coming days, managing director 
Graham Keddie discloses.
Speaking to FlightGlobal at the Routes Europe conference in Belfast today, Keddie says that six of the eight routes 
are to unserved markets and that “one of them is a route which will be the only one operated from this island” in 
reference to both Northern Ireland and Ireland.
Keddie does not disclose the identity of the airline, but tells FlightGlobal that it is an existing carrier operating into 
Belfast and has a “Union Jack on the tail”.
The new routes will be disclosed on 26 April and will be operated from summer 2018, Keddie says.
Keddie confirms that none of the new routes will operate to Germany, which despite being "the world's biggest 
outbound market" remains "woefully" underserved from Northern Ireland. He says that attempts to develop new air 
services to Germany and elsewhere are being hampered by the imposition of the UK's air passenger duty, which 
acts like an "anchor" on Belfast's development.
FlightGlobal schedules data shows that EasyJet is the biggest carrier operating into Belfast International airport, 
followed by Ryanair and Jet2.
Flybe is the biggest operator by seat capacity flying from Belfast City airport, followed by Aer Lingus and British 
Airways.
Load-Date: April 24, 2017
Belfast International to gain eight new routes E Belfast International airport is to announce eight new 
international routes in the coming days, managing direct....
End of Document
Budapest targets 2018 for US route relaunch E Budapest airport aims to re-establish a route to the USA for the 
summer 2018 schedule.
Budapest targets 2018 for US route relaunch;  E Budapest airport aims to re-
establish a route to the USA for the summer 2018 schedule.
Flight International
April 24, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 340 words
Body
Budapest airport aims to re-establish a route to the USA for the summer 2018 schedule.
The airport operator's head of airline development Balazs Bogats told FlightGlobal at the Routes Europe 
conference in Belfast that the airport is in talks with seven airlines about opening direct services between the 
Hungarian capital and either New York or Chicago. He indicates the group includes European and US airlines, and 
third country-based carriers that would operate the services under fifth-freedom rules.
American Airlines and Delta Air Lines previously served Budapest from New York. But the two airlines terminated 
their flights – which led to double-daily services on the route – in 2011. Bogarts asserts the market for direct US 
flights from Budapest has grown in the meantime. But he acknowledges the route would sustain just one rather two 
operators.
Budapest airport foresees scope for further intercontinental routes to destinations such as Bangkok, Beijing and 
Shanghai, says Bogats. But he concedes that traffic growth will primarily come from airlines operating short- and 
medium-haul flights.
Passenger numbers at Budapest increased around 10% in 2016, and grew 17% during the first quarter in 2017. 
Locally-headquartered budget carrier Wizz Air and Ryanair have been central to airport's business growth, though 
TAP Portugal, Ukraine International Airlines and UK regional operator Flybe are opening new routes to Budapest 
too in 2017. Air Canada Rouge launched services from Toronto in 2016, and intends to double frequency to six 
weekly flights this year, says Bogats.
In order to accommodate increased traffic, Budapest airport plans to open in summer 2018 a new terminal pier that 
can handle passengers for long- and short-haul aircraft on 27 positions, comprising both terminal and remote 
parking positions. The airport has also decided to open in 2020 a new terminal, which is primarily designed to 
increase space for additional passenger security check lanes. Under a previous plan, that terminal was scheduled 
to open in 2022.
Budapest targets 2018 for US route relaunch E Budapest airport aims to re-establish a route to the USA for the 
summer 2018 schedule.
Load-Date: April 25, 2017
End of Document
Bologna Airport launches SITA's Scan&Fly self-service bag drop units
Bologna Airport launches SITA's Scan&Fly self-service bag drop units
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 24, 2017 Monday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 329 words
Highlight: Italy's Bologna Guglielmo Marconi Airport has installed a new self-service bag drop service to speed-up 
check-in procedures for passengers.
Body
Italy's Bologna Guglielmo Marconi Airport has installed a new self-service bag drop service to speed-up check-in 
procedures forpassengers.Bologna is the first Italian airport to use global information technology (IT) provider 
SITA's Scan&Fly bag drop units to offer a new self-service option to passengers checking in their baggage.The 
travellers can use the SITA service to check-in their own luggage in less than a minute, which results in shorter 
queues and a faster, smoother passenger experience.Aeroporto di Bologna CEO and managing director Nazareno 
Ventola said: "Our passengers value the convenience of self-service technology from a customer experience point 
of view."Scan&Fly helps improve the passenger flow through the airport terminal, facilitating our rapid 
growth.""From the airport's perspective, Scan&Fly helps improve the passenger flow through the airport terminal, 
facilitating our rapid growth."The self-bag drop units are the latest in a series of options we have been developing 
recently, aimed at providing a smooth, effortless travel experience to all our passengers, with a direct benefit for our 
airlines' operations."The SITA Scan&Fly interface has retrofit capabilities and can be fully integrated with the 
company's AirportConnect common-use platform.Initially, the self-service bag drop units will be used by low-cost 
carrier Ryanair before being rolled out to other airlines.SITA Europe president Dave Bakker said: "An increasing 
number of airlines and airports globally are recognising the benefits that self-bag drop can bring to passengers as 
well as their own operations."The ability to quickly and securely check-in your bag is just one of the ways we can 
help airports streamline the passenger process using self-service, from the moment they check-in to when they 
arrive at the destination."Earlier this year, the company launched its iBorders BorderAutomation ABCGates at 
Bologna Airport to expedite immigration procedures for passengers.
Load-Date: April 30, 2017
End of Document
IAG innovation strategy takes off with stakes in digital start-ups Airlines
IAG innovation strategy takes off with stakes in digital start-ups; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
April 24, 2017 Monday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 418 words
Byline: Tanya Powley, Transport Correspondent
Body
International Airlines Group, the owner of British Airways and Iberia, is taking stakes in two technology start-ups 
following its first digital accelerator programme.
The company has set up a multimillion-pound corporate venture fund to help it find digital start-ups that could help 
improve efficiency and the customer experience.
Its first investments are in Esplorio, a travel journal app that builds a memory of a trip based on travellers' social 
media updates, and VChain, a company that authenticates customer data using blockchain technology.
Stephen Scott, head of global innovation at IAG, said the group planned further investments. "Where we see 
strategic alignment we want to invest in new technologies that will help our business move forward."
The group would not disclose how much it had invested in the two start-ups but said neither was a majority 
shareholding.
The investments come as airlines focus on digital innovation after being slow compared with other industries to 
realise the potential of the market.
IAG innovation strategy takes off with stakes in digital start-ups Airlines
Ryanair, the low-cost airline, has poured money into its Digital Labs team to overhaul its website and improve its 
mobile phone app. The budget airline has previously stated its aim to become the "Amazon for travel" in Europe. 
Lufthansa has its "innovation hub" in Berlin to gain insight from Germany's start-up scene.
While IAG has worked with technology start-ups in Israel and San Francisco, these are the first investments the 
group has made.
Hangar 51 - as its accelerator programme is called - received more than 450 applicants, with five finalists spending 
10 weeks with the company testing their products in the market.
Mr Scott said IAG planned to repeat the programme each year.
"Some of the failings of accelerator programmes in the past has been this step from prototypes to integration 
because they haven't done the hard yards with the processes first. We feel we've done that," he said.
The group plans to spend another six months working with VChain, with the focus on using its technology to help 
IAG speed up the airport check-in process. It is then considering working with other partners to get the technology 
off the ground.
Mr Scott said the big benefit of investing in start-ups was getting innovative ideas quickly to market.
"Speed-to-market in corporates has been more challenging over the years because of the highly regulated market 
we work in, so to be able to construct innovation rather than just have ideas, and get it into the market quickly is 
really important."
Load-Date: April 24, 2017
End of Document
 E Airlines should not pay for increased ground-based security: A4E;  E Airlines should not pay for increased 
ground-based security: A4E
 E Airlines should not pay for increased ground-based security: A4E;  E 
Airlines should not pay for increased ground-based security: A4E
Flight International
April 23, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 230 words
Body
Airlines and airports should not pay for the increased ground-based security measures that have been put in place 
after recent terrorism incidents, says Thomas Reynaert, the managing director of Airlines for Europe (A4E).
"As A4E we would argue that airlines shouldn’t have to pay for this ground-based security," Reynaert said during a 
presentation at Routes Europe in Belfast today, citing the response to terrorism-related incidents in Brussels and 
Paris in recent years.
"We would argue it is up to the government to come up with how they will pay for it," he says.
According to Reynaert, increased security, particularly the technology that enables it, has become a "political 
priority" and the cost burden should sit further back down the chain.
"Ground-based security starts with people not being integrated with society," he says, adding: "It’s not necessarily 
down to even airports. There’s a whole phase of security threat before people actually get to the airport.
"There is no rationale whatsoever for airlines to pay for additional ground-based security," he continues.
Reynaert also took the opportunity to reiterate the airline association's focus on ATC reform, the reduction of airport 
fees and an end to aviation taxes.
A4E represents the operational interests of 14 European airlines and airline groups, including Air France-KLM, 
EasyJet, IAG, Lufthansa Group and Ryanair.
Load-Date: April 24, 2017
End of Document
ANALYSIS: WestJet joins ULCC scramble as Canada's skies evolve E If you can't beat 'em, join 'em. Canada's 
low-cost giant WestJet seems to have heeded that advi....
ANALYSIS: WestJet joins ULCC scramble as Canada's skies evolve;  E If 
you can't beat 'em, join 'em. Canada's low-cost giant WestJet seems to have 
heeded that advice, announcing 20 April plans to launch an ultra-low-cost 
subsidiary late this year.
Flight International
April 21, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 1564 words
Body
If you can't beat 'em, join 'em.
Canada's low-cost giant WestJet seems to have heeded that advice, announcing 20 April plans to launch an ultra-
low-cost subsidiary late this year.
The news, which comes as several other companies work to get ULCC operations off the ground, marks a notable 
position reversal for executives at Calgary-based WestJet.
For months, they had downplayed competitive risk posed by the startups; one executive suggested Canada's 
aviation market poses fundamental challenges to the ULCC model.
Now WestJet intends to jump headlong into a market segment that barely exists in Canada, a pivot that upstarts 
describe as a validation of their own business plans.
Competitors also question if WestJet's airline-in-an-airline will achieve required cost savings. And they note 
WestJet's plan will fail to bring much-needed competition to a domestic air market dominated by Air Canada and 
WestJet.
"Prior to today, there were 35 million Canadians who were convinced they were paying too much for airfares The 
only entity in all the land that seemed to be in denial was WestJet, and today they have changed their mind," Darcy 
Morgan, chief commercial officer at Calgary-based EnerJet, tells FlightGlobal.
Charter carrier EnerJet is among two Canadian companies working to launch a scheduled ULCC. The company 
first called its ULCC project Jet Naked, but later adopted the working name JetToo.
ANALYSIS: WestJet joins ULCC scramble as Canada's skies evolve E If you can't beat 'em, join 'em. Canada's 
low-cost giant WestJet seems to have heeded that advi....
"Today's announcement by WestJet is recognition that millions of Canadians continue to be underserviced by 
airlines in markets throughout the country," says Jim Scott, chief executive of Vancouver-based Jetlines, the other 
hopeful startup. "We believe that what Canadians need, however, is a genuine ultra-low-cost carrier and greater 
competition."
WestJet's move "offers nothing more than an airline-within-an-airline that will not increase competition into the 
market. It remains to be seen whether it will be able to achieve the full benefits of a ULCC," adds Scott in a 
statement.
WestJet has released few details about its ULCC plans, other than to say the unit will launch in late 2017, sell 
"unbundled" fares and operate 10 Boeing 737-800s configured with "high-density" seating, according to a media 
release.
The company does not say how many seats the 737-800s will carry, though some ULCCs such as Ryanair equip 
the type with 189 seats, according to Flight Fleets Analyzer. WestJet's current 737-800s have 168 seats, data 
shows.
The move "will broaden WestJet's growth opportunities and open new market segments", says WestJet board chair 
Clive Beddoe in a media release.
"The worldview on low-cost airlines has changed since the launch of WestJet in 1996, and we are responding," 
adds CEO Gregg Saretsky in the release. "The complete unbundling of services and products in order to lower 
fares for the price-sensitive traveller has created the ULCC category."
TIMES HAVE CHANGED
With almost no ultra-low-cost service,Canada remains an outlier in North America.
For several years, EnerJet and Jetlines sought to launch ULCCs, but Canada lacked sufficient domestic funding for 
their projects, executives said. They pointed to Canadian regulations that cap foreign ownership of Canadian 
airlines at 25% as hindering expanded access to financing.
In November 2016, Canada's federal government granted EnerJet and Jetlines exemptions to those regulations, 
allowing them up to 49% foreign investment. The government will also change the regulation this year to include the 
higher 49% cap, Canadian transport minister Marc Garneau has told FlightGlobal.
A 2015 transportation study, submitted to the transport minister by former lawmaker David Emerson, also 
advocated the higher cap, noting some people call Canada "the land that ultra-low-cost carriers have forgot".
WestJet and Air Canada did not oppose the 49% limit, but had advocated it be made only if the USA also increased 
its cap from 25%, executives said.
Immediately following the exemption, EnerJet announced it expects investment from Indigo Partners, the US firm 
that owns ULCC Frontier Airlines and formerly invested in discounter Spirit Airlines.
"Our intended investor is perhaps the preeminent backer of low-cost carriers in the world. We have access to that 
intellectual capital," says Morgan.
Likewise, in March Jetlines achieved a longtime goal of becoming a publicly-traded company, selling shares on 
Toronto's stock exchange and raising C$6.8 million ($5 million) in the process.
The company hopes to raise another C$40 million in the coming months and achieve Transport Canada approval, 
says Scott. Launch could possibly come in 2017, though could be pushed back to coincide with a period of high 
travel demand, Scott has said.
ANALYSIS: WestJet joins ULCC scramble as Canada's skies evolve E If you can't beat 'em, join 'em. Canada's 
low-cost giant WestJet seems to have heeded that advi....
As a public company, Jetlines has filed details of its plan with Canadian securities regulators.
The documents say many Canadian markets remain under-served by Air Canada and WestJet, which collectively 
carried 81% of all domestic Canadian seats in 2016, according to FlightGlobal schedules data.
The documents highlight several cities within "Jetlines' proposed catchment area", including western Canada cities 
Calgary, Edmonton, Kelowna, Ottawa, Vancouver, Victoria and Winnipeg. The list also includes eastern cities 
Halifax, Hamilton and Montreal.
Jetlines intends initially to operate Boeing 737s – regulatory documents suggest the types will be 149-seat 737-
700s. The company also has orders for five 737 Max 7, Fleets Analyzer shows.
Thanks to high-density seating, "unbundled" pricing, internet sales and a single-fleet-type, Jetlines expects its costs 
will be 36% less than competitors' costs.
The company likewise anticipates fares that are up to 40% less than current fares, which will create "a new market 
of Canadian travellers", Jetlines says in regulatory documents.
Meanwhile, a third company called NewLeaf Travel Company actually started ULCC flights in Canada in 2016.
Unlike Jetlines and EnerJet, NewLeaf is an "indirect air service provider" under Canadian regulations – it sells seats 
on flights operated by a partner, Kelowna-based Flair Airlines.
DOWNPLAYING THREAT
WestJet executives had until 20 April appeared largely unconcerned with ULCC threats.
Canada's sprawling geography and high infrastructure costs would make successfully launching a ULCC "very 
difficult", WestJet chief financial officer Harry Taylor said in September 2016.
"The tough thing about the Canadian airline space is that we have got a geography that is fairly punishing," Taylor 
said, describing Canada as having a "long, thin ribbon of population distributed across a long geography".
"I think it’s a tough road for ultra-low-cost carriers," he added.
During a March investors' conference, Taylor dismissed the higher foreign ownership cap as posing little concern
"We don't view it as a particular threat," he said. "Taking the cap up to 49%, if nothing else, opens the chance up to 
non-Canadians to invest in us."
Nonetheless, WestJet executives repeatedly insisted they would compete vigorously to defend their markets from 
encroachment.
CHANGING COURSE
WestJet's new plan to establish a lower-cost unit within the company puts it on a well-trodden path.
In the last several decades, most US carries launched, then shuttered, discount brands
Delta Air Lines formed Song and Delta Express, United Airlines carved out Shuttle by United and Ted, Continental 
Airlines formed Continental Lite and US Airways created MetroJet.
Air Canada in the early 2000s also launched, and then grounded, discount units Zip and Tango.
The Montreal company gave the idea another shot in 2013 when it launched Rouge.
ANALYSIS: WestJet joins ULCC scramble as Canada's skies evolve E If you can't beat 'em, join 'em. Canada's 
low-cost giant WestJet seems to have heeded that advi....
Air Canada president of passenger airlines Benjamin Smith told FlightGlobal earlier this year that the unit has been 
successful largely because of lower crew costs.
Rouge pilots and flight attendants work under distinct agreements within Air Canada's overarching employment 
contracts, the company has said.
As a result, Rouge can operate aging Airbus A319s and 767s at a substantial discount, enabling Air Canada to 
compete effectively on leisure routes when mainline aircraft would be inefficient, Smith said.
Still, Jetlines' CEO Scott says discount airlines-within-airlines largely don't have impressive records.
"Most airlines-within-airlines that have attempted to offer low-cost options for air travelers have failed in North 
America," he says. "The continent is littered with the graves of these lower-cost airlines, precisely because the 
model doesn't work when the airline is owned by another airline."
ULCC that have succeeded – Allegiant Air, EasyJet, Ryanair, for example – achieved "the full benefits of a ULCC, 
including lower-cost, precisely because they operate independently of a parent carrier", Scott adds.
READY TO COMPETE
"The key to success is having the lowest unit operating cost. Everything has to be built on that," adds EnerJet's 
Morgan. "We don't plan to invent anything unique. This is not a science experience. It is an adoption of well-proven 
best practices."
Unlike WestJet, EnerJet does not have "an existing platform that we have to distance ourselves" from, Morgan 
adds.
He sees WestJet's announcement as a tip of the hat – a glimpse at the type of competition EnerJet will face.
"As of yesterday, we knew this for certain: that WestJet was going to compete with us. We just didn't know how," 
says Morgan. "Now they have told us their strategy. It is going to make it easier for us to prepare."
Load-Date: April 21, 2017
End of Document
ANALYSIS: Belfast hopes for Norwegian long-haul boost E The outlook for Belfast International airport ’s long-
haul business looked bleak at the start of this ye....
ANALYSIS: Belfast hopes for Norwegian long-haul boost;  E The outlook for 
Belfast International airport’s long-haul business looked bleak at the start of 
this year when United Airlines scrapped its Newark service – the Northern 
Ireland gateway’s only transatlantic route.
Flight International
April 20, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 1223 words
Body
The outlook for Belfast International airport's long-haul business looked bleak at the start of this year when United 
Airlines scrapped its Newark service – the Northern Ireland gateway's only transatlantic route.
An attempt to save the route last year via a financial incentive package provided by Northern Ireland's government 
failed after the incentive programme was deemed to have constituted illegal state aid by European regulators. The 
US airline pulled out in January.
Belfast faced the prospect of being cut off from direct links with North America, but the decision by Norwegian to 
begin services to Providence and Stewart airports in the USA using the Boeing 737 Max from July now offers the 
capital city a reprieve.
Airport managing director Graham Keddie says the new services will not only open up new markets for Belfast, but 
also hold the prospect of rekindling other lost routes, such as services to Toronto.
"The Max opens up thin routes on the transatlantic market, it would be great to get the Toronto route back," he tells 
FlightGlobal, ahead of the Routes Europe event in Belfast, which begins on 23 April.
Belfast International lost its link to the Canadian city in 2009 with the collapse of Flyglobespan, and Keddie says 
replacing that service represents the "holy grail" for the gateway.
"In 2009-2010, Belfast and Dublin had an equal number of flights to Canada until the economic crisis in 2008 and 
we are working hard to get that back," he says.
Keddie says Norwegian's new US routes will serve a different market to the one vacated by United and adds that 
sales of the new flights have so far proved to be "very strong".
ANALYSIS: Belfast hopes for Norwegian long-haul boost E The outlook for Belfast International airport ’s long-
haul business looked bleak at the start of this ye....
Independent air transport consultant John Strickland from JLS Consulting says the new Norwegian services will 
target a different segment from the one previously offered to Newark by United. He says the Scandinavian carrier 
will be focused on the point-to-point market, rather than transit travellers, and its pricing strategy will reflect that.
LOW-COST GROWTH
With the addition of Norwegian, Belfast now has four major European budget carriers on its books, with EasyJet, 
Ryanair and Wizz already offering services.
FlightGlobal schedules data shows that EasyJet is by far the largest carrier at Belfast International, with an almost 
77% share of available seat capacity in April, while Ryanair is the next largest carrier, with just over 16%.
Ryanair's decision to open a new base at Belfast International in March 2016 marked its return to a market it had 
not served since 2010. The Irish carrier previously served Belfast City airport until pulling out, citing the decision to 
delay a runway extension project.
Ryanair initially started with seven routes to Alicante, Berlin, Krakow, Lanzarote, Malaga, Bergamo's Orio al Serio, 
near Milan, and Tenerife, and – using slots released by IAG for domestic services – to London Gatwick. This winter 
the carrier is increasing that to 12 routes.
Keddie says the airline is "growing very quickly" at Belfast but adds that EasyJet remains the airport's largest carrier 
"by a long way".
Ryanair and EasyJet are competing with one another on services from London Gatwick to Belfast International and 
Keddie says the route has now become the UK's busiest domestic route.
Elsewhere, the UK carrier is unopposed in linking Belfast with a variety of UK destinations including Edinburgh, 
Glasgow, Bristol and Manchester, FlightGlobal data shows.
Belfast International recorded a 17% rise in passenger numbers in 2016 to 5.15 million and Keddie says domestic 
passenger numbers grew at 19%.
This year Keddie predicts passenger numbers will grow by around 9% to 5.6 million and adds that the double-digit 
growth seen recently will ultimately "slow down".
BELFAST CITY
At Belfast City airport, the capital's downtown hub, passenger numbers were down slightly at 2.67 million in 2016, a 
result, says Katy Best, the gateway’s commercial and marketing director, of Aer Lingus ending its Belfast City-
London Gatwick service when it had to surrender the slots to Ryanair to assuage competition concerns after it 
became part of IAG.
Despite this, Best says Belfast City has built up a good portfolio of "blue chip" carriers that includes KLM, which 
operates a daily service to Amsterdam Schiphol airport, and British Airways, which offers services to London 
Heathrow.
Indeed, the airport has nine daily services to the London gateway.
Best says Belfast City "works closely" with its largest airline partner, Flybe, which provides a range of UK domestic 
destinations including to Liverpool, Birmingham and Southampton. Eastern Airways also operates from the 
gateway.
While hub connectivity is “important”, Best says the airport is also seeking to supplement its leisure network with 
new routes. FlightGlobal schedules shows that Aer Lingus operates flights to Spanish sun destinations such as 
Malaga, Alicante and Palma de Majorca.
ANALYSIS: Belfast hopes for Norwegian long-haul boost E The outlook for Belfast International airport ’s long-
haul business looked bleak at the start of this ye....
Icelandair, through its regional subsidiary, Air Iceland, will provide a link to Reykjavik from Belfast City from June. 
Eastern Airways has stepped in to provide services between the city airport and the Isle of Man after the demise of 
Citywing.
Meanwhile, Belfast City is preparing for new owners following 3i Group's purchase of the gateway from EISER 
Global Infrastructure Fund in December 2016. Best says she expects the acquisition should be completed within 
the next month or two and after that the airport's management will find out more about the London-based private 
equity group's plans for the gateway.
BREXIT AND APD
While the impact of Brexit on border controls into Northern Ireland is still unclear, Belfast International’s Keddie says 
that so far, the UK vote to exit the EU has had a positive impact on the airport.
He says the weakening of sterling against the euro following the referendum has been "very attractive to inbound 
travellers from the south coming up over the border to use us to fly, particularly from the border counties such as 
Donegal and Monaghan as it's an hour’s drive so very much closer than Dublin".
While this is welcome, Keddie says the currency attraction cannot completely outweigh the "high drag" factor of the 
UK’s air passenger duty (APD).
He points out that the tax has a detrimental effect by encouraging people in Northern Ireland to fly out of Dublin 
airport, where there is currently no passenger tax.
Passengers in Northern Ireland are already exempted from paying APD on long-haul routes, but Keddie says efforts 
to have the tax rescinded completely are being hampered by the country's current political crisis, which has left it 
without a functioning government for a number of weeks.
Despite this, Keddie says: "I won’t shut up about it, and I imagine [Belfast] City airport feels the same way".
Strickland describes the Northern Ireland tourism market as very "traditional", with an inclination for holidays in 
"tried and tested" locations such as Spain and the Mediterranean, but also increasingly to places in the USA such 
as Florida. "If the fall in the pound makes those places more expensive, we will have to see how that impacts 
demand," he adds.
Best is also staying positive about the impact of Brexit, pointing out that as long as some form of open-skies 
arrangement is put in place, the airport will continue to have opportunities to open up new city pairs and business-
focused routes across Europe.
Load-Date: April 20, 2017
End of Document
Reliance Trust Co. of Delaware Raises Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Reliance Trust Co. of Delaware Raises Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
Watchlist News
April 19, 2017 Wednesday 5:46 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 789 words
Byline: Mark Dietrich
Body
Apr 19, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Reliance Trust Co. of 
Delaware boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 22.5% during the first quarter, 
according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The fund owned 9,615 
shares of the transportation company's stock after buying an additional 1,764 shares during the period. 
Reliance Trust Co. of Delaware's holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc were worth $798,000 at the end of the most 
recent quarter.  Other hedge funds have also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the company. Mirae Asset 
Global Investments Co. Ltd. purchased a new stake in Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter valued at about 
$2,551,000. State Street Corp increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 35.0% in the fourth quarter. State 
Street Corp now owns 324,522 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $27,016,000 after buying an 
additional 84,140 shares during the period. Todd Asset Management LLC increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings 
plc by 12.7% in the third quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now owns 331,598 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $24,880,000 after buying an additional 37,461 shares during the period. Manning ...pier 
Advisors LLC increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 2.8% in the third quarter. Manning ...pier Advisors LLC 
now owns 1,938,000 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $145,406,000 after buying an 
additional 52,262 shares during the period. Finally, Lazard Asset Management LLC increased its stake in Ryanair 
Holdings plc by 33.7% in the third quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 3,330,852 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $249,913,000 after buying an additional 838,744 shares during the period. 
Institutional investors and hedge funds own 42.80% of the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded up 0.92% during mid-day trading on Wednesday, hitting $87.78. The stock had a 
trading volume of 44,611 shares. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $66.09 and a 12 month high of 
$89.67. The company has a market cap of $21.66 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.08 and a beta of 0.72. The 
firm's 
50-day 
moving 
average 
is 
$83.35 
and 
its 
200 
day 
moving 
average 
is 
$81.17.  
http://www.watchlistnews.com/reliance-trust-co-of-delaware-raises-position-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-
ryaay/1203071.html.   Several analysts recently issued reports on RYAAY shares. Bank of America Corp 
downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' rating in a research note on Tuesday, 
January 3rd. Canaccord Genuity initiated coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Thursday, 
January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. Deutsche Bank AG upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 
'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research report on Monday, February 13th. Zacks Investment Research 
downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'strong-buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Friday, January 
Reliance Trust Co. of Delaware Raises Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
6th. Finally, Barclays PLC reiterated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on 
Tuesday, January 10th. Two research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, four have given a hold rating 
and six have given a buy rating to the company. The company presently has an average rating of 'Hold' and an 
average target price of $93.00. Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a 
holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline 
serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and 
Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air 
passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily 
summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst 
Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter[3]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 2]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            
http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: April 19, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Given Coverage Optimism Rating of -0.12
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Given Coverage Optimism Rating of -0.12
American Banking and Market News
April 19, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 434 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Media stories about Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have been trending 
somewhat negative this week, Alpha One Sentiment Analysis reports. Alpha One, a division of Accern, ranks the 
sentiment of press coverage by monitoring more than 20 million blog and news sources. Alpha One ranks coverage 
of publicly-traded companies on a scale of -1 to 1, with scores nearest to one being the most favorable. Ryanair 
Holdings plc earned a news sentiment score of -0.12 on Alpha One's scale. Alpha One also assigned news stories 
about the transportation company an impact score of 100 out of 100, meaning that recent press coverage is 
extremely likely to have an effect on the company's share price in the next several days.  
A number of analysts recently commented on the company. Zacks Investment Research lowered Ryanair Holdings 
plc from a "hold" rating to a "sell" rating in a report on Tuesday, April 11th. Barclays PLC  reiterated a "buy" rating 
on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on Tuesday, January 10th. Kepler Capital Markets lowered Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Friday, February 10th. Canaccord Genuity assumed 
coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a "buy" rating on the stock. 
Finally, Bank of America Corp lowered Ryanair Holdings plc from a "neutral" rating to an "underperform" rating in a 
report on Tuesday, January 3rd. Two investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, four have issued  a 
hold rating and six have assigned  a buy rating to the stock. The company currently has an average rating of "Hold" 
and an average price target of $93.00. 
Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) opened at 86.98 on Wednesday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-
week low of $66.09 and a 52-week high of $89.67. The stock has a market capitalization of $21.46 billion, a P/E 
ratio of 15.93 and a beta of 0.72. The firm has a 50-day moving average price of $83.35 and a 200-day moving 
average price of $81.17.   
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Load-Date: June 20, 2017
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Given Coverage Optimism Rating of -0.12
End of Document
ANALYSIS: Where do Europe's major LCCs compete directly?; Analysis of FlightGlobal schedules data for 
April covering Europe's big low-cost carriers shows an inc....
ANALYSIS: Where do Europe's major LCCs compete directly?; Analysis of 
FlightGlobal schedules data for April covering Europe's big low-cost carriers 
shows an increase in the proportion of routes where two or more of these 
airlines compete directly, albeit that there is head-to-head competition 
between these operators on only a minority of their routes.
Flight International
April 18, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 1420 words
Body
Analysis of FlightGlobal schedules data for April covering Europe's big low-cost carriers shows an increase in the 
proportion of routes where two or more of these airlines compete directly, although there is still head-to-head 
competition between these operators on only a minority of their routes.
FlightGlobal's annual analysis of overlapping routes among EasyJet, Norwegian, Ryanair, Wizz Air and Vueling 
shows increases for all five carriers in the proportion of flights deployed on routes in direct competition with at least 
one other of these operators. In total, almost a quarter of all flights operated by these five carriers this month are on 
routes where there is competition between airlines in the group.
All five carriers have boosted capacity this April compared with the same month in 2016, FlightGlobal schedules 
data shows. And all five now deploy a bigger share of their overall flights on routes where there is competition 
between major LCCs.
Of the five, Ryanair has added the most capacity over the last year. The Dublin-based budget carrier will have 
operated just over 5,000 more flights this April than in the same month of 2016. Of these, 19% are on routes where 
at least one of the other major LCCs operates. That is slightly higher than the 18% share in April 2016.
RYANAIR VERSUS EASYJET
Europe's two biggest LCCs EasyJet and Ryanair have largely steered clear of direct competition during their 
development, aside from some small skirmishes. The continued expansion of both, particularly Ryanair, mean the 
two now compete on 74 routes, across which they operate a little over 4,500 flights each.
ANALYSIS: Where do Europe's major LCCs compete directly?; Analysis of FlightGlobal schedules data for 
April covering Europe's big low-cost carriers shows an inc....
While this is the highest overlap between Europe's low-cost operators, it relates only to a small part of their 
respective networks. The overlapping routes account for 7.5% of Ryanair's flights, for example.
The two carriers largely overlap on routes from the UK to Mediterranean resorts – competing on nine routes from 
Bristol and eight from Liverpool, London Stansted and Manchester.
But it is at Berlin Schonefeld – where Ryanair has built up its network since launching a base in the German capital 
18 months ago – that the carriers compete on the most routes, facing off on 12.
Highest-frequency competition between the pair occurs at Belfast International-London Gatwick. The two will have 
operated over 600 flights in April on the route – EasyJet operating the route six times a day and Ryanair four times 
daily. Ryanair's arrival last winter on Catania-Milan Malpensa has brought the two carriers into competition in the 
Italian market – the two operating almost 500 flights in April between them.
But while it remains a relatively small part of their respective networks, it is an increase of around 50% on the same 
point a year ago. EasyJet and Ryanair are this month competing directly on 28 routes that they did not a year ago, 
analysis of FlightGlobal schedules data shows.
It is Ryanair that has mostly added to competition on these routes, including five from Schonefeld and four from 
Belfast, with EasyJet moving to compete directly with Ryanair on only three routes – London Luton to Lanzarote 
and Tenerife, as well as Manchester to Krakow – while a fourth, Bristol to Ibiza, marks merely an earlier start to its 
summer service.
By the same token there are three routes where the two had been competing head-to-head: Schonefeld-Brussels, 
Luton-Copenhagen and London Gatwick-Seville. EasyJet ended its Schonefeld-Brussels and Luton-Copenhagen 
flights on 25 March; Ryanair dropped its Gatwick-Seville service at the end of last year.
RYANAIR VERSUS VUELING
In terms of the number of routes, Ryanair's biggest overlap is with EasyJet, but the Irish carrier still has fractionally 
more capacity deployed on flights overlapping with Vueling. The two carriers directly compete on 62 routes, 
spanning almost 5,000 flights a month from both operators.
Almost half of the overlap is at Barcelona El Prat airport – from which the two carriers directly compete on 27 
routes.
The two airlines have added a dozen new routes on which they directly compete – split equally in terms of which 
airline has begun services in the last 12 months. All these routes are to Spanish resorts, bar one: Ryanair's 
Barcelona connection to its new Naples base.
Vueling, though, has dropped three routes on which it formerly competed directly with Ryanair: Copenhagen-
Alicante, Hamburg-Malaga and Rome Fiumicino-Malta.
There are also now a dozen routes where Ryanair and Vueling compete with Norwegian, including seven from 
Barcelona.
EASYJET VERSUS VUELING
Of all the major European LCCs, Vueling has always been the operator with the largest direct competition with its 
LCC rivals. That in part reflects its main base being at Barcelona – where EasyJet, Norwegian and Vueling are also 
present. But it also reflects Vueling's strength in serving Spanish holiday-resort destinations – another staple of low-
cost rivals.
FlightGlobal schedules data shows that more than half of Vueling's flights this month are being deployed on routes 
where one of the four major European LCC rivals compete.
ANALYSIS: Where do Europe's major LCCs compete directly?; Analysis of FlightGlobal schedules data for 
April covering Europe's big low-cost carriers shows an inc....
Vueling now competes directly with EasyJet on seven more routes than it did in April last year, and the two have the 
fourth-highest number of direct match-ups – competing on 32 routes. The additional routes are largely new Vueling 
services from Paris Charles de Gaulle and links to Spanish resorts – though both carriers have started Lisbon-
Zurich flights since last April.
While Vueling has added most of the new direct competition with EasyJet, it has also come off four routes on which 
it formerly competed with the UK carrier.
RYANAIR VERSUS WIZZ AIR
One of the fastest-growing areas of direct competition among the major LCCs is between Ryanair and Wizz Air. In 
April 2016, the two airlines directly competed on 19 routes. This April the two will compete on 30 routes. That 
follows Ryanair's move in October to open a base at Sofia – where the two now directly compete on seven routes. 
The airlines are now also in opposition on several routes from Gdansk in Poland and at another new Ryanair base, 
Timisoara in Romania.
Interestingly, all the new match-ups between Wizz and Ryanair have been instigated by the Irish carrier – and it is 
Wizz that has exited the three routes where the two no longer compete directly.
By comparison, Wizz has little or no direct overlap with any of the three major European LCCs. The direct 
competition with Ryanair in part reflects the Irish carrier's continued expansion in central and eastern Europe, but 
also that Wizz is one of the few European operators to serve many of the secondary airports that Ryanair originally 
built much of its reputation developing. The two carriers compete on a number of routes from secondary airports 
like Bergamo Orio al Serio near Milan; Brussels Charleroi; Hahn, near Frankfurt; and Rome Ciampino.
MULTIPLE PLAYERS
Alicante-Manchester now attracts four of the big low-cost players – as everyone but Wizz operates on the route. 
Vueling and Norwegian joined the fray last summer.
Ryanair has the highest frequency, serving the Spanish resort twice daily. EasyJet operates the route daily, while 
Norwegian and Vueling also serve the market. They are among eight carriers on the route, which is also contested 
by leisure carriers Monarch Airlines, Jet2, Thomson Airways and Thomas Cook.
Norwegian, Ryanair and Vueling compete as a trio on 11 routes, chiefly from Barcelona. They include Barcelona to 
Palma de Mallorca, on which the three carriers operate 432 return flights on, with Vueling accounting for more than 
half of them. Air Europe also contests the route.
Barcelona remains a hotbed of direct low-cost competition. The five LCCs are operating more than 8,000 flights 
from the airport, across 132 routes, this month. Of these, 50 routes have two more of these LCCs operating.
Four new Barcelona routes have additional competition this April. Norwegian has launched competing services 
against Vueling to Bilbao, Dusseldorf and Reykjavik, while Ryanair now flies against Wizz on the Sofia route. 
Vueling, though, has dropped off the Newcastle and Stavanger routes, on which it had been competing with 
Norwegian.
Editor's note: New routes are defined as those operated in April 2017 but not in April 2016 in FlightGlobal schedules 
data - in some cases this includes summer services which have started later (ie after April) in the summer of 2016. 
Dropped routes are defined as those operated in April 2016 but not in April in 2017 nor in the second quarter 2017 
schedules data;
Load-Date: April 21, 2017
ANALYSIS: Where do Europe's major LCCs compete directly?; Analysis of FlightGlobal schedules data for 
April covering Europe's big low-cost carriers shows an inc....
End of Document
Norwegian Air reaches for the skies as it eyes future routes; Rebecca Smith talks to the CEO of the punchy 
carrier giving bigger players a run for their money
Norwegian Air reaches for the skies as it eyes future routes; Rebecca Smith 
talks to the CEO of the punchy carrier giving bigger players a run for their 
money
City A.M.
April 18, 2017 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 8
Length: 750 words
Byline: Rebecca Smith
Body
BJORN Kjos' colourful career has spanned stints as a lawyer, author and a fighter pilot, though he's best known 
these days for his role as chief executive of Norwegian Air Shuttle, the low-cost airline causing waves with its long-
haul ambitions.
Recently, this has included lowpriced transatlantic flights, costing from £69 for a no-frills, one-way ticket from the 
UK to New York. The carrier plumped for secondary airports as opposed to the likes of JFK and Newark to keep 
costs down, along with using a young fleet of fuel-efficient planes.
"I don't think we do anything very differently," Kjos says of the airline's success. "I used to say the secret of low-
cost, long-haul is there is no secret. It's very much like on short-haul; you will not see any well-run low-cost 
operators with old airplanes."
Still, the low-cost, long-haul venture has not proved the easiest nut to crack for airlines and Norwegian's rise, now 
Europe's third largest low-cost carrier, has not gone unnoticed. In fact, British Airways owner IAG recently 
announced the launch of new Barcelona-based airline Level; a lowcost and long-haul competitor. Kjos is fairly 
circumspect on this development. He says competition is good for the industry, though does add wryly: "You can't 
paint the aircraft and say 'now we are a low-cost airline'."
"There are a lot of things they have to do in order to create a low-cost airline. Willie Walsh is a smart guy so he 
might be able to do it," Kjos says.
Norwegian Air reaches for the skies as it eyes future routes; Rebecca Smith talks to the CEO of the punchy 
carrier giving bigger players a run for their money
Norwegian is based at Gatwick in London, and its boss is adamant, "one runway is definitely not enough" when it 
comes to airport expansion.
Heathrow got the green light last October, but Kjos thinks if that is it for the foreseeable future, it will be bad news 
for both London's airports (and the airlines using them), and also the capital's tourism.
" Yo u won't get the tourists into London, they will fly to Paris, or they'll fly to Rome or Barcelona or other places, 
because they can't get access and you'll have a limited amount of flights into London," Kjos says.
Coming up on the calendar for Norwegian is its much discussed tie-up with Ryanair on feeder flights. The 
partnership will allow passengers to book connecting flights on both airlines and allow them to compete with bigger 
airlines. Kjos said the tie-up should be ready ahead of this summer, and is just dependent on IT niggles being 
ironed out.
He already has an eye on further collaboration in the future. "I think there are a lot of untapped markets and it's very 
interesting for Ryanair, EasyJet and Norwegian."
As for flying with airlines outside of his own, Kjos says with a smile: "Sometimes I have to!" He is quick to add: "I try 
to fly on low fares, so normally Ryanair and Easy-Jet, and if I fly in the US I try to fly with JetBlue."
Looking ahead, Kjos flags a couple of areas of potential turbulence.
"Having access. All governments have had a bad tendency, except for the British government which is very good in 
that respect, but other countries have a tendency to try and protect their old airlines that should have gone bankrupt 
years ago," Kjos says. "That's one thing and the other thing is terror."
For now though, he has his sights set on bolstering Norwegian's routes further.
"I'm looking forward to flying to lots of other continents, because I know that there are a lot of hidden areas on the 
globe," Kjos says. "Like South America is a hidden jewel, but it is so expensive to fly to South America, and it's 
even very expensive to fly within South America. So that will change."
His prediction on the prospects of upcoming mergers and acquisitions within the airline industry is that it is a matter 
of when rather than if.
"You will see that the shop on the corner is disappearing sadly enough, and it is the large stores that survive. 
Airlines are just another sort of retail, in my opinion, airlines will have to grow bigger and bigger, because scale is 
vital in this industry as it is in any other consumer industry," he says.
"A lot of airlines have merged without any great success; airlines are a complicated structure. However, I think a 
smaller airline, unless they are already in a niche area, will not be able to survive."
As for a possible Norwegian merger, Kjos says he'd only be looking up. "We would never merge out of weakness," 
he says. "If you ask me as a businessman, I would always say if I ever should merge it would be with an airline 
that's at least as good as Norwegian."
You won't get the tourists into London... they will fly to Paris
Graphic
 
Norwegian is based in Gatwick
Norwegian Air reaches for the skies as it eyes future routes; Rebecca Smith talks to the CEO of the punchy 
carrier giving bigger players a run for their money
Load-Date: April 18, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded by Zacks Investment Research to 'Sell'
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded by Zacks Investment Research 
to 'Sell'
DailyPolitical
April 17, 2017 Monday 1:15 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 819 words
Byline: Latisha Jones
Body
Apr 
17, 
2017( 
DailyPolitical: 
http://www.dailypolitical.com/ 
Delivered 
by 
Newstex) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.dailypolitical.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgZacks Investment Research downgraded shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) from a hold rating to a sell rating in a research note issued to investors on 
Tuesday.  According to Zacks, 'Ryanair operates an ultra-low cost, scheduled airline serving short-haul, point-to-
point routes largely in Europe from its bases in airports across Europe. 
The company offers over 1,600 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving airports largely throughout Europe, with 
a principal fleet of Boeing 737-800 aircraft. ' A number of other equities analysts also recently weighed in on the 
company. Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a hold rating to a buy rating in a research report on 
Monday, February 13th. Bank of America Corp downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a neutral rating to an 
underperform rating in a research report on Tuesday, January 3rd. Canaccord Genuity started coverage on Ryanair 
Holdings plc in a research report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a buy rating on the stock. Kepler Capital 
Markets downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a buy rating to a hold rating in a research report on Friday, 
February 10th. Finally, Barclays PLC reissued a buy rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report 
on Tuesday, January 10th. Two investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, four have issued a hold 
rating and six have issued a buy rating to the company. The company currently has an average rating of Hold and a 
consensus target price of $93.00.  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) opened at 86.02 on Tuesday. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $66.09 and a 52-week high of $89.67. The company's 50 day moving 
average price is $82.97 and its 200 day moving average price is $80.85. The company has a market cap of $21.22 
billion, a P/E ratio of 15.75 and a beta of 0.72.  http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/04/17/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-
downgraded-by-zacks-investment-research-to-sell.html. Several institutional investors have recently bought and 
sold shares of the stock. Bank of Montreal Can increased its position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 8.8% in the third 
quarter. Bank of Montreal Can now owns 69,980 shares of the company's stock valued at $5,250,000 after buying 
an additional 5,654 shares during the last quarter. 1st Global Advisors Inc. increased its position in Ryanair 
Holdings plc by 8.6% in the third quarter. 1st Global Advisors Inc. now owns 5,002 shares of the company's stock 
valued at $375,000 after buying an additional 394 shares during the last quarter. World Asset Management Inc 
increased its position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 6.6% in the third quarter. World Asset Management Inc now owns 
17,045 shares of the company's stock valued at $1,279,000 after buying an additional 1,050 shares during the last 
quarter. Manning ...pier Advisors LLC increased its position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 2.8% in the third quarter. 
Manning ...pier Advisors LLC now owns 1,938,000 shares of the company's stock valued at $145,406,000 after 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded by Zacks Investment Research to 'Sell'
buying an additional 52,262 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Todd Asset Management LLC increased its 
position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 12.7% in the third quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now owns 331,598 
shares of the company's stock valued at $24,880,000 after buying an additional 37,461 shares during the last 
quarter. 42.80% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors.  About Ryanair Holdings plc Ryanair 
Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low 
fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities 
connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and 
the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.Get a free copy of the Zacks research report on Ryanair 
Holdings plc (RYAAY)[2] For more information about research offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit 
Zacks.com[3] Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a 
concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with 
MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter[4]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=zrmodule...D=AMERBMN_CONTENT_ZER...p_rpt_name_check=s
kip_rpt_name_check...YAAY [ 3]:            http://www.zacks.com/ [ 4]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: April 18, 2017
End of Document
Norwegian would
Norwegian would
Financial Times (London, England)
April 15, 2017 Saturday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 18
Length: 264 words
Body
Jetting off for the holidays? You could soon have a choice of oddly-named low-cost carriers for long-haul routes, as 
both Air France and IAG plan to launch subsidiaries. Yet the jury is still out on whether the low-cost model can work 
on longer routes.
In theory, it should. The fixed costs of flying are spread over longer segments, reducing costs per seat-kilometre. 
There is more scope for ancillary revenue; who wants to sit without a drink for a six-hour flight? Creating new units 
enables carriers to undercut labour agreements in their existing businesses - Air France says that Boost, its long-
haul offshoot , will have unit costs a fifth lower.
Like Lufthansa's Eurowings and IAG's Level, Boost is partly a response to Norwegian Air Shuttle. The Scandinavian 
operator started as a short-haul airline but Citigroup thinks half its capacity will be long-haul by 2019. Aircraft on its 
transatlantic routes are full and it makes healthy ancillary revenues. Costs per available seat-kilometre are similar to 
low-cost carriers and will fall again as it flies to small US airports using Boeing 737s . Legacy carriers, which make 
much of their profit in long-haul, have taken note.
But Norwegian is going on a bender. In Europe, only Ryanair (carrying four times as many passengers) has more 
aircraft on order. This will strain Norwegian's balance sheet. Debt and lease obligations have grown far faster than 
equity and its shares have underperformed peers in the past year. The more incremental approach taken by the 
legacy carriers should yet prove wiser.
Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com 
Norwegian would
Load-Date: April 14, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Earning Somewhat Positive Press Coverage, AlphaOne Reports
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Earning Somewhat Positive Press Coverage, 
AlphaOne Reports
American Banking and Market News
April 14, 2017 Friday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 463 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Media coverage about Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has been trending 
somewhat positive this week, AlphaOne Sentiment reports. The research firm, a unit of Accern, scores the 
sentiment of press coverage by reviewing more than twenty million blog and news sources in real-time. AlphaOne 
ranks coverage of publicly-traded companies on a scale of -1 to 1, with scores nearest to one being the most 
favorable. Ryanair Holdings plc earned a news sentiment score of 0.02 on AlphaOne's scale. AlphaOne also 
assigned news coverage about the company an impact score of 88 out of 100, indicating that recent press 
coverage is very likely to have an effect on the company's share price in the next few days.  
RYAAY has been the subject of several research reports. Deutsche Bank AG upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings 
plc from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Monday, February 13th. Bank of America Corp 
lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "neutral" rating to an "underperform" rating in a research report on 
Tuesday, January 3rd. Zacks Investment Research upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "sell" rating to 
a "hold" rating in a research report on Friday, February 10th. Canaccord Genuity initiated coverage on shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Thursday, January 26th. They issued a "buy" rating for the company. 
Finally, Kepler Capital Markets lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a 
research report on Friday, February 10th. Two equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, 
four have given a hold rating and six have given a buy rating to the stock. Ryanair Holdings plc currently has a 
consensus rating of "Hold" and an average price target of $93.00. 
Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) traded down 0.32% on Friday, reaching $86.02. 120,165 shares 
of the company traded hands. The firm has a market capitalization of $21.22 billion, a P/E ratio of 15.71 and a beta 
of 0.72. The stock has a 50-day moving average price of $82.97 and a 200 day moving average price of $80.85. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of $89.67.  
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Earning Somewhat Positive Press Coverage, AlphaOne Reports
Load-Date: June 20, 2017
End of Document
Brokerages Anticipate Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) to Announce $0.24 Earnings Per Share
Brokerages Anticipate Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) to Announce $0.24 
Earnings Per Share
Watchlist News
April 13, 2017 Thursday 12:41 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 900 words
Byline: Lindsey Winhoffer
Body
Apr 13, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Brokerages expect that 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) will post earnings of $0.24 per share for the current quarter, according to 
Zacks Investment Research[1]. Zero analysts have provided estimates for Ryanair Holdings plc's earnings. Ryanair 
Holdings plc reported earnings of $0.25 per share during the same quarter last year, which indicates a negative 
year over year growth rate of 4%. The company is scheduled to issue its next quarterly earnings report on Monday, 
May 22nd. According to Zacks, analysts expect that Ryanair Holdings plc will report full-year earnings of $5.67 per 
share for the current financial year, with EPS estimates ranging from $5.56 to $5.78. For the next year, analysts 
expect that the firm will report earnings of $5.97 per share, with EPS estimates ranging from $5.56 to $6.38. Zacks' 
EPS calculations are a mean average based on a survey of sell-side analysts that cover Ryanair Holdings 
plc.Several equities analysts have issued reports on RYAAY shares. 
Deutsche Bank AG raised shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a report on Monday, 
February 13th. Bank of America Corp downgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'neutral' rating to an 
'underperform' rating in a report on Tuesday, January 3rd. Zacks Investment Research upgraded shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Friday, February 10th. Canaccord Genuity 
assumed coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Thursday, January 26th. They issued 
a 'buy' rating for the company. Finally, Kepler Capital Markets cut shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating 
to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Friday, February 10th. Two investment analysts have rated the stock with a 
sell rating, four have issued a hold rating and six have issued a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock 
currently has an average rating of 'Hold' and an average price target of $93.00.The original version of this news 
story can be accessed at http://www.watchlistnews.com/brokerages-anticipate-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-to-
announce-0-24-earnings-per-share/1193247.html.  Large investors have recently modified their holdings of the 
stock. Ameriprise Financial Inc. boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 8.3% in the third quarter. 
Ameriprise Financial Inc. now owns 1,214,073 shares of the company's stock worth $91,050,000 after buying an 
additional 93,349 shares during the period. BlackRock Group LTD boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings 
plc by 1.9% in the third quarter. BlackRock Group LTD now owns 119,815 shares of the company's stock worth 
$8,990,000 after buying an additional 2,200 shares during the period. Teachers Advisors LLC boosted its stake in 
shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 3.0% in the third quarter. Teachers Advisors LLC now owns 59,532 shares of the 
company's stock worth $4,467,000 after buying an additional 1,742 shares during the period. BlackRock Fund 
Advisors boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.5% in the third quarter. BlackRock Fund Advisors 
Brokerages Anticipate Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) to Announce $0.24 Earnings Per Share
now owns 661,722 shares of the company's stock worth $49,649,000 after buying an additional 9,560 shares during 
the period. Finally, Sei Investments Co. boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 30.6% in the third 
quarter. Sei Investments Co. now owns 63,255 shares of the company's stock worth $4,746,000 after buying an 
additional 14,811 shares during the period. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 42.80% of the company's 
stock.  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) opened at 86.30 on Thursday. The stock has a market cap of 
$21.29 billion, a PE ratio of 15.76 and a beta of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $66.09 and a 52 
week high of $89.67. The stock's 50 day moving average is $82.86 and its 200 day moving average is $80.82.  
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair 
Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point 
routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various 
ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.Get a free 
copy of the Zacks research report on Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)[3] For more information about research 
offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com[4] Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - 
Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for 
Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter[5]. [ 1]:       
  
 
 
 
http://www.zacks.com/ultimate/?adid=AMERBMN_CONTENT_ZER 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=zrmodule...D=AMERBMN_CONTENT_ZER...p_rpt_name_check=s
kip_rpt_name_check...YAAY [ 4]:            http://www.zacks.com/ [ 5]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-
email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: April 13, 2017
End of Document
Brokerages Anticipate Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) to Announce $0.24 Earnings Per Share
Brokerages Anticipate Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) to Announce $0.24 
Earnings Per Share
American Banking and Market News
April 13, 2017 Thursday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 748 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Brokerages expect that Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) will post earnings of 
$0.24 per share for the current quarter, according to            Zacks Investment Research. Zero analysts have 
provided estimates for Ryanair Holdings plc's earnings. Ryanair Holdings plc reported earnings of $0.25 per share 
during the same quarter last year, which indicates a negative year over year growth rate of 4%. The company is 
scheduled to issue its next quarterly earnings report  on Monday, May 22nd. 
According to Zacks, analysts expect that Ryanair Holdings plc will report full-year earnings of $5.67 per share for 
the current financial year, with EPS estimates ranging from $5.56 to $5.78. For the next year, analysts expect that 
the firm will report earnings of $5.97 per share, with EPS estimates ranging from $5.56 to $6.38. Zacks' EPS 
calculations are a mean average based on a survey of sell-side analysts that cover Ryanair Holdings plc. 
Several equities analysts have issued reports on RYAAY shares. Deutsche Bank AG raised shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Monday, February 13th. Bank of America Corp 
downgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "neutral" rating to an "underperform" rating in a report on 
Tuesday, January 3rd. Zacks Investment Research upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "sell" rating to 
a "hold" rating in a research report on Friday, February 10th. Canaccord Genuity assumed coverage on shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Thursday, January 26th. They issued a "buy" rating for the company. 
Finally, Kepler Capital Markets cut shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research 
report on Friday, February 10th. Two investment analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, four have issued  a 
hold rating and six have issued  a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock currently has an average rating of 
"Hold" and an average price target of $93.00. 
Large investors have recently modified their holdings of the stock. Ameriprise Financial Inc. boosted its stake in 
shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc by 8.3% in the third quarter. Ameriprise Financial Inc. now owns 1,214,073 shares 
of the company's stock worth $91,050,000 after buying an additional 93,349 shares during the period.  BlackRock 
Group LTD boosted its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.9% in the third quarter. BlackRock Group LTD 
now owns 119,815 shares of the company's stock worth $8,990,000 after buying an additional 2,200 shares during 
the period.  Teachers Advisors LLC boosted its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc by 3.0% in the third quarter. 
Teachers Advisors LLC now owns 59,532 shares of the company's stock worth $4,467,000 after buying an 
additional 1,742 shares during the period.  BlackRock Fund Advisors boosted its stake in shares of  Ryanair 
Holdings plc by 1.5% in the third quarter. BlackRock Fund Advisors now owns 661,722 shares of the company's 
Brokerages Anticipate Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) to Announce $0.24 Earnings Per Share
stock worth $49,649,000 after buying an additional 9,560 shares during the period.  Finally, Sei Investments Co. 
boosted its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc by 30.6% in the third quarter. Sei Investments Co. now owns 
63,255 shares of the company's stock worth $4,746,000 after buying an additional 14,811 shares during the period. 
Institutional investors and hedge funds own  42.80% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) opened at 86.30 on Thursday. The stock has a market cap of $21.29 
billion, a PE ratio of 15.76 and a beta of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $66.09 and a 52 week 
high of $89.67. The stock's 50 day moving average is $82.86 and its 200 day moving average is $80.82.  
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Get a free copy of the Zacks research report on Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
For more information about research offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com
Load-Date: June 20, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches massive Easter sale
Ryanair launches massive Easter sale
Business World (Digest)
April 13, 2017 Thursday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 179 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair have announced a massive Easter sale with seats on over 900 routes on sale from just €19.99 across its 
European network. 
Millions of customers will fly Ryanair this Easter with the most popular destinations being Barcelona, Faro, Krakow 
and Rome, as more and more families and couples choose to escape to the sun on the lowest fares.    These 
amazing Easter fares are available now for travel in April and May but must be booked before midnight Tuesday (18 
Apr) and can only be found on the Ryanair.com website.    Ryanair’s Chief Marketing Officer, Robin Kiely says, 
"Ryanair customers are hopping off across Europe for the Easter break and it’s not too late to book a low fare 
getaway with our Easter specials. We are releasing seats for sale from just €19.99 across over 900 routes for travel 
in April and May, which are available for booking until midnight Tuesday (18 Apr). Since these amazing low fares 
will be snapped up quickly, customers should get cracking, log onto www.ryanair.com and be a clever bunny this 
Easter.”    Source:            www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: May 11, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Lowered to 'Sell' at Zacks Investment Research
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Lowered to 'Sell' at Zacks Investment 
Research
Watchlist News
April 12, 2017 Wednesday 4:26 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 830 words
Byline: Micah Haroldson
Body
Apr 12, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)             
http://www.watchlistnews.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgZacks Investment Research downgraded shares 
of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) from a hold rating to a sell rating in a report issued on Tuesday 
morning.  According to Zacks, 'Ryanair operates an ultra-low cost, scheduled airline serving short-haul, point-to-
point routes largely in Europe from its bases in airports across Europe. 
The company offers over 1,600 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving airports largely throughout Europe, with 
a principal fleet of Boeing 737-800 aircraft. ' RYAAY has been the subject of several other research reports. Bank of 
America Corp downgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from a neutral rating to an underperform rating in a report on 
Tuesday, January 3rd. Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a hold rating to a buy rating in a 
research report on Monday, February 13th. Canaccord Genuity started coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a 
research report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a buy rating on the stock. Barclays PLC reaffirmed a buy 
rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Tuesday, January 10th. Finally, Kepler Capital 
Markets cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a buy rating to a hold rating in a research report on Friday, February 10th. 
Two research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, four have given a hold rating and six have issued a 
buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings plc currently has an average rating of Hold and an average 
target price of $93.00.  Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded down 1.03% on Tuesday, 
hitting $86.86. 103,786 shares of the stock were exchanged. The firm's 50 day moving average price is $82.76 and 
its 200 day moving average price is $80.78. The firm has a market cap of $21.43 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 
15.86 and a beta of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $66.09 and a one year high of $89.67.  
http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-lowered-to-sell-at-zacks-investment-
research/1191856.html. A number of hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently bought and sold 
shares of RYAAY. Bank of Montreal Can boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 8.8% in the third quarter. 
Bank of Montreal Can now owns 69,980 shares of the company's stock valued at $5,250,000 after buying an 
additional 5,654 shares in the last quarter. 1st Global Advisors Inc. boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 
8.6% in the third quarter. 1st Global Advisors Inc. now owns 5,002 shares of the company's stock valued at 
$375,000 after buying an additional 394 shares in the last quarter. World Asset Management Inc boosted its 
position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 6.6% in the third quarter. World Asset Management Inc now owns 17,045 
shares of the company's stock valued at $1,279,000 after buying an additional 1,050 shares in the last quarter. 
Manning ...pier Advisors LLC boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 2.8% in the third quarter. Manning 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Lowered to 'Sell' at Zacks Investment Research
...pier Advisors LLC now owns 1,938,000 shares of the company's stock valued at $145,406,000 after buying an 
additional 52,262 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Todd Asset Management LLC boosted its position in Ryanair 
Holdings plc by 12.7% in the third quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now owns 331,598 shares of the 
company's stock valued at $24,880,000 after buying an additional 37,461 shares in the last quarter. 42.80% of the 
stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  About Ryanair Holdings plc Ryanair Holdings 
plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, 
scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities 
connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and 
the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.Get a free copy of the Zacks research report on Ryanair 
Holdings plc (RYAAY)[2] For more information about research offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit 
Zacks.com[3] Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a 
concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with 
Analyst 
Ratings 
Network's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=zrmodule...D=AMERBMN_CONTENT_ZER...p_rpt_name_check=s
kip_rpt_name_check...YAAY [ 3]:            http://www.zacks.com/ [ 4]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-
email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: April 12, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Earns Media Impact Rating of 0.31
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Earns Media Impact Rating of 0.31
Watchlist News
April 12, 2017 Wednesday 4:31 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 557 words
Byline: Mark Dietrich
Body
Apr 12, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  News coverage about 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has trended positive this week, according to AlphaOne. The research 
group, a division of Accern, identifies negative and positive media coverage by monitoring more than 20 million 
news and blog sources. AlphaOne ranks coverage of companies on a scale of negative one to one, with scores 
nearest to one being the most favorable. 
Ryanair Holdings plc earned a news sentiment score of 0.31 on AlphaOne's scale. AlphaOne also assigned media 
stories about the company an impact score of 66 out of 100, meaning that recent media coverage is likely to have 
an impact on the company's share price in the near future.  RYAAY has been the topic of several analyst reports. 
Zacks Investment Research raised shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research 
report on Tuesday, December 13th. Bank of America Corp lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'neutral' 
rating to an 'underperform' rating in a research report on Tuesday, January 3rd. Barclays PLC reaffirmed a 'buy' 
rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Tuesday, January 10th. Canaccord Genuity 
initiated coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a 
'buy' rating on the stock. Finally, Kepler Capital Markets lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating 
to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Friday, February 10th. Two research analysts have rated the stock with a 
sell rating, four have issued a hold rating and six have assigned a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock 
currently has an average rating of 'Hold' and an average price target of $93.00. Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded up 2.45% during mid-day trading on Tuesday, reaching $87.76. The company's stock 
had a trading volume of 412,668 shares. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of 
$89.67. The firm's 50 day moving average price is $82.76 and its 200-day moving average price is $80.78. The 
company has a market capitalization of $21.65 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 16.03 and a beta of 0.72.   
http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-earns-media-impact-rating-of-0-31/1190738.html.   About 
Ryanair Holdings plc Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). 
Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services 
and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled 
services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Receive News ...tings 
for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest 
news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Earns Media Impact Rating of 0.31
daily email newsletter[2]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: April 12, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Higher as Miners Gain Traction
European ADRs Edge Higher as Miners Gain Traction
MT Newswires Live Briefs
April 11, 2017 Tuesday 10:52 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 243 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.1% higher at 126.49 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Tuesday morning. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by VEON (VEON), a provider of communications services, 2.3% higher, 
followed by Nabriva Therapeutics (NBRV),  an Austria-based clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, up by 
2.0% and Trivago (TRVG), which operates an online hotel search platform, up by 1.4%. Sanofi (SNY), a French 
healthcare company, was 0.9% higher. 
In the UK, Randgold Resources (GOLD), a gold-mining company, was 3.8% higher, followed by GW 
Pharmaceuticals (GWPH), a biopharmaceutical company, up by 1.8% and Rio Tinto (RIO), a mining company, 
1.6% higher. Ryanair (RYAAY), a low-cost airline, was up by 1.5%. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Cellectis (CLLS), a French genome engineering company, down by 
2.2%, followed by STMicroelectronics - New York Shares (STM), an Italian semiconductor company, 1.8% lower, 
followed by Edap (EDAP), a French medical devices developer, and Forward Pharma (FWP), a Danish 
biopharmaceutical company, both down by 1.6%.
And, in the UK, Akari Therapeutics (AKTX), a development-stage biopharmaceutical company, was 4.6% lower, 
followed by Luxfer (LXFR), a materials technology company, down by 1.8% and Avadel (AVDL), a specialty 
pharmaceutical company, 1.2% lower. Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) was 0.7% lower. 
Price: 3.96, Change: +0.09, Percent Change: +2.33
Load-Date: April 12, 2017
European ADRs Edge Higher as Miners Gain Traction
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Earns Media Impact Rating of 0.31
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Earns Media Impact Rating of 0.31
American Banking and Market News
April 11, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 458 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo News coverage about Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has trended positive this 
week, according to AlphaOne. The research group, a division of Accern, identifies negative and positive media 
coverage by monitoring more than 20 million news and blog sources. AlphaOne ranks coverage of companies on a 
scale of negative one to one, with scores nearest to one being the most favorable. Ryanair Holdings plc earned a 
news sentiment score of 0.31 on AlphaOne's scale. AlphaOne also assigned media stories about the company an 
impact score of 66 out of 100, meaning that recent media coverage is likely to have an impact on the company's 
share price in the near future.  
RYAAY has been the topic of several analyst reports. Zacks Investment Research raised shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a "sell" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Tuesday, December 13th. Bank of America 
Corp lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "neutral" rating to an "underperform" rating in a research report 
on Tuesday, January 3rd. Barclays PLC  reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research 
report on Tuesday, January 10th. Canaccord Genuity initiated coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a 
research report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a "buy" rating on the stock. Finally, Kepler Capital Markets 
lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research report on Friday, 
February 10th. Two research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, four have issued  a hold rating and six 
have assigned  a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock currently has an average rating of "Hold" and an 
average price target of $93.00. 
Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) traded up 2.45% during mid-day trading on Tuesday, reaching 
$87.76. The company's stock had a trading volume of 412,668 shares. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of 
$66.09 and a 1-year high of $89.67. The firm's 50 day moving average price is $82.76 and its 200-day moving 
average price is $80.78. The company has a market capitalization of $21.65 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 
16.03 and a beta of 0.72.  
  
About Ryanair Holdings plc
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Earns Media Impact Rating of 0.31
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Load-Date: June 20, 2017
End of Document
Zacks Investment Research Lowers Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) to Sell
Zacks Investment Research Lowers Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) to Sell
American Banking and Market News
April 11, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 682 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logoRyanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by Zacks Investment 
Research from a "hold" rating to a "sell" rating in a report issued on Tuesday.  
According to Zacks, "Ryanair operates an ultra-low cost, scheduled airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes 
largely in Europe from its bases in airports across Europe. The company offers over 1,600 scheduled short-haul 
flights per day serving airports largely throughout Europe, with a principal fleet of Boeing 737-800 aircraft.   " 
A number of other research analysts have also issued reports on the stock. Deutsche Bank AG raised shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Monday, February 13th. Bank of 
America Corp lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "neutral" rating to an "underperform" rating in a 
research note on Tuesday, January 3rd. Canaccord Genuity initiated coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in 
a research note on Thursday, January 26th. They set a "buy" rating for the company. Kepler Capital Markets 
lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a research note on Friday, February 
10th. Finally, Barclays PLC  reissued a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on 
Tuesday, January 10th. Two equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, four have given a 
hold rating and six have given a buy rating to the stock. Ryanair Holdings plc  has a consensus rating of "Hold" and 
a consensus target price of $93.00. 
Analyst Recommendations for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) opened at 85.66 on Tuesday. The stock has a 50 day moving 
average of $82.62 and a 200 day moving average of $80.68. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $66.09 
and a 52-week high of $89.67. The firm has a market capitalization of $21.14 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 
15.65 and a beta of 0.72.  
Several hedge funds have recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. Bank of Montreal Can increased its 
stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 8.8% in the third quarter. Bank of Montreal Can now owns 69,980 shares of the 
company's stock worth $5,250,000 after buying an additional 5,654 shares during the period.  1st Global Advisors 
Inc. increased its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 8.6% in the third quarter. 1st Global Advisors Inc. now owns 
5,002 shares of the company's stock worth $375,000 after buying an additional 394 shares during the period.  
World Asset Management Inc increased its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 6.6% in the third quarter. World Asset 
Management Inc now owns 17,045 shares of the company's stock worth $1,279,000 after buying an additional 
1,050 shares during the period.  Manning & Napier Advisors LLC increased its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 
Zacks Investment Research Lowers Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) to Sell
2.8% in the third quarter. Manning & Napier Advisors LLC now owns 1,938,000 shares of the company's stock 
worth $145,406,000 after buying an additional 52,262 shares during the period.  Finally, Todd Asset Management 
LLC increased its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc by 12.7% in the third quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now 
owns 331,598 shares of the company's stock worth $24,880,000 after buying an additional 37,461 shares during 
the period. Institutional investors own  42.80% of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair Holdings plc
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Get a free copy of the Zacks research report on Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
For more information about research offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com
Load-Date: June 20, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair worried bylack of direction in Brexit negotiations Carrier looking at worst-case scenarios for UK's exit 
from EU, including shareholdings and operator r....
Ryanair worried bylack of direction in Brexit negotiations; Carrier looking at 
worst-case scenarios for UK's exit from EU, including shareholdings and 
operator requirements
Flight International
April 11, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: THIS WEEK
Length: 232 words
Body
Ryanair has acknowledged that it might have to adjust its shareholding structure to comply with revised ownership 
rules once the UK formally separates from the EU.
Some 40% of the Irish carrier is owned by US interests, says chief financial officer Neil Sorahan, and another 20% 
by British shareholders.
While that complies with requirements that EU entities hold the majority of the carrier, Brexit potentially upsets this 
balance.
“It’s something that may have to be dealt with,” Sorahan said during a briefing in London on 6 April, but he does not 
expect difficulties in resolving the issue.
He acknowledges, however, that the ownership issue is one of several areas of uncertainty for the airline. Ryanair 
expects to begin looking at measures such as UK air operator’s certificate requirements within the next year, to 
prepare for any unfavourable outcome from UK-EU negotiations.
Sorahan is not reassured by the initial signals on the negotiations. “We need somebody to take control of the 
process,” he says.
The best result would be continued UK membership of the current European open skies partnership. Sorahan says 
a failed negotiation and adoption of a World Trade Organisation structure would be the worst.
He stresses that, while there is no immediate threat to air traffic, “someone has to point out the stark realities of 
what might happen” in the event of a failure to reach an agreement.
Ryanair worried bylack of direction in Brexit negotiations Carrier looking at worst-case scenarios for UK's exit 
from EU, including shareholdings and operator r....
Load-Date: April 12, 2017
End of Document
'Proactive' data initiative targets improved safety
'Proactive' data initiative targets improved safety
Flight International
April 11, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AIR TRANSPORT
Length: 181 words
Body
Five airlines, as well as Airbus and Boeing, are among aerospace organisations which have signed up as partners 
to a new European safety data initiative.
The Data4Safety programme is a co-operative effort established by the European Aviation Safety Agency. It aims to 
assist the transition from a “reactive” approach to safety, based on accident and incident reports, to a “proactive” 
analysis of trends and risks.
EASA says the programme will use risk-based oversight to provide better guidance in finding areas where safety 
needs addressing, and will also search for precursors in order to prevent accidents from happening.
The agency undertook a study two years ago to test the technical feasibility and consult stakeholders on their 
readiness to share data. It envisioned a proof-of-concept phase followed by full deployment around 2019.
The initial Data4Safety carrier partners include British Airways, EasyJet, Iberia, Lufthansa and Ryanair, while the 
initiative is also being backed by the European Cockpit Association and regulatory authorities from France, Ireland, 
Spain and the UK.
Load-Date: April 12, 2017
End of Document
FutureScope to help 300 Irish entrepreneurs with collaboration opportunities
FutureScope to help 300 Irish entrepreneurs with collaboration opportunities
Business World (Digest)
April 10, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 487 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
It was announced today that more than 1,200 members of the start-up, scale-up, multinational, researcher and 
investor community will attend this year’s FutureScope to discuss evolving trends and how they will shape the 
future world, providing crucial insights for developing businesses and investors. 
Start-ups will be given the chance to meet and discuss collaboration opportunities with representatives from some 
of the biggest global enterprises.      Futurescope is Ireland’s only conference that promotes collaboration between 
entrepreneurs and large enterprises and runs over a 12-hour period on 10th May.    For a second year running, the 
event will feature more than 90 speakers and panellists promoting engagement and collaboration between Ireland’s 
entrepreneurial community and more established big-name organisations.    Many of the tech multinationals with a 
presence in Ireland are confirmed to present on the FutureScope mainstage including Mastercard, Microsoft and 
Google. 
It will also feature local industry leaders such as Paddy Power Betfair, Fire, Science Foundation Ireland (SFI) and 
Genomics Medicine Ireland which recently received $40m million in a Series A funding round. 
Slack, the fastest-scaling company on the planet after being valued at $2 billion following two years of operation, 
will share its growth story while US-based DAQRI will offer its insights into its vison of the virtual and augmented 
reality future.     Away from the mainstage, FutureScope will also feature a dedicated Collaboration Stage which will 
showcase some of the best partnerships in Ireland and how they work. Those taking part will include SFI, Dublin 
City Council, Google, Ryanair, The CONNECT Centre, Enterprise Ireland and Vodafone.   As part of FutureScope, 
Dublin BIC is looking to find Ireland’s Most Scalable Idea. One entrepreneur or start-up will be crowned 
FutureScope One2Watch 2017, winning a package of start-up supports including the opportunity to pitch a business 
idea to an audience of more than 1,200 on the FutureScope mainstage, a desk at the Guinness Enterprise Centre 
FutureScope to help 300 Irish entrepreneurs with collaboration opportunities
(GEC), investor-ready preparation from Dublin BIC and €2,000 in cash. Submissions are in and the four finalists will 
be announced mid-April.   FutureScope will also welcome businesses and entrepreneurs to Pitch to Ryanair. Those 
pitching will imagine what they would do if they had Ryanair’s customer base and its resources.    CEO at Dublin 
BIC, Michael Culligan said, "We created FutureScope because we saw the need for a conference of international 
scale and ambition but with an Irish focus. Collaboration can be a real driving force for growth for young tech 
companies and a great way to access innovation for more established companies. FutureScope presents real and 
significant opportunities for genuine collaboration between start-ups, scale-ups and more established companies.”   
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: April 23, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Receives Consensus Rating of "Hold" from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives Consensus Rating of "Hold" from 
Analysts
American Banking and Market News
April 10, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 597 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has been assigned an average 
recommendation of "Hold" from the twelve brokerages that are currently  covering the stock. One analyst  has rated 
the stock with a sell rating, five have issued  a hold rating and six have issued  a buy rating on  the company. The 
average 12-month price objective among brokers that have issued ratings on the stock in the last year is $90.00.  
A number of equities research analysts have recently weighed in on RYAAY shares. Bank of America Corp 
downgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "neutral" rating to an "underperform" rating in a research note 
on Tuesday, January 3rd. Canaccord Genuity started coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research 
note on Thursday, January 26th. They issued a "buy" rating on the stock. Deutsche Bank AG upgraded shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Monday, February 13th. Zacks 
Investment Research downgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "strong-buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a 
research note on Friday, January 6th. Finally, Barclays PLC  restated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings 
plc in a research note on Tuesday, January 10th.  
Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) traded down 0.19% on Monday, reaching $85.66. 130,184 
shares of the company were exchanged. The company's 50-day moving average price is $82.62 and its 200 day 
moving average price is $80.68. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $66.09 and a 12 month high of $89.67.  
Hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently modified their holdings of the stock. Cavalier 
Investments LLC raised its position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.2% in the fourth quarter. Cavalier 
Investments LLC now owns 3,867 shares of the company's stock worth $322,000 after buying an additional 44 
shares during the period.  Freestone Capital Holdings LLC raised its position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc by 
1.1% in the fourth quarter. Freestone Capital Holdings LLC now owns 4,982 shares of the company's stock worth 
$415,000 after buying an additional 53 shares during the period.  Timber Hill LLC raised its position in shares of  
Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.7% in the third quarter. Timber Hill LLC now owns 6,048 shares of the company's stock 
worth $454,000 after buying an additional 100 shares during the period.  Castleark Management LLC raised its 
position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc by 18.0% in the fourth quarter. Castleark Management LLC now owns 
2,095 shares of the company's stock worth $174,000 after buying an additional 320 shares during the period.  
Finally, 1st Global Advisors Inc. raised its position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc by 8.6% in the third quarter. 
1st Global Advisors Inc. now owns 5,002 shares of the company's stock worth $375,000 after buying an additional 
394 shares during the period. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  42.80% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Receives Consensus Rating of "Hold" from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Load-Date: June 20, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair to offer flight transfers in bid for wider appeal
Ryanair to offer flight transfers in bid for wider appeal
Business World (Digest)
April 07, 2017 Friday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 401 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair will start offering connecting flights later this month, a senior executive said on Thursday, marking a break 
from its traditional point-to-point model as it looks to appeal to a broader spread of customers.
The Irish airline rose to become Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers by running a bare-bones operation 
shunning transfers due to their complexity and the risk they would keep planes on the ground for too long.
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary dropped his opposition in 2015 and said the airline would look to trial transfers as 
part of plans to expand beyond its traditional customer base.
Ryanair will roll out connections, initially between its own flights, at the end of April at Rome's Fiumicino Airport, 
Chief Marketing Officer Kenny Jacobs said on Thursday. This would allow for example a journey from Dublin to 
Palermo, Sicily, which has no direct service, the company said.
"We'll start with Fiumicino, we'll start at the end of April, then other bases will follow, and this will be something that 
will be available across the network," Jacobs said.
"I think that this is going to be a big advantage given our network, it’ll be a big advantage for Ryanair getting more 
of the business travel market in Europe," he added.
Ryanair did not previously offer transfers for a number of reasons, including concerns that waiting for passengers 
and bags from connecting flights could delay take-offs and undermine the 25-minute turnaround that is key part of 
its business model.
Ryanair to offer flight transfers in bid for wider appeal
It has also balked at the idea of compensating passengers for missed connections and taking responsibility for 
accommodating those waiting for the next available flight.
“It’s going to be a big deal for us," said Jacobs. "It’s a big deal for any low-cost airline, but it’s something that 
customers absolutely will love. It happens today informally through customers just doing their own version of self-
connecting ... but this will allow you to do that direct."
Jacobs said the logistics of flight connections had been worked out, but did not give details. He said integration of IT 
systems was the only thing holding it back from offering connections to other airlines.
In January O'Leary said Ryanair hoped to start offering connections to long-haul flights from Norwegian Air Shuttle 
and Aer Lingus from May, but Jacobs said that was more likely be from September. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: April 21, 2017
End of Document
Friday Papers: Unilever shake-up wins over investors
Friday Papers: Unilever shake-up wins over investors
Citywire
April 7, 2017 Friday 3:50 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 856 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And Norway’s $910 billion oil fund is pushing for a radical overhaul of chief executive pay.
Body
Top stories
•
The Times: Unilever appears to have won over its critics and shareholders with a series of measures to 
transform its business in the wake of a failed £115 billion takeover approach from Kraft Heinz. 
•
Financial Times: Norway’s $910bn oil fund, the world’s largest sovereign wealth fund, is pushing for a 
radical overhaul of chief executive pay, arguing that the long-term incentive schemes favoured by many 
companies are flawed and should be scrapped. 
•
The Times: A former Barclays trader acquitted over playing a part in the Libor-rigging scandal has claimed 
Bank of England officials were told the rate was being inflated years before regulators began their 
investigations. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Households face the end of free banking if the low-growth, low-interest rate 
environment persists, according to the International Monetary Fund. 
•
Financial Times: Hisense, the consumer electronics group, has become the latest Chinese sponsor of the 
football World Cup, providing some respite for Fifa as it struggles to secure new commercial partners in the 
wake of a corruption scandal. 
•
Financial Times: Theresa May has won the backing of key Eurosceptic cabinet colleagues for a softer 
approach to Brexit negotiations after a week in which she has edged closer to a compromise aimed at 
unlocking “a deep and special partnership deal”. 
Business and economics
•
Daily Mail: The Co-operative Group has fallen to a loss for the first time since 2013 after it was forced to 
write down the value of its stake in the Co-operative Bank to zero. 
•
Financial Times: Comcast launched a new mobile telecom operator on Thursday, as the largest cable 
group in the US seeks to boost customer loyalty by offering its subscribers wireless services in addition to 
television, internet and a landline phone. 
•
Financial Times: The new chief executive of NordLB insisted on Thursday that it remained adequately 
capitalised, after huge losses on its shipping loan portfolio drove the German Landesbank to a €1.96 billion 
net loss for 2016. 
Friday Papers: Unilever shake-up wins over investors
•
The Guardian: Mothercare’s chief executive has said the price of its clothing and toys would increase by 3-
5% this summer following the decline in the value of the pound since the Brexit vote. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Booming numbers of customers in the US and several acquisitions have pushed 
HomeServe’s figures to the top end of analyst expectations. 
•
The Guardian: Ryanair has warned it will have to halt flights from the UK for “weeks or months” if Theresa 
May does not seal an early bilateral Brexit deal on international aviation. 
•
Daily Mail: BP chief executive Bob Dudley had his pay cut by 40% as the oil major seeks to stave off 
another shareholder revolt. 
•
Daily Mail: Small suppliers could be more than £20 million out of pocket following the collapse of Agent 
Provocateur. 
•
Financial Times: Facebook plans to pay fact-checkers to monitor news on its platforms in response to 
sustained criticism that it has not been doing enough to crack down on fake stories. 
•
Financial Times: A decision by Allergan to conduct a large clinical trial to determine whether its wrinkle 
smoother Botox can treat depression has left analysts and investors puzzled, after the drugmaker 
published mixed results from a smaller study. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Mike Ashley-backed online and catalogue retailer Findel has filled its chief executive 
seat for the first time since its previous head Roger Siddle stepped down in 2015. 
•
The Times: The European Central Bank has quashed any speculation that it may raise interest rates 
before the end of the year in a series of uncompromising comments. 
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): AVOID Electrocomponents; BUY MP Evans; BUY BTG. 
•
Financial Times: Barrick Gold, the world’s largest producer of the precious metal, has agreed to sell a 50% 
stake in one of its biggest mines to a state-backed Chinese company, Shandong Gold, as part of a wider 
deal aimed at tapping mineral wealth elsewhere in South America. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: British beauty retailer Feelunique has bought The Beautyst, a French company which 
has one of the largest social media followings in the French beauty sector and which sells beauty products 
online. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: North Sea minnow Serica Energy is on the prowl for a North Sea acquisition as its 
cash pile continues to grow. 
•
The Times: The US conglomerate General Electric is looking to sell its consumer lighting division, which 
makes bulbs for lamps and car headlights, as well as fluorescent strip lighting for the home. 
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): End of Co-op Bank, but not of banking at the Co-op. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): 7-Eleven: the big questions around energy partnerships remain. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Economic forecasting: UK’s statisticians should focus on stemming market-sensitive 
leaks of their data. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): European insurance: UFR proposals could affect long-term payouts to 
shareholders. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Taser International: a name change is stupid; the business shift is not. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Unilever: consumer group cannot rely on Buffett and his ilk to stay the hands of 
aggressors. 
Load-Date: April 7, 2017
Friday Papers: Unilever shake-up wins over investors
End of Document
Market Chatter: Ryanair to Steer Growth Away From UK For Next Two Yrs Over Brexit Fears
Market Chatter: Ryanair to Steer Growth Away From UK For Next Two Yrs 
Over Brexit Fears
MT Newswires Live Briefs
April 7, 2017 Friday 11:57 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 116 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) is looking to steer its growth away from the UK over the next two years as the low-cost 
airline fears that a lack of clarity over Brexit negotiations will cause travel disruptions and suppress demand, 
Reuters reported citing finance director Neil Sorahan. 
Sorahan also said that the UK's exit from the European Union will "inevitably" lead to a deceleration in growth in the 
UK and Europe, the report added. 
Previously, Ryanair warned of a "distinct possibility" that there may be no flights between the UK and Europe for a 
time after March 2019 if a special agreement on aviation is not agreed between the UK and Europe. 
Price: 85.48, Change: +0.03, Percent Change: +0.04
Load-Date: April 8, 2017
End of Document
Supasundae looks a sweet bet in Aintree Stayers Hurdle
Supasundae looks a sweet bet in Aintree Stayers Hurdle
City A.M.
April 7, 2017 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 37
Length: 260 words
Body
JESSICA Harrington had a Cheltenham Festival to remember last month with three winners from just a handful of 
runners.
Obviously, Sizing John's success in the Gold Cup was the highlight. But SUPASUNDAE was very impressive in the 
Coral Cup and he can take the step up to Grade One company in his stride tomorrow afternoon.
The Ryanair Stayers Hurdle (4.20pm) was won by Thistlecrack 12 months ago and you can be pretty sure there is 
nothing as good as him in this year's race.
Supasundae has always been wellregarded and he should improve for the step up to three miles.
Don't forget that Whisper managed to complete the Coral Cup-Aintree Stayers Hurdle double three years ago, so 
it's far from impossible to bridge the handicap to Grade One gap.
Yanworth is talented, but ran badly in the Champion Hurdle and isn't a guaranteed stayer. He's also very short at 
just 7/4. Cole Harden will enjoy the decent ground, but everything was right for him at Cheltenham and he couldn't 
get the job done.
My selection is available at 8/1 with Coral which looks a more than fair each-way price.
The Betway Handicap Chase (3.40pm), run over 3m1f, is always a very competitive contest and this year is no 
different.
I'm going to keep it simple and stick with EMERGING FORCE, trained by Harry Whittington.
It's been a difficult season for the young trainer, with his yard suffering a bug, but the horses are in better form now.
Supasundae looks a sweet bet in Aintree Stayers Hurdle
This seven-year-old loves a sound surface and is worth backing at around the 5/1 mark.
POINTERS TOMORROW Emerging Force 3.40pm Aintree Supasundae e/w 4.20pm Aintree
Load-Date: April 7, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair flights to sit on tarmac if Brexit drags
Ryanair flights to sit on tarmac if Brexit drags
City A.M.
April 7, 2017 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 122 words
Byline: SHRUTI TRIPATHI CHOPRA
Body
RYANAIR could halt flights out of the UK "for a period of time" due to Brexit uncertainty hitting demand, the low-cost 
carrier's finance director said yesterday.
"Europe has been very clear in recent days that no deals are going to be put in place, they are not planning to put 
any special deals in place," Ryanair's Neil Sorahan said.
"If there was a cliff-edge scenario with World Trade Organization rules and no bilateral [agreement] on open skies 
in place, there is a distinct possibility that there will be no flights for a period of time between Europe and the UK.
"The impact on business would be disastrous."
Sorahan added that Ryanair aims to pivot its "growth away from the UK" in order to boost business over the next 12 
months.
Load-Date: April 7, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Advance as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
European ADRs Advance as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
April 6, 2017 Thursday 10:52 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 252 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.48% higher at 126.74 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Thursday morning. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were up by TiGenix (TIG), a Belgium-based biopharmaceutical company, up by 
4.8%, followed by Marine Harvest (MHG), a Norwegian seafood company, 3.6% higher and Edap (EDAP),  a 
French medical devices developer, up by 3.2%. Total (TOT),  a French energy operator, was 1.6% higher. 
In the UK, Akari Therapeutics (AKTX), a development-stage biopharmaceutical company, was 31.5% higher, 
followed by Amec Foster Wheeler (AMFW), a global engineering conglomerate, up by 3%, and Ryanair (RYAAY), a 
low-cost airline, up by 1.8%. Avadel (AVDL), a specialty pharmaceutical company, was 1.6% higher. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by DBV Technologies (DBVT), a French clinical-stage biopharmaceutical 
company, 1.8% lower, followed by Natuzzi (NTZ), an Italian furniture manufacturer, down by 1.4% and CGG (CGG),  
a manufacturer of geophysical equipment, down by 1.1%. Nabriva Therapeutics (NBRV), an Austria-based clinical-
stage biopharmaceutical company, was 0.5% lower. 
And, in the UK, WPP (WPPGY), a provider of advertising and marketing services, and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), a 
health care company, were both 0.9% lower, followed by Adaptimmune Therapeutics (ADAP), a clinical-stage 
biopharmaceutical company, down by 0.7% and Vodafone (VOD), a mobile communications company, down by 
0.6%. 
Price: 16.10, Change: +0.78, Percent Change: +5.09
Load-Date: April 7, 2017
European ADRs Advance as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
End of Document
Ryanair to pivot growth away from UK over the next 2 years
Ryanair to pivot growth away from UK over the next 2 years
Business World (Digest)
April 06, 2017 Thursday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 312 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair, Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers, plans to pivot its growth away from Britain over the next 
two years as it fears the lack of clarity over Brexit will cause major travel disruption and hit demand.
Airlines such as Ryanair and rival easyJet have urged the British government to put aviation at the front of the 
queue when negotiating its EU exit because they need to finalize their 2019 summer schedules in the first half of 
next year.
Airlines based in the EU have the right to fly to, from and within any country in the bloc thanks to the single aviation 
market created in the 1990s, meaning Britain has just two years to renegotiate access or come up with an 
alternative system.
"Ryanair is pivoting its growth away from the UK," Finance Director Neil Sorahan told reporters in London, adding 
that the airline had planned to grow by about 15% in the UK last year but had instead posted growth of about 6 
percent.
"Brexit will inevitably lead to a slowdown in growth in the UK. We haven't seen it yet, but we believe it will lead to a 
slowdown in growth in both the UK and the EU, as both parties have to deal with a completely new scenario."
Sorahan added that the growth may slow more sharply as we get closer to the end of the two-year divorce process, 
unless the government can provide greater certainty as to how airlines will be able to operate in the future.
He added that the airline had not yet decided whether it would try to secure a British air operating license, and could 
instead cut its flights within Britain, which account for around 2% of its business. He said a decision would be made 
over the next 12 months.
Ryanair to pivot growth away from UK over the next 2 years
EasyJet has said it is close to applying for a license to set up an operating company within the EU to protect its 
intra-EU flights. Its headquarters and listing will remain in Britain however. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: April 20, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair frets over UK-EU negotiation uncertainties E Ryanair has acknowledged that it might have to adjust its 
shareholding structure to comply with revised own....
Ryanair frets over UK-EU negotiation uncertainties;  E Ryanair has 
acknowledged that it might have to adjust its shareholding structure to 
comply with revised ownership rules once the UK formally separates from 
the European Union.
Flight International
April 6, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 335 words
Body
Ryanair has acknowledged that it might have to adjust its shareholding structure to comply with revised ownership 
rules once the UK formally separates from the European Union.
Some 40% of the Irish carrier is owned by US interests, says chief financial officer Neil Sorahan, and another 20% 
by UK shareholders.
While it currently complies with requirements that EU entities hold the majority of the carrier, the withdrawal of the 
UK from the EU potentially upsets this balance.
"It's something that may have to be dealt with," said Sorahan, speaking during a briefing in London on 6 April.
But he says he is confident that financial institutions will not have difficulty shifting quantities of shares to various 
holdings in order to ensure compliance.
Sorahan says, however, that the ownership issue is one of several areas of uncertainty for the airline regarding the 
UK's exit. There is still no clear indication about the ownership thresholds to be adopted following the withdrawal.
Ryanair is expecting to begin looking at measures such as UK air operator's certificate requirements within the next 
year, to prepare for a possible unfavourable outcome from UK-EU negotiations.
Sorahan is not reassured by the initial signals on the negotiations. "We need somebody to take control of the 
process," he says.
Ryanair frets over UK-EU negotiation uncertainties E Ryanair has acknowledged that it might have to adjust its 
shareholding structure to comply with revised own....
The best result would be continued membership of the 'open skies' partnership in which the UK currently 
participates with Europe. Sorahan says a failed negotiation and adoption of a World Trade Organisation structure 
would be the worst.
He stresses that, while there is no immediate threat to air traffic, there is a "distinct possibility" that flights between 
the UK and Europe would have to be suspended for a period after the negotiation deadline expires in March 2019 – 
adding that airlines have long seasonal lead times and will need to prepare ahead of this date.
"Someone has to point out the stark realities of what might happen," says Sorahan, adding that the issues need to 
be put "front and centre".
Load-Date: April 6, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair unveils 2017/18 customer experience improvement plan
Ryanair unveils 2017/18 customer experience improvement plan
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 6, 2017 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 295 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has unveiled its 2017/18 customer experience improvement plan which forms Year 4 of its 
Always Getting Better, or AGB, programme, including service, digital, ancillary and inflight developments.
Body
The new initiatives to be rolled out over the coming year include: Connecting flights - on Ryanair&#39;s network, 
then on other airlines; Even lower airfares and more of them; New bases (Frankfurt Main, Naples) and improved 
schedules; "My Ryanair" phase II - improved profile, offers and incentives; "Plus" products improved- Regular, Plus, 
Flexi-Plus and Family Plus; Ryanair Holidays rolling out across all markets - 3,4,5 star hotels; Ryanair Rooms - 
more partners and more choice; Amazon of Travel - New search function; Into the Blue - bespoke travel content in 
the app in 5 languages; Express booking - pre-saved preferences for faster bookings (3 clicks); and Auto check-in - 
for both flights once return seats are bookedIn London, Ryanair&#39;s Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said: 
"The success of the "Always Getting Better" programme over the past 3 years has been reflected in ever increasing 
load factors and record passenger numbers, which has seen our traffic grow by over 50%. In a year when Ryanair 
became Europe&#39;s largest airline, carrying 120m customers and Ryanair.com became the world&#39;s most 
visited airline website, we are pleased to launch Year 4 of AGB today, with an exciting range of initiatives in digital, 
product and ancillary."As we expand the Ryanair route network, customers will for the first time be able to book 
connecting Ryanair flights on the Ryanair.com website, with a feeder flight service with other airlines following later 
this year. 
While we continue to innovate, the one thing that won&#39;t change will be our low fares, and European customers 
will still enjoy the biggest and best choice of destinations, with the most on-time flights and a fantastic onboard 
experience, as we grow our fleet, traffic and routes."
Load-Date: April 12, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Rolls Out 4th Edition of Customer Experience Improvement Plan; ADRs Advance Pre-Bell
Ryanair Rolls Out 4th Edition of Customer Experience Improvement Plan; 
ADRs Advance Pre-Bell
MT Newswires Live Briefs
April 6, 2017 Thursday 7:41 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 157 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) unveiled on Thursday the fourth edition of its annual customer experience improvement 
plan, which includes service, digital, ancillary and in-flight developments, according to a company statement. 
Shares climbed more than 1% in pre-market.
The new initiatives to be rolled out over in 2017/18 include "even lower fares and more of them"; new bases in 
Frankfurt Main and Naples and "improved" schedules; more partners in the travel industry to augment choice; and 
pre-saved preferences for express booking.
The carrier claimed traffic has grown by more than 50% over the past three years. 
"In a year when Ryanair became Europe's largest airline, carrying 120 million customers and Ryanair.com became 
the world's most visited airline website," Ryanair said the "Always Getting Better" program offers a range of digital, 
product and ancillary initiatives to improve service.
Price: 85.43, Change: +1.18, Percent Change: +1.40
Load-Date: April 7, 2017
End of Document
Clarification: Ryanair Holdings Up 1.5% - March Traffic Up 10%, Load Factor Unchanged
Clarification: Ryanair Holdings Up 1.5% - March Traffic Up 10%, Load Factor 
Unchanged
MT Newswires Live Briefs
April 6, 2017 Thursday 1:59 PM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 55 words
Body
 (Clarifies the traffic data were released on April 4)
Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) gained 1.5% after the company said on April 4, March traffic grew 10% to 9.4 million 
customers, while load factor remained unchanged at 94%.
Rolling annual traffic to March grew 13% to 120 million customers.
Price: 85.50, Change: +1.25, Percent Change: +1.48
Load-Date: April 7, 2017
End of Document
TOP NEWS: easyJet Follows Peers In Reporting March Passenger Growth
TOP NEWS: easyJet Follows Peers In Reporting March Passenger Growth
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
April 6, 2017 Thursday 2:52 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 156 words
Body
 Low-cost airline easyJet PLC on Thursday reported a year-on-year rise in passengers and load factor in March.
Passengers, as measured by the number of earned seats flown, rose 11% to 6.3 million in March compared to 5.7 
million the year before. Meanwhile, load factor, which represents the number of passengers as a proportion of 
number of seats available, was 92.7%, up 1.4 percentage points from 91.3%.
On a rolling twelve month basis, passengers were up 7.3% to 75.9 million from 70.8 million, and load factor was up 
0.2 percentage point to 91.7% from 91.5%.
This followed rises in passenger traffic and capacity reported on Wednesday by International Consolidated Airlines 
Group PLC, which owns British Airways, Spanish carriers Iberia and Vueling, and Irish airline Aer Lingus. On 
Tuesday, easyJet's budget airline peers Ryanair Holdings PLC and Wizz Air Holdings PLC both also reported a rise 
in passenger numbers year-on-year in March.
Load-Date: April 7, 2017
End of Document
Positive News Coverage Extremely Likely to Impact Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Stock Price
Positive News Coverage Extremely Likely to Impact Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY) Stock Price
American Banking and Market News
April 5, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 502 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings plc logo News articles about Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have been trending positive 
this week, according to AlphaOne Sentiment. The research group, a subsidiary of Accern, ranks the sentiment of 
media coverage by analyzing more than twenty million news and blog sources. AlphaOne ranks coverage of public 
companies on a scale of -1 to 1, with scores nearest to one being the most favorable. Ryanair Holdings plc earned 
a daily sentiment score of 0.46 on AlphaOne's scale. AlphaOne also assigned news stories about Ryanair Holdings 
plc an impact score of 100 out of 100, indicating that recent media coverage is extremely likely to have an effect on 
the stock's share price in the immediate future.  
Several research analysts have commented on the stock. Barclays PLC  reissued a "buy" rating on shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on Tuesday, January 10th. Zacks Investment Research downgraded shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a "strong-buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Friday, January 6th. Kepler Capital 
Markets downgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a "buy" rating to a "hold" rating in a report on Friday, 
February 10th. Canaccord Genuity assumed coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on Thursday, 
January 26th. They issued a "buy" rating for the company. Finally, Bank of America Corp downgraded shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a "neutral" rating to an "underperform" rating in a report on Tuesday, January 3rd. One 
analyst  has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued  a hold rating and six have given a buy rating to the 
company's stock. Ryanair Holdings plc  has a consensus rating of "Hold" and an average price target of $93.00. 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) traded up 1.91% during mid-day trading on Wednesday, hitting $84.17. 
129,406 shares of the stock traded hands. The company has a market cap of $20.77 billion, a P/E ratio of 15.25 
and a beta of 0.72. The company's 50 day moving average is $82.36 and its 200 day moving average is $80.40. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $66.09 and a 12 month high of $89.67.  WARNING: This piece of 
content was  reported by [[site]] and is owned by of [[site]]. If you are viewing this piece of content on 
another site, it was illegally copied and reposted in violation of US and international copyright & trademark 
law. The legal version of this piece of content can be read at [[permalink]]. 
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
Positive News Coverage Extremely Likely to Impact Ryanair Holdings plc ( RYAAY ) Stock Price
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.
Load-Date: June 20, 2017
End of Document
Stocks Remain Mostly Positive In Mid-Day Trading - U.S. Commentary
Stocks Remain Mostly Positive In Mid-Day Trading - U.S. Commentary
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
April 5, 2017 Wednesday 5:57 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 683 words
Body
       WASHINGTON (dpa-AFX) - After showing a strong move to the upside early in the session, stocks remain 
mostly positive in mid-day trading on Wednesday. With the upward move on the day, the tech-heavy Nasdaq 
reached a new record intraday high.  Currently, the major averages remain firmly positive but off their best levels of 
the day. The Dow is up 142.66 points or 0.7 percent at 20,831.90, the Nasdaq is up 27.34 points or 0.5 percent at 
5,925.94 and the S&P 500 is up 13.23 points or 0.6 percent at 2,373.39.  The strength on Wall Street comes 
following the release of a report from payroll processor ADP showing much stronger than expected private sector 
job growth in the month of March. 
 ADP said private sector employment soared by 263,000 jobs in March compared to economist estimates for an 
increase of about 187,000 jobs.  However, the report also said the jump in employment in February was 
downwardly revised to 245,000 jobs from the previously reported 298,000 jobs.  'Job growth is off to a strong start 
in 2017,' said Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Analytics. 'The gains are broad based but most notable in the 
goods producing side of the economy including construction, manufacturing and mining.'  The release of the report 
from ADP comes two days before the release of the Labor Department's more closely watched monthly jobs report, 
which includes both public and private sector jobs.  The Labor Department report is expected to show an increase 
of about 180,000 jobs in March, while the unemployment rate is expected to hold at 4.7 percent.  Meanwhile, 
traders have largely shrugged off a separate report from the Institute for Supply Management showing that service 
sector growth slowed by more than expected in March.  The ISM said its non-manufacturing index dropped to 55.2 
in March from 57.6 in February, although a reading above 50 indicates continued growth in the service sector. 
Economists had expected the index to edged down to 57.0.  The bigger than expected pullback by the index came 
after it reached its highest level since October of 2015 in the previous month.  Later in the day, trading may be 
impacted by reaction to the minutes of the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy meeting.  The Fed decided to 
raise interest rates by a quarter point at the meeting in mid-March, and traders are likely to analyze the minutes for 
clues about future rate hikes.  Sector News  Despite the upward move by the broader markets, many of the major 
sectors continue to show only modest moves on the day.  Airline stocks have shown a strong move to the upside, 
however, with the NYSE Arca Airline Index climbing by 1.3 percent. Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) and American 
Airlines (AAL) are turning in two of the sector's best performances.  Significant strength also remains visible among 
Stocks Remain Mostly Positive In Mid-Day Trading - U.S. Commentary
oil service stocks, although the Philadelphia Oil Service Index has pulled back well off its highs. After reaching its 
best intraday level in a month, the index is up by 1.3 percent.  The strength among oil service stocks comes as the 
price of crude oil has pulled back well off its best levels but is currently modestly higher.  Crude oil for May delivery 
is up $0.13 at $51.16 a barrel after climbing as high as $51.88 a barrel. The price of oil pulled back following the 
release of a report showing an unexpected weekly increase in crude oil inventories.  Other Markets  In overseas 
trading, stock markets across the Asia-Pacific region moved mostly higher during trading on Wednesday. Japan's 
Nikkei 225 Index rose by 0.3 percent, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index climbed by 0.6 percent.  Meanwhile, the 
major European markets turned in a mixed performance on the day. While the U.K.'s FTSE 100 Index inched up by 
0.1 percent, the French CAC 40 Index edged down by 0.2 percent and the German DAX Index fell by 0.5 percent.  
In the bond market, treasuries have climbed well off their worst levels but continue to see modest weakness. As a 
result, the yield on the benchmark ten-year note, which moves opposite of its price, is up by 1.4 basis points at 
2.364 percent.      
Load-Date: April 5, 2017
End of Document
Stocks Remain Mostly Positive In Mid-Day Trading - U.S. Commentary
Stocks Remain Mostly Positive In Mid-Day Trading - U.S. Commentary
RTT News (United States)
April 5, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 689 words
Body
(RTTNews) - After showing a strong move to the upside early in the session, stocks remain mostly positive in mid-
day trading on Wednesday. With the upward move on the day, the tech-heavy Nasdaq reached a new record 
intraday high.
Currently, the major averages remain firmly positive but off their best levels of the day. The Dow is up 142.66 points 
or 0.7 percent at 20,831.90, the Nasdaq is up 27.34 points or 0.5 percent at 5,925.94 and the S&P 500 is up 13.23 
points or 0.6 percent at 2,373.39.
The strength on Wall Street comes following the release of a report from payroll processor ADP showing much 
stronger than expected private sector job growth in the month of March.
ADP said private sector employment soared by 263,000 jobs in March compared to economist estimates for an 
increase of about 187,000 jobs.
However, the report also said the jump in employment in February was downwardly revised to 245,000 jobs from 
the previously reported 298,000 jobs.
"Job growth is off to a strong start in 2017," said Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Analytics. "The gains are 
broad based but most notable in the goods producing side of the economy including construction, manufacturing 
and mining."
The release of the report from ADP comes two days before the release of the Labor Department's more closely 
watched monthly jobs report, which includes both public and private sector jobs.
The Labor Department report is expected to show an increase of about 180,000 jobs in March, while the 
unemployment rate is expected to hold at 4.7 percent.
Meanwhile, traders have largely shrugged off a separate report from the Institute for Supply Management showing 
that service sector growth slowed by more than expected in March.
The ISM said its non-manufacturing index dropped to 55.2 in March from 57.6 in February, although a reading 
above 50 indicates continued growth in the service sector. Economists had expected the index to edged down to 
57.0.
Stocks Remain Mostly Positive In Mid-Day Trading - U.S. Commentary
The bigger than expected pullback by the index came after it reached its highest level since October of 2015 in the 
previous month.
Later in the day, trading may be impacted by reaction to the minutes of the Federal Reserve's latest monetary 
policy meeting.
The Fed decided to raise interest rates by a quarter point at the meeting in mid-March, and traders are likely to 
analyze the minutes for clues about future rate hikes.
Sector News
Despite the upward move by the broader markets, many of the major sectors continue to show only modest moves 
on the day.
Airline stocks have shown a strong move to the upside, however, with the NYSE Arca Airline Index climbing by 1.3 
percent. Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) and American Airlines (AAL) are turning in two of the sector's best 
performances.
Significant strength also remains visible among oil service stocks, although the Philadelphia Oil Service Index has 
pulled back well off its highs. After reaching its best intraday level in a month, the index is up by 1.3 percent.
The strength among oil service stocks comes as the price of crude oil has pulled back well off its best levels but is 
currently modestly higher.
Crude oil for May delivery is up $0.13 at $51.16 a barrel after climbing as high as $51.88 a barrel. The price of oil 
pulled back following the release of a report showing an unexpected weekly increase in crude oil inventories.
Other Markets
In overseas trading, stock markets across the Asia-Pacific region moved mostly higher during trading on 
Wednesday. Japan's Nikkei 225 Index rose by 0.3 percent, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index climbed by 0.6 
percent.
Meanwhile, the major European markets turned in a mixed performance on the day. While the U.K.'s FTSE 100 
Index inched up by 0.1 percent, the French CAC 40 Index edged down by 0.2 percent and the German DAX Index 
fell by 0.5 percent.
In the bond market, treasuries have climbed well off their worst levels but continue to see modest weakness. As a 
result, the yield on the benchmark ten-year note, which moves opposite of its price, is up by 1.4 basis points at 
2.364 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2017 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: April 5, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches new Glasgow Prestwick route to Rzeszow as part of winter 2017 schedule
Ryanair launches new Glasgow Prestwick route to Rzeszow as part of winter 
2017 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 5, 2017 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 386 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched a new Glasgow Prestwick route to Rzeszow as part of its winter 2017 schedule, 
with a twice weekly service starting in October, which will help deliver over 675,000 customers p.a. at Glasgow 
Prestwick Airport.
Body
Ryanair&#39;s Glasgow Prestwick winter 2017 schedule will deliver: 1 new route to Rzeszow (2 x weekly); 10 
routes in total (including Alicante, Lanzarote & Tenerife) and Over 675,000 customers p.a. (+4%).This new Glasgow 
Prestwick route comes in the wake of the Scottish Finance Committee backing the Scottish Government&#39;s 
commitment to halve APD in Scotland. Ryanair again called on the Scottish Government to go even further and 
follow the Irish example by scrapping APD entirely to allow Scottish traffic, tourism and jobs to continue to grow and 
ensure Scottish airports can compete and attract more business.Ryanair&#39;s Robin Kiely said: "We are pleased 
to add a new Rzeszow route to our Glasgow Prestwick winter 2017 schedule, which will operate twice weekly from 
October. Our Glasgow Prestwick winter 2017 schedule also includes popular winter sun routes to Alicante, 
Lanzarote and Tenerife, with 10 routes in total, which will deliver over 675,000 customers p.a. at Glasgow Prestwick 
Airport.We welcome the Scottish Parliament Finance Committee&#39;s support for the Government&#39;s plan to 
halve APD, and we call on the Government to fully abolish APD, which would enable Ryanair to base more aircraft 
in Scotland, add even more routes and create thousands of jobs. 
Fares on our new Rzeszow route are on sale now from just GBP29.99 for travel in October and November, which 
are available on the Ryanair.com website until Thursday (6 Apr). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped 
up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and book a low fare break from Glasgow Prestwick."Ron 
Smith, CEO of Glasgow Prestwick Airport, said: "We&#39;re delighted to be bringing back direct connections from 
Glasgow Prestwick Airport to Poland for winter 2017/18. We have a significant amount of experience in serving the 
passengers who would use this route to visit friends and family, for business travel or who are looking for a city 
break with a difference. This will be the only route available in Scotland over the winter months to South East 
Poland. Our excellent transport connections including direct motorway access, low cost car parking and rail access 
Ryanair launches new Glasgow Prestwick route to Rzeszow as part of winter 2017 schedule
straight to the terminal building make our airport, and this route, an affordable, convenient and enjoyable way to 
experience Eastern Europe."
Load-Date: April 11, 2017
End of Document
Why David Robinson has the luck of the Irish
Why David Robinson has the luck of the Irish
Citywire
April 5, 2017 Wednesday 8:01 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 960 words
Byline: Dalvinder Kular
Highlight: Citywire AAA-rated manager reveals the domestic success story taking off.
Body
The fourth largest country exposure in David Robinson’s Melchior European Opportunities  fund is Ireland at 10.1%. 
His Irish holdings were hit hard after Britain voted to leave the European Union, as the UK is Ireland’s biggest 
trading partner.
‘Clearly if the UK sneezes, Ireland catches a chill. But I felt at the time that the market reaction to a number of 
stocks in Ireland was overdone because there is quite a strong internal dynamic in Ireland. We estimate that for 
every 1% reduction of UK GDP it would knock off 0.3% in Ireland,’ the AAA-rated manager says.
‘Not insignificant, but manageable in the context of an economy that is growing at 4-5%. We thought that was an 
opportunity, and, certainly in the period since Brexit, the Irish economy has continued to grow and the fundamentals 
still look fairly robust.’
Robinson says his interest in the country is down to the many good companies located there, which dovetail with 
his bottomup strategy. In addition, its low taxes, pro-business environment and young English-speaking population 
has attracted global household names such as Google.
‘We have overweighted the Irish market for a number of years and during that period, the country has generated the 
best economic growth in Europe. Ireland embraced reform fairly early as it was hit very badly in the downturn.
‘It went through a period of reorganisation and deflation and has emerged as more competitive. It is an open 
economy that has really benefited by being an attractive destination for foreign investment,’ he says.
Flying ahead
Robinson says there are many good companies in Ireland that are doing better than their competitors. Strong 
management ensures that they grow and generate profit. He highlights budget airline Ryanair as an example of a 
domestic success story.
‘It is a very well-managed airline. If you take out fuel, its operating costs are 50% below EasyJet. What that means 
is that no one can come close to it in terms of pricing and yield – it is able to offer cheaper fares and make a better 
Why David Robinson has the luck of the Irish
return. Ryanair can continue to grow market share in the European short-haul market by generating a huge amount 
of cash,’ he says.
However, Robinson hasn’t dropped his guard completely. Ireland’s GDP fell by around 18% in the wake of the 2008 
financial crisis and while it is recovering well, and the manager is still cautious despite seeing signs of recovery, 
particularly with companies focused on the country itself.
‘Irish GDP has recovered along with investment, but consumer confidence and consumption has only really 
improved in the last 18 months. You now have a situation where unemployment is falling, wages are rising, and 
income taxes are reducing as the government refines its approach.
‘There are a number of favourable dynamics. However, a lot of the domestic parts of the economy have not 
recovered yet, so we remain positive on Ireland and towards companies that are exposed to construction and 
consumption generally.’
European outlook
Away from Ireland, France is the second-largest exposure in the fund at 13.1%. In contrast to his counterparts in 
European equities, Robinson is underweight Germany and Switzerland. The manager stresses that this is part of 
his bottom-up stock selection method.
The fund has a 10.5% allocation to Germany, compared with the MSCI Europe benchmark of 14.7%, along with just 
6.4% in Switzerland compared with the benchmark’s 13.7%.
‘Our current underweight on Germany and Switzerland is not really a call on those markets, it just happens to reflect 
the opportunities at the moment. Nevertheless, there are some outstanding German companies which meet our 
criteria.
‘Equally, there are some amazing businesses in Switzerland but the market has been dominated by some big 
defensive businesses like healthcare and we happen to be underweight that sector,’ he says.
Robinson has only 8.6% of the fund focused on the healthcare sector, compared with the benchmark’s 12.8% and 
again stresses that his bottom-up stock selection method means he does not place sector bets.
Odds on volatility
Political events can move markets, but Robinson believes their effect is over blown. The manager is not betting on 
certain countries or sectors for upcoming European elections.
‘Politics can be unpredictable but its impact on the economy can be hard to gauge. It is too early to say what the 
impact of Brexit will be on the UK, but there is no doubt that so far its economy has held up remarkably well, better 
than virtually every economist would have had you believe.’
He adds that the sell-off in the market as a result of the US presidential election only lasted a few hours before it 
reverted to normal. He doubts that right wing candidate Marine Le Pen will win the French elections due to the 
structure of the country’s voting system. But he does think her victory would cause the most chaos of all the 
upcoming elections.
‘I’m not going to make political risk and political events central to my portfolio construction in 2017. But I am mindful 
of risk, and Europe’s big election schedule ahead.
‘Over the last eight or nine years a huge amount has happened economically, politically and financially and in ways 
that most people wouldn’t have predicted. As an investor there is always a temptation to look through the crystal 
ball but the world is inherently unpredictable, it always has been,’ he says.
Why David Robinson has the luck of the Irish
‘One thing I have learnt as an investor is one should be reasonable, humble and aware of the limitations of trying to 
predict what is going to happen. However, at the same time you should recognise that good well-managed 
businesses can cope with different environments. Capitalism is quite flexible – businesses do adjust.’
This article originally appeared in the February edition of Citywire Selector magazine.
Load-Date: April 5, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair expands into the mainstream But low-cost carrier's increasing use of primary airports does not signal 
an end to strategy of growth at secondary sites
Ryanair expands into the mainstream; But low-cost carrier's increasing use 
of primary airports does not signal an end to strategy of growth at 
secondary sites
Flight International
April 4, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS FOCUS
Length: 579 words
Body
Ryanair on 28 March made its most eye-catching move yet into more mainstream markets, starting to operate at 
Lufthansa’s Frankfurt fortress – but its interest in bigger hubs does not necessarily signal that it is turning its back 
on secondary airports.
London Stansted and Dublin may be its biggest airports, but FlightGlobal schedules data for March shows 
Bergamo’s Orio al Serio – sometimes called Milan’s third airport – is Ryanair’s third biggest in terms of seat 
capacity.
Bergamo, northeast of Milan, was Ryanair’s first Italian base when it was established in 2003, and the Irish carrier’s 
third in continental Europe after Hahn and Charleroi. All three symbolised not just Ryanair’s pan-European 
ambitions, but its model of serving big cities through out-of-town airports: Charleroi for Brussels and Hahn for 
Frankfurt.
Ryanair’s launch of services this summer from Frankfurt Main airport means it now serves primary airports in all 
three of those cities. But in each case, its still has a larger operation at the alternative airport than the primary one, 
and not just because it has been active at these airports for longer.
Bergamo illustrates this. Ryanair began serving Milan Malpensa in December 2015, and quickly grew to serve nine 
destinations from the airport. FlightGlobal schedules data shows it will offer 800,000 seats from Malpensa this year. 
But growth at Bergamo continued at the same time. After a hiatus in aircraft deliveries, expansion at the airport 
resumed when Ryanair’s new batch of 737-800s started arriving in late 2014. It will offer nearly 5.8 million seats 
from Bergamo across 2017, FlightGlobal schedules show – an increase of almost a million from two years ago.
Although Ryanair’s growth at Charleroi has been outstripped by its expansion at Brussels’ primary airport since 
2014, the former is still clearly the larger operation: in 2017 the carrier will offer respective totals of 3.5 million and 
1.6 million seats, FlightGlobal schedules data shows.
Ryanair expands into the mainstream But low-cost carrier's increasing use of primary airports does not signal 
an end to strategy of growth at secondary sites
It is too early to say what the launch of operations out of Frankfurt Main may mean for Ryanair’s Hahn operations. 
While it has been growing its German presence, it has halved seat capacity at Hahn since 2010, making cuts in 
2011 after implementation of a German aviation tax.
spreading network
Ryanair last year disclosed plans for a base at Frankfurt’s primary airport, initially with leisure routes. It will expand 
its operation this winter by basing seven aircraft at the hub and spreading the network to 20 destinations, including 
five in Italy and seven in Spain and the Canary Islands.
“I would have said Frankfurt Main was the next airport [after Heathrow and Paris Charles de Gaulle] where we 
would never have a base, yet we are opening a base there,” Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary told 
FlightGlobal earlier this year. “They have room, no slot constraints, and they’ve come up with an incentive 
programme for low-cost carriers because they want a low-cost business at Frankfurt Main.”
Where Ryanair serves two airports from the same city, excluding London, it tends to have a distinct route strategy 
for each. For example, its flights from Rome’s secondary Ciampino airport have focussed on northern European 
routes, while its operation at the Italian capital’s main international gateway, Fiumicino, largely serves domestic and 
southern European leisure destinations.
Irish airline has received an average of 25 737-800s every year since taking its first delivery in 1999
Boeing
Load-Date: April 6, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches flights for Leinster's Rugby Semi-Final
Ryanair launches flights for Leinster's Rugby Semi-Final
Business World (Digest)
April 04, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 142 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
It was announced today that Ryanair has launched special return flights between Dublin and Lyon for Leinster’s 
European Rugby Champions Cup Semi-Final against Clermont Auvergne following huge demand from fans.    
Ryanair’s rugby specials will depart from Dublin on Saturday 22nd April at 07:10hrs and return from Lyon on 
Sunday 23rd April at 22:00hrs.
Speaking today, Ryanair’s Chief Marketing Officer, Robin Kiely said, "We’ve launched special rugby flights for 
Leinster v Clermont Auvergne after huge demand from Leinster fans. Our specials depart Dublin on Saturday 22nd 
April at 07.10hrs and return from Lyon on Sunday 23rd April at 22.00hrs, ensuring even more rugby fans can cheer 
on Leinster. These rugby specials are on sale now so Leinster fans should book today on www.ryanair.com to 
ensure they don’t miss out."
Source:www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: April 13, 2017
End of Document
Soaring fleet size explains why it is not a question of either/or
Soaring fleet size explains why it is not a question of either/or
Flight International
April 4, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS FOCUS
Length: 156 words
Body
On 21 March Ryanair hit yet another milestone in its relationship with the Boeing 737-800, with the Irish low-cost 
carrier taking delivery of its 450th example.
That figure has been reached in less than two decades, the airline having taken an average of 25 of the Boeing 
narrowbodies each year since 1999.
Ryanair has operated an all-Boeing fleet since 1994 and its current outstanding orders for 80 737-800s and 100 
Max 200s will allow it to increase its fleet to 585 aircraft by 2024, it says.
To reach that total, it will have grown its 737-800 fleet by 42 to 383 aircraft over the course of its financial year 
ending 31 March, and will add 44 aircraft in its 2018 financial year. It is this impressive rate of expansion that is the 
backdrop to all of Ryanair’s capacity and network decisions over the past couple of years – and for the foreseeable 
future.
As a result, it is not necessarily facing either/or decisions on where to grow.
Load-Date: April 6, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair March passenger traffic up 10%
Ryanair March passenger traffic up 10%
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
April 4, 2017 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 98 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has reported that passenger traffic for the month of March 2017 was 9.4 million, an 
increase of 10%, compared to 8.5 million for March 2016.
Body
Load Factor for the month of March 2017 was 94% compared to 94% for March 2016.Ryanair&#39;s Kenny Jacobs 
said: "Ryanair&#39;s March traffic grew by 10% to 9.4m customers, while our load factor was unchanged (despite 
the absence of Easter) from last year at 94%, on the back of lower fares and the continuing success of our "Always 
Getting Better" customer experience programme. Our rolling annual traffic reached 120m. March traffic was also 
impacted by the cancellation of over 530 flights due to repeated ATC and some handling strikes, which cut our 
traffic by approx. 100,000 customers."
Load-Date: April 10, 2017
End of Document
Irish business dynasties: Taking stock of success
Irish business dynasties: Taking stock of success
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1644 words
Byline: Michael Murray
Highlight: Several Irish stock market companies are global leaders. But their success has been overshadowed by 
the decline of the banking sector and the indifferent performance of companies led by family dynasties
Body
It is easy to lose perspective when corporations that are demonstrably Irish in brand and in market position – and 
that were once perceived as bluechips – come crumbling down.
But in a small country, the risks of corporate governance being weak, perspectives being inward looking, and 
nepotism or small-mindedness being prevalent are high. That, however, shouldn’t cloud the extraordinary success 
of some of our stock market-listed companies that are European or world leaders in their sector, and headquartered 
in, run and led from Ireland.
Yes, our entire banking sector, which once dominated the Iseq, saw over 90 per cent of its value wiped out. The 
fact that the most exalted of them, Anglo Irish, became the most disgraced undermined confidence in our system of 
corporate governance.
And yes, a seemingly iconic family empire - as personified by bits of the O’Reilly clan - fell to the ground, as 
Waterford Wedgwood, whose brand was once renowned worldwide, went bust, and the same family member-led 
Independent News & Media empire was reduced to ‘penny share’ status.
The top class public relations machine that was at the disposal of O’Reilly kept the image so well polished for so 
long that when the outposts collapsed or were acquired for cents confidence in Irish corporate/family business 
dynasties took a hit.
Several of the non-family led companies that were relatively low key in their public relations and personalised image 
management could afford to let their numbers speak for themselves having come through the past 40 years to 
positions of European, and in some cases world, leadership in their chosen industries or niches.
I count six Irish-listed companies in this category. Several more are demonstrating their potential to progressively 
move into it.
Irish business dynasties: Taking stock of success
Perhaps the most remarkable success story – because it was achieved from a later starting point than all of the 
others – has been one that probably every reader has been a customer of over the year, Ryanair.
Starting with the initial step by the late Tony Ryan of a single route from Waterford to London in 1984, the low-cost 
carrier commenced operations under the Ryanair brand in 1985.
Within a decade it was carrying 2.25 million passengers per annum. But since the deregulation of the airline 
industry in 1997, the company has gone from strength to strength.
It now serves 34 countries across Europe, Africa and the Middle East, and is by far the biggest low-fares pan-
European airline, outstripping all of its quoted rivals.
Today, despite being 60 years younger, in stock market value terms Ryanair is 1.5 times bigger than the 
International Consolidated Airlines Group, the global operator that took over the sleepy and sclerotic Aer Lingus.
As to its size relative to the other quoted low-cost European airlines - Easyjet and Wizair – Ryanair’s market 
capitalisation of €17.6 billion is nine times greater than that of Wizair and nearly four times more valuable than 
Easyjet.
This is a fantastic example as to how a no-nonsense leadership team – Tony Ryan followed by Michael O’Leary – 
have built up a world class business with clear market leadership over all of its rivals from a standing start of 
nothing three decades ago.
The good news is that despite appearances perhaps to the contrary, Ryanair is no one-man band.
O’Leary will be a loss when he comes to step down from the top job, but he has in Neil Sorohan as chief financial 
officer who appears cut from the same cloth as himself. And if you watch their investor relations presentations 
together you will see exactly what I mean.
A second major success story has been our native gambling business Paddy Power, founded back in 1988 through 
the merger of 40 bookies shops. It has now, with the takeover of Betfair, risen to a position where its market value 
at €8.4 billion is almost double the combined market values of Britain’s two long-established publicly quoted 
bookies, Ladbrokes and William Hill.
Its innovative, imaginative and provocative advertising, its expansion from conventional betting on horses and 
sports through bookies shops and on course to broadened betting choices and channels – with online sports 
betting, as well as online bingo, poker, casino games and spread betting having combined to make the company 
what it is today - 20 times more valuable than what it was a decade and a half ago.
Its provocative advertising and the controversy it sometimes created has also been an economic way of getting a 
huge marketing ‘bang’ for its ‘buck’:
The recent death of Bishop Eamon Casey reminds me of Paddy Power’s well-publicised decision many years ago 
to pull a proposed advertisement captioned “Paddy Power: The Father of All Bookies’’ at the time of the 
announcement of the birth of the now late Bishop’s child!
The publication of the decision to pull the advertisement was in itself a free brand builder for the company, while at 
the same time pleasing the remaining Catholic congregations who are not all averse to the odd flutter - or sexual 
misdemeanour.
But in a global sense, perhaps the two most spectacular successes of our indigenous headquartered companies 
have been the Tralee-based Kerry Group and Cavan-based Kingspan. Over 30 years, Kerry Group has gone from 
local cooperative to a global leader in ingredients and flavours.
Irish business dynasties: Taking stock of success
Now with a market capitalisation of over €13 billion, the company has no peer in Europe in terms of the scale and 
breadth of its ingredient and flavour offerings and this business now dwarfs the company’s more conventional food 
business.
Operational excellence, a healthy, focused and well embedded corporate culture, strong strategic management, 
focus on the value of science and innovation, top class professional, scientific and other graduate recruitment and 
development programmes and world class expertise in acquisitions have combined to propel the ingredient and 
flavours group to the global market leadership position it enjoys today in terms of its scale, scope and reach.
In building products, Kingspan – in its specialist insulation boards and panels - is a global leader with a market 
presence spanning the US and Canada, Latin America, Europe, the Indian Ocean, Turkey, the Middle East, South 
and Central Asia, Australasia, the Far East and Africa.
In that sense, this Cavan-headquartered company is undoubtedly the most global of our plcs and has played with 
great success into the modern insulation opportunities presented by regulatory requirements for insulation and 
other aspects of building specification and design.
Although its market value is just over €5 billion, it has increased more than fourfold over the past five years and 
looks well set for further advance as regulatory trends offer good structural growth opportunities in many of its 
markets.
While CRH’s presence is less global than Kingspan’s, its scale and diversity in aggregates and building materials 
and depth and presence across the United States and Europe gives it a stock market value of €27 billion, making it 
double the size in value terms of any other indigenous Irish-listed industrial company.
Meanwhile, our banks - once the biggest companies on the Irish market – have been demoted to ‘penny share’ 
status (AIB is listed with a similar market capitalisation to CRH, but 99 per cent of that is capital injected by the 
taxpayer under duress to keep it afloat).
Aside from that, all of our major banks – before the financial crisis – had disastrous acquisition forays which 
destroyed shareholder value, especially in the United States.
Although a dull and boring business, I cannot leave out the best performing share in my portfolio DCC, now a clear 
leader in energy distribution across Europe with its share price rising more than fourfold over the past five years.
Apart from a combination of operational excellence, outstanding management, well chosen niches and a disciplined 
approach to achieving returns on capital employed, what CRH, DCC, Kingspan and Kerry Group all have in 
common is their deep due diligence processes prior to what have been serially successful acquisitions.
They seek to ensure they do not overpay, and that they can extract costs and boost operating efficiencies and 
synergies, and do not compromise their return on capital criteria.
Virtually all of their acquisitions have been value accretive over the medium term and well integrated to generate 
the necessary savings and cross sales opportunities.
By contrast, our banking sector - when in acquisition mode – failed more often than it succeeded and has since 
disposed of almost everything it ever acquired – Maryland, Citizens Bank, Bristol & West and more.
The good news is that - banking aside – below our tier of acquisitive leaders are rapidly growing smaller players 
who look to have real promise given their success with bolt-on acquisitions to date.
The two in my own portfolio include UDG Healthcare, which has transitioned from an almost sole focus on 
distribution to higher value added healthcare support and services businesses whose structural growth 
characteristics are strong. UDG’s share price has more than quadrupled since it departed from its “distribution only” 
platform.
Irish business dynasties: Taking stock of success
The other, Greencore, with its focus on food-to-go and acquisition programme, has shown good results to date, 
albeit with the jury remaining out on the recent acquisition of Peacock Foods in the US and the impact of Brexit on 
its British supply chain and labour market.
Other businesses I am keeping my eye on for possible future investment are the Dermot Desmond-led Datalex and 
Northern Ireland’s First Derivatives – topics to return to.
Meanwhile, we can count ourselves lucky to have so many opportunities to invest in Irish-headquartered companies 
with the depth of expertise, proven track records and robust business models that have propelled such tremendous 
growth in the past and look well set to do so into the future.
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
The week in business
The week in business
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1034 words
Byline: Róisín Burke
Highlight: A look behind the stories with Róisín Burke
Body
Our Cheltenham pundits and Boylesports gallop home with two grand for charity 
It was hard to make money at this year’s Cheltenham Festival, developer and shrewd judge of horseflesh Michael 
O’Flynn tells me.
Thankfully, the link up between The Sunday Business Post and Boylesports for our annual charity betting proved 
successful.
O’Flynn played a big role – his tip galloped strongly to victory in the Mares Novices’ Hurdle. Let’s Dance gave Willie 
Mullins and Ruby Walsh an incredible fourth win on that one day, and gave us a €200 win for charity.
[caption id="attachment_383004" align="alignnone" width="300"] Michael O’Flynn[/caption]
But our biggest win came from James Osborne’s selection. The Ryanair director backed Cheltenham Gold Cup 
victor Sizing John, landing us €900 in the process.
Trained by veteran Cheltenham winner Jessica Harrington, who boasts names like Moscow Flyer, Jezki and Space 
Trucker to her credit, Osborne rightly bet that Sizing John would match his Lexus Chase Leopardstown win.
To sweeten our winnings pot a little more, Boylesports is not only giving a money back guarantee on each winning 
€100 stake, it is also generously paying out on an each way basis as well.
That means that Cardinal Capital co-founder Nigel McDermott’s pick, Petit Mouchoir – a horse from Michael 
O’Leary’s Gigginstown stables that placed third in the Champion Hurdle – has raked us in a stonking €700 for our 
charity punt.
[caption id="attachment_383003" align="alignnone" width="300"] James Osborne[/caption]
The week in business
And former Kerry Group boss and Horse Racing Ireland chairman Denis Brosnan, who named the heavily backed 
Unowhatimeanharry in the Stayers’ Hurdle (which came third) made €190 for us.
So, totting up and rounding up a little we’re at €2,000, and Boylesports will write a big cheque for the Peter McVerry 
Trust, the charity helping to tackle homelessness.
Other big names who kindly saddled up to give us their favourites ahead of Cheltenham were PayPal boss Louise 
Phelan, Minister for Social Protection Leo Varadkar, H&K International founder and racehorse owner David 
Bobbett, Glanbia chief Siobhan Talbot, One51 boss Alan Walsh, Tammy O’Brien of Tattersalls, and Boylesports 
founder John Boyle. Many thanks to one and all.
 Dermot Desmond racks up another honour 
I hear that congratulations are in order for billionaire Dermot Desmond, who is due to add yet another gong to his 
collection.
He’s among those to be awarded by Michigan State University later this year with an honorary Doctorate of 
Humanities, along with former baseball star Kirk Gibson and Ford Foundation president Darren Walker.
The university has partnered with Respect, the disabilities charity that Desmond has chaired since 1995, on 
research to improve the understanding of intellectual disability and autism.
Desmond has received honours in the past from Trinity College, University College Dublin, Queen’s University and 
the University of Massachusetts Medical School.
 Johnny Ronan’s mighty wind investment 
[caption id="attachment_383005" align="aligncenter" width="1024"] The Village at Lyons: reduced losses[/caption]
Now that energy minister Denis Naughten has promised to introduce a price subsidy for offshore wind farms, 
among the many developers who will be rubbing their hands is one Johnny Ronan, better known for property than 
tilting at windmills.
JR and family are shareholders in Hazelshore Ltd, which is in turn a shareholder in Codling Holdings, a joint venture 
with Norwegian utility Fred Olsen.
The Codling Wind Park has an estimated value of €3 billion, meaning that the Hazelshore stake could be worth a 
pretty penny to Ronan and other shareholders, which include the former top civil servant Paddy Teahon and 
Ronan’s one-time development partner in Treasury Holdings, Richard Barrett.
As recently as last year, the company seemed to have given up the ghost on Codling in the absence of a subsidy.
But a filing on the lobbying database shows that the lads weren’t sitting back. None other than former Fine Gael 
hotshot Frank Flannery was talking to former energy minister Pat Rabbitte about the project on behalf of 
Hazelshore (which used a Ronan Group Real Estate email for the filing) in late 2015. All that work may now set free 
a cash windfall, it seems.
 HWBC Six Nations pundit glory goes to Finance Ireland 
As memory fades of last weekend’s win over England, bragging rights in property agency HWBC’s Six Nations 
Armchair Pundit competition are still being argued over.
High rankers included CHQ boss Mervyn Greene, Tilman Brewin Dolphin stock picker Ray Tilson, and Green Reit’s 
director of asset management Ronan Webster.
The overall winner, from among more than 200 participants, was David Gavin from Billy Kane’s Finance Ireland 
Group, who will enjoy a luxury weekend away in London.
The week in business
While we are too kind to name the bottom performers, it would be fair to say that those in the more ‘Italian-
flavoured’ end of the league table included TWM director Sean O’Neill, and Ocean Capital’s Paul McGowan.
 O’Callaghan’s Lyons lessens losses 
In the year prior to its being taken over by education entrepreneur and hotel owner Barry O’Callaghan, the Village at 
Lyons substantially reduced its losses, new filings show.
Formerly owned by aviation legend Tony Ryan’s family, the 16-acre Kildare resort estate sold for around €6 million 
to Arkle Ltd last year. Ryan’s son Declan was owed €3.38 million, the accounts say. A further €1.3 million due to 
Ryan in relation to a property lease was written off after the sale, and the Ryan family were owed a further €3.13 
million, which was also written off.
Renamed the Cliff at Lyons as a companion property to O’Callaghan’s Cliff Hotel in Waterford and Cliff Townhouse 
in Dublin, losses stood at €2.8 million in accounts signed off at the end of 2016, down from €7.4 million the previous 
year.
 Tweete of the week 
“The presumption that it is a competition between London and another European centre has a degree of naivety. It’ll 
be between London and New York.”
Richie Boucher of Bank of Ireland gives a rather interesting ‘Brexit bounce’ view to the Financial Times
 Word on the street 
A very senior figure at RTÉ considered resigning over the way forward on cost- cutting
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
Murphy’s Monex pays out €9m dividends and sets IPO timeline
Murphy’s Monex pays out €9m dividends and sets IPO timeline
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 285 words
Byline: Róisín Burke
Highlight: Founder Frank Murphy says stock market float is being explored in next two years
Body
Shareholders of Monex, the Kerry financial technology company specialising in currency conversion, received over 
€9 million in dividends, new filings show.
Founder Frank Murphy said a New York or Ireland stock market float in the next two years was being explored 
following a set of bumper financial results.
New market territory expansion will continue at the company, which exceeded €100 million turnover for the first time 
over 2016, he said.
Fresh company filings show that Monex’s two shareholders, Murphy and chief operations officer Michael Crowley, 
shared €9.32 million in dividends.
Profits after tax came to €7.42 million in 2016, up from €5.66 million the previous year. Turnover increased to €108 
million from €99 million.
“A flotation is absolutely something we will look at in either New York or Ireland in the coming two years,” Murphy 
said. “The figures were so strong we said we’d need to look at it.
“We have been approached [by prospective advisers] and there have been discussions but there is nothing specific 
yet.
“But we are keeping an open mind with bankers and advisers. For now, we’ll keep doing what we’re doing.
“There will be significant new investment in new markets announced during the year and we expect things to be 
strong on that front as well,” Murphy said.
“With profits being so good, we’re going to continue with a strong pipeline.”
Murphy’s Monex pays out €9m dividends and sets IPO timeline
Monex runs the software behind Ryanair’s secure booking system and will partner with more blue chip names in 
coming months, he said.
The business will continue to invest in research and development, particularly in its digital wallet innovation, he said.
Monex provides a rapid currency exchange service in 48 countries worldwide at more than 68,000 ATMs.
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
Shaking up the fintech sector
Shaking up the fintech sector
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 455 words
Byline: Post Reporter
Body
Due to come in next year, PSD2 will bring significant changes to the financial market.
It will allow consumers and businesses to use third-party services to help manage their finances and will see banks 
compete against anyone offering financial services. The regulations will also help improve customer protection and 
data security.
It will introduce two new types of providers. One is AISP (Account Information Service Provider), which provides 
access to bank customers’ account information, while the other is a PISP (Payment Initiation Service Provider) who 
carries out the payment on behalf of the user.
Instead of using traditional banks, the next few years could see you using a specific app or service to pay for goods 
or services or send money to other contacts while still using your bank account. For banks, it means they will be 
obliged to offer these third parties access to their customer accounts through open APIs (Application Program 
Interface).
Among the organisations we spoke to, the attitude is very positive, although there is a healthy degree of caution. 
For Paul Prior, chief innovation officer of FTI Consulting, the risk isn’t just understanding the regulations, but the 
customer as well.
“There is a willingness, particularly in the banking sector, to work with fintech industries, but there is a level of risk 
adversity in terms of ‘Will they understand the customer in five or ten years?’
“The emotional journey point is a really interesting one . . . you think about someone’s journey with car insurance, a 
lot of insurers think it starts when they type in ‘car insurance’ into Google. It’s not. It’s the point where they’re 16 and 
getting their driver’s licence.
“What we find with the clients we work with is they’re starting earlier when identifying the customer experience and 
[looking more at] how they follow up.”
Shaking up the fintech sector
The new regulations offer interesting possibilities, according to Oliver Lynch, business development director of 
Comtrade Digital Services.
“What we think is interesting is you could have other brands that are non-banking brands, say Aer Lingus or 
Ryanair, they decide ‘Okay, listen let’s cut out credit card processing fees’ and reduce them greatly,” he said.
“Companies who have massive brand trust and equity already will be able to be active in the payment processing 
area and greatly reduce the costs of payment processing for their clients.”
Dominic Conlon, the head of corporate at Leman Solicitors, Ireland, believes that all parties – banks, financial 
institutions, fintech companies and customers – will benefit going forward.
“Most companies in the B2C fintech space welcome sensible regulation because it gives a sense of comfort for 
consumers who can say ‘My money is safe’,” he said.
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
Mixing bluechips with younger company shares
Mixing bluechips with younger company shares
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1473 words
Byline: Michael Murray
Highlight: The banking crisis proved that bluechip status is not eternal, but mixing bluechips shares with those of 
well-managed companies is a good way of combining relative security with long-term growth
Body
The word bluechip derives from poker but, according to Wikipedia, a bluechip is a “corporation with a national 
reputation for quality, reliability, and the ability to operate profitably in good times and bad”.
The term bluechip, as defined and attributed to a company, does not mean that it can do no wrong – or even that it 
cannot fail.
Back in the 1990s, AIB and Bank of Ireland were two of Ireland’s top five bluechips by virtue of their scale, financial 
strength, market leadership in their core market, and pricing power in at least some of the banking segments in 
which they operated. So also were the two main Scottish banks in Britain – Bank of Scotland and Royal Bank of 
Scotland (RBS).
But all of these institutions’ bluechip characteristics were not just chipped away, they were destroyed with the onset 
of the banking crisis. They have continued to struggle for worthwhile profitability and capital generation that would 
help to restore dividend flows. So life in the bluechip lane is not eternal.
Ireland as a country can still be proud of the many bluechip companies we do have: CRH in building materials, 
Kerry Group in food ingredients, Ryanair in air travel. All three are market leaders in their field, all three have robust 
balance sheets and cashflows, all three have multinational exposure, and all three have significant sources of 
competitive advantage.
While Ryanair’s brand might not conjure up a bluechip image, the image has – or should have – nothing to do with 
it. It is a market leader in the low-cost air travel industry, it has a balance sheet of unrivalled strength, it has 
operating margins of unrivalled sectoral scale, its brand is associated with efficiency and value, and through share 
buybacks and special dividends, it has returned €2.4 billion to shareholders over the past eight years. That’s why it 
is certainly an excellent fit in the bluechip tent and from the track record to date, shareholders have the confidence 
Mixing bluechips with younger company shares
that Michael O’Leary and his board will not misallocate surplus capital, but return it to shareholders in the absence 
of value-adding opportunities to deploy it in the business.
Achieving and maintaining bluechip status doesn’t necessarily mean delivering sustained earnings growth. It does, 
however, mean being proven capable of delivering sustained dividends through good industry cycles – and bad.
That is why Smurfit, for example, although a leader in its sector, doesn’t qualify for the bluechip badge. It had to 
suspend its dividend payments from 2008 to 2011 due to the cyclical downturn in the market. By contrast, CRH 
continued paying its generous dividend (albeit with no growth) through the vicious downturn in the construction 
industry that paralleled the banking crisis, and has now begun to grow it again.
Shareholders have been rewarded for their patience. Kerry Group, a world leader in ingredients and flavours, is a 
much less cyclical business and it has a 30-year track record of uninterrupted dividend growth (ignoring a special 
dividend 18 years ago).
What bluechips have in common is their strong, global, everyday consumer and functional brands – all highly 
resistant to the disruptive efforts of regulators and recessionary forces
Looking at other sectors internationally, it is not hard to identify the leaders. Mining has traditionally been a highly 
cyclical sector. But there are bluechip miners who by virtue of their diversified hard commodity base and global 
spread have been able to ride through the significant cyclical swings in the mining sector overall and have been 
able to sustain dividend payments through and through.
Rio Tinto is one of the top bluechips in the sector, despite its cyclical earnings profile due to the nature of the 
industry in which it operates. What gives it its bluechip status is its position in the Ftse 100 (insufficient in itself), its 
consistency with dividend payments (although the very occasional cut, such as happened back in 2009 due to a 
savage industry cycle), its geographic and mineral resource diversity and its low costs of production relative to 
peers. These are the characteristics that have enabled the company to sustain profitability and dividends through 
good cycles and bad.
As to bluechips in the retail sector, the landscape has changed utterly. Historically, Tesco would have been 
regarded as a bluechip. But intensifying competition and technological disruption in the retail sector, a costly 
misadventure into the US, and a very high fixed cost base by virtue of its real estate portfolio and the high incidence 
of upward-only rent reviews on standard British and Irish leases on its commercial property stripped the company of 
its bluechip status – despite still being the market leader in food retailing in Britain with close to a 30 per cent share.
Today Amazon is the biggest technological disrupter in retailing and one of the few retailers, along with Walmart, 
that now deserves bluechip status. The sheer scale, technological excellence and cheap warehousing storage has 
propelled it far beyond its big box store competitors burdened with onerous leases on legacy retail property and 
overcapacity in lead markets, hence their squeezed margins and cancelled dividends.
However some retailers, despite having trading difficulties from time to time, have come through without suspending 
dividends, even if there have been modest cuts.
Marks & Spencer, which lost its way for a couple of years around the turn of the century, has since been able to 
trade at levels which have enabled uninterrupted dividend payments with just a short-term cut in the 2009-2010 
period. It is arguably close to bluechip status, but remaining and strengthening its position will be challenging and 
very dependent on top-class management, strategy and investment in online channels and distribution.
In the banking sector, it wasn’t just the Irish banks that lost their bluechip status, many British and European ones 
did too. With the exception of HSBC, which has a global presence and relative defensiveness, it is hard to 
categorise any of the other clearing banks on these islands today as bluechips.
In the property sector, British Land is a company with a trophy commercial property portfolio in Britain that looks to 
be withstanding the Brexit risks well. Its prime office and retail portfolio, soundly structured balance sheet, relatively 
Mixing bluechips with younger company shares
modest level of speculative development and strong dividend paying capacity certainly merits a seat at the bluechip 
table.
Within the consumer goods sector, there is an abundance of companies that qualify for bluechip status, having 
ridden through half a century and more of sustained dividend payments and, if not, no more than one or two short-
term cuts.
To the amazement of many, British American Tobacco has been able to ride through the wave of hostile regulation 
in many developed markets and use its global reach to build new markets and continue to grow strongly in many 
emerging markets. It is now proving its capacity to innovate with healthier nicotine alternatives, so while having 
been written off by many investors decades ago, those who have stuck with it have received handsome rewards. In 
terms of fat dividends, fat dividend growth rates and strong capital appreciation on top, it remains a favourite 
bluechip, as does Imperial Tobacco.
Finally the global consumer brand leaders, such as Coca-Cola, Pepsi, Colgate Palmolive, Procter & Gamble, 
Diageo, Unilever and Reckitt Benckiser all qualify as bluechips.
What they have in common is their strong, global, everyday consumer and functional brands producing everyday 
functional products or addictive alcohol, soft drink and sugar-rich foods – all highly resistant to the disruptive efforts 
of regulators and recessionary forces, thus delivering almost uninterrupted dividend and earnings growth through 
the decades and in many cases, over half a century and more.
Aside from Wikipedia’s top-line definition of what a bluechip is, it elaborates by saying that it is a stock in a 
corporation with a national reputation for quality, reliability and the ability to operate profitably in good times and 
bad. Bluechips generally sell high quality, widely accepted products and services. Bluechip companies are known to 
weather downturns and to operate profitably in the face of adverse economic conditions, which helps to contribute 
to their long record of stable and reliable growth.
All of the above companies have done just that and as an investor seeking a reliable income in retirement, I am 
happy to own shares in ten of them. I believe strongly that mixing bluechip shares with younger company shares 
which are not bluechips, but are well managed, and playing into the structural growth characteristics of specific 
growth markets is the most comfortable way of marrying relative security with decent long-term growth.
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
Of its time: revenues surge at New Relic ’s Dublin office
Of its time: revenues surge at New Relic’s Dublin office
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 515 words
Byline: Patrick Murtagh
Highlight: New Relic is a software monitoring and analytics company to helps businesses understand what is 
happening in the digital sector
Body
Revenues at the Dublin office of the software-as-a-service company New Relic are growing by close to 50 per cent 
year on year, according to the company’s head of SME sales in Ireland and Britain.
“We have a number of large and small companies here that we work with, and we cover a lot of different vertical 
markets,” Glenn Cahill told The Sunday Business Post.
“Whereas markets like finance, gaming or media would have traditionally been tech-savvy, now we’re finding more 
markets like travel or food are becoming more tech-savvy as well.”
New Relic is a software monitoring and analytics company that helps businesses to understand what is happening 
in their digital sector and improve it in order to deliver a more efficient customer experience.
It gathers one billion pieces of data per minute, making it one of the biggest data companies in the world. It then 
presents the data in a format that is easily understood, making improvements and alterations easier.
Last May it announced its fourth-quarter financial highlights, with revenue of $52.5 million, up 57 per cent from 
2015. The company’s fiscal revenue for the same year was $181.3 million, up 64 per cent from 2015.
During that fourth quarter, it also signed up customers including Ryanair, Under Armour, Thomas Cook, LinkedIn 
and Harvard Business Publishing.
“More and more companies are defined by what they do online,” Cahill said.
“The main ones are big brands who offer a purely digital experience, but our play is that there are many more 
markets like this, where the digital market is the most important aspect of the company.”
Of its time: revenues surge at New Relic ’s Dublin office
Cahill described the employment market in Dublin, where New Relic employs 100 staff at its European HQ, as 
“really competitive. But we’ve done pretty well because of the kind of company that we are, and the kind of 
technology that we provide”.
New Relic chose Dublin as its European HQ primarily due to the talent of the Irish workforce, but also because it 
sees Dublin as a tech and innovation hub that is easy to do business in.
As a software-as-a-service company in a fast growing market, specifically in helping people who are moving to 
public cloud, New Relic is trying to position itself as an attractive company to work for in the tech sector. Cahill said 
the company intends to grow its staff numbers in Dublin as it expands.
“We’re a very values driven organisation. We encourage people to be their best selves, and encourage them to 
express themselves and be authentic. We provide them with the facilities to do that and to have a successful career 
in a competitive market,” he said.
“We’re growing in terms of geographic reach, the number of products we sell and also the volume of business that 
we do.”
The firm has gone from selling two products to six in recent years, and is now servicing not only major European 
cities, but also Russia, South Africa and Israel.
“We’re a digital business that reaches into almost every sector. We have thousands of customers, but because it’s 
a technical offering, only the IT folks really know about it. But the impact we have is quite significant,” said Cahill.
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
Stock take: market week
Stock take: market week
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 216 words
Byline: Emma Kennedy
Body
Strong iPhone sales boost Apple’s revenues 
Strong festive sales of the iPhone 7 has seen Apple report its first rise in sales in nine months.
“We’re thrilled to report that our holiday quarter results generated Apple’s highest quarterly revenue ever, and broke 
multiple records along the way.”
Tim Cook, chief executive, Apple
 Ralph Lauren boss to step down in May 
Luxury fashion firm Ralph Lauren has announced that its chief executive Stefan Larsson will leave the company at 
the start of May, after he clashed with the company’s chairman Ralph Lauren.
“Stefan and I share a love and respect for the DNA of this great brand, and we both recognise the need to evolve. 
However, we have found that we have different views on how to evolve the creative and consumer-facing parts of 
the business. After many conversations with one another, and our board of directors, we have agreed to part ways.”
Ralph Lauren
 Passenger traffic takes off at Ryanair 
Airline Ryanair has reported a double digit percentage increase in passenger numbers for January, carrying close 
to nine million customers.
“Ryanair’s January traffic grew by 17 per cent to 8.77 million customers, while our load factor jumped two 
percentage points to 90 per cent, on the back of lower fares.”
Kenny Jacobs, chief marketing officer, Ryanair
Stock take: market week
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
Jane Ruffino: Xenophobic attitudes in the air
Jane Ruffino: Xenophobic attitudes in the air
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 653 words
Byline: Jane Ruffino
Highlight: The laptop in hand luggage ban currently affects nine airlines, and hits business travellers the hardest, 
but what if others follow?
Body
About 15 years ago, I was on a Ryanair flight to Leeds-Bradford. During landing, the ceiling panel above the seat in 
front of me came loose and nearly bonked the head of the man sitting there. I caught the panel, and my seatmate 
clicked it back into place. My seatmate and I rolled our eyes.
He told me he travelled between Leeds and Dublin every week for work, and wow, could he tell me some stories. 
Like the time the airline flipped out over a chainsaw he’d put in the overhead locker, which they discovered because 
it leaked petrol in the cabin. Ryanair was terrible, he said, because they made him check his chainsaw into the hold.
I say this because it’s good to remember that airline travel used to be easy enough that a marginally rational 
commuter could consider a fully gassed-up chainsaw to be reasonable cabin baggage.
Granted, aviation safety standards are many levels above most other industries. And people aren’t that rational. On 
the US Transportation Security Authority’s list of prohibited items, it’s strange that some need mentioning: hand 
grenades, sabres, meat cleavers, bows and arrows, cattle prods.
Others, like classifying jam as a liquid, are a good reminder that the indefinite application of blanket restrictions 
have never been about our safety.
As of last week, passengers from ten airports in the Middle East flying to the US or Britain can’t bring electronic 
devices into the cabin, allegedly due to a terror threat involving a laptop battery.
The news first appeared in Twitter reports that Royal Jordanian wasn’t allowing laptops or tablets in carry-on bags. 
It was later confirmed, expanded, and then copied by Britain, where there will be many more affected.
It currently affects nine airlines, and hits business travellers the hardest, but what if others follow? Will security 
monitor bags so they don’t become targets for thieves? Will they be insured for this?
Jane Ruffino: Xenophobic attitudes in the air
Another important consideration is that lithium ion batteries, the type we have in our laptops and mobile devices, 
have a tendency to burst into flames.
The International Civil Aviation Organisation and the FAA both warn that putting these in the cargo hold can be 
dangerous, especially if the hold contains many lithium ion batteries (or also contains chainsaws).
The fire safety systems aren’t equipped for the spread of that kind of fire. The risk is slight, but the safety advice 
seems in agreement: it’s better to have them in the cabin.
Several media outlets have pointed out the distinct overlap in airlines affected by the device ban and 
‘superconnector’ airlines taking more than full advantage of the Open Skies agreement that allows them to fly 
between countries outside their base.
The largest three – Etihad, Emirates, and Qatar, all of which are owned by their respective governments – are 
accused of being unfairly propped up by state funds.
In case you’re still under the illusion that this is a pure business decision (which would be bad enough), more than 
100 airlines are still at least partly owned by their country’s governments. Finnair, Aeroflot, Air China, and Air New 
Zealand also fly to the US. Etihad even owns 49 per cent of Alitalia.
It’s as easy to default to an argument that state-owned assets are universally bad as it is to assume that it’s racist 
against the business, and not the passengers.
This is the clearest use yet of xenophobic attitudes, crossed with the fiction that we’re individually responsible for 
preventing terrorism, propping up a decision that is both about normalising arguments that only private ownership is 
fair, and about preserving normalised xenophobia for regular use.
It’s a starkly obvious example of the myth of individual responsibility being used, not just to ignore our collective 
safety, but actively undermine it, to benefit an equally obvious group of individuals.
To paraphrase something we said back in the olden days of air travel, check me gently with a chainsaw.
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
In full flight: behind the scenes at Ireland 's Lir Academy
In full flight: behind the scenes at Ireland's Lir Academy
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 2402 words
Byline: Catherine Healy
Highlight: Director Loughlin Deegan says the academy is looking forward to a long run
Body
I’m standing in a windowless corridor, looking through the glass pane of a door. The young man inside seems not to 
notice us peering in. Arms crossed in the small, cave-like space, he sits alone behind a desk, reciting lines. One 
door down, in a larger rehearsal room, students have gathered in a huddle to play out a script. Three playwrights-in-
training occupy another room around the corner, listening intently to their tutor, Graham Whybrow, the former 
literary manager at the Royal Court in London.
At the other side of the building, budding theatre technicians are installing lights in a black box studio. I’m walked 
through workshops noisy with the sound of saws and hammers, as final touches are put to props, stage sets and 
costumes. The scene could be one from any of the world’s great conservatoires, but my tour on this rainy afternoon 
is at the Lir, Ireland’s first national academy for dramatic arts. Launched in 2011 as a partnership between Trinity 
College Dublin and the Cathal Ryan Trust, the centre is housed in a concrete, purpose-built building on the corner 
of Pearse Street and Grand Canal Quay – one you could easily walk past without noticing.
What soon becomes clear on meeting Lir director Loughlin Deegan, a playwright who previously headed up the 
Dublin Theatre Festival, is that his ambition extends far beyond this city and country. The academy’s long-term goal 
is to become a leading international academy, he stresses.
“The genesis of the Lir is one of the cultural good news stories of the crash,” says Deegan, whose bright, airy office 
overlooks the city’s once-derelict Docklands. He and others developed the current training programme with help 
from the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) in London, with which the Lir has a formal association.
The centre’s origin story can be traced back to an unexpected source: a conversation between father and daughter, 
just over a decade ago. Danielle Ryan, then a homesick Rada student, was asked by her dad why she couldn’t 
return home to train in Dublin. Her response, as Deegan tells it, was that that Irish acting courses were simply not 
on a par.
In full flight: behind the scenes at Ireland 's Lir Academy
When Cathal Ryan, the son of late Ryanair founder Tony Ryan, passed away in 2007, leaving millions in his will to 
develop a new Irish academy, Danielle was charged with making that vision a reality.
A year later, as it turned out, a forum involving key figures from the theatre industry – set up after public backlash 
over Trinity’s cancellation of its previous acting degree – recommended that an independent drama school be 
established in Ireland. Through contacts at Rada, Ryan was introduced to a member of that taskforce, Professor 
Brian Singleton, who is now the Lir’s academic director, and plans were quickly hatched.
[caption id="attachment_378187" align="aligncenter" width="1024"] Stage management student Sarah-Jane 
Williams at the Lir Academy[/caption]
On the day I visit, final-year students are busy with last-minute preparations for two public productions. Mojo, a Jez 
Butterworth play directed by Oonagh Murphy, will run until Wednesday, while Caryl Churchill’s The Skriker, directed 
by Tom Creed, closes the following evening. The shows are part of a practice-based programme designed to help 
students secure work after graduation, Deegan says. Lir undergrads, for example, take development classes to 
prepare themselves “mentally and logistically” for a professional career, with lessons aimed at boosting their 
confidence and entrepreneurial skills.
Students are encouraged to create their own work rather than wait for the phone to ring, Deegan tells me. Working 
professionals are among the cast of visiting lecturers, and each student has a headshot and profile on the Lir’s 
website, like an online talent agency. Towards the end of their final academic year, trainee actors also prepare a 
showcase of scenes for public presentation before an audience of agents, casting directors and producers.
That practical focus is what attracted Venetia Bowe, 25, to the three-year acting course. A graduate of Trinity’s 
Department of Drama, she says she wanted a more hands-on training programme than her previous degree. “I 
acted in Players while I was college, but my course was predominantly academic. I knew I wanted to be a 
professional and I felt an instant connection [to the Lir] when I visited for the first time.”
The training provided by the academy, as Bowe describes it, “teaches you how to fully embody a character. You’re 
not just playing another version of yourself – you’re surrendering yourself to this new identity. I think some actors 
can get in the way of themselves – they think they can’t do this or that – but we get the tools here to really serve a 
play and its characters. You end up not having to think about it.”
As for the future, Bowe says she hopes to join other Lir alumni in “straddling the pond” between Ireland and Britain. 
“Self-taping allows actors to be in the room for auditions in London,” she points out. “A lot of recent Lir graduates 
have been able to be seen in London while living here.” But Bowe hopes a recent changing of the guard at the 
Abbey and Gate will also open up new opportunities for young actors and writers. “I imagine the type of work that is 
going to be shown in these houses will change radically over the next few years – the focus won’t just be on Beckett 
and Pinter.”
For pedagogical reasons, however, Lir students are prevented from taking on professional work until after 
graduation. As Deegan puts it: “What we try to create here, particularly in the first and second year before students 
perform publicly, is a trusting environment where people can take risks and fail. Particularly with students who, 
through speech and drama classes, have acquired bad habits, it’s important to start afresh and refocus their 
thinking.
[caption id="attachment_378188" align="aligncenter" width="1024"] Second year BA Acting students at the Lir 
Academy[/caption]
“If a student is extracting themselves from that process and falling back on old habits, it interrupts the training. It’s a 
deep, personal journey that each student goes through. It’s very demanding, physically and emotionally – it’s a 
system that needs to be protected.” Plus, he adds, with classes running up to 40 hours a week, few would have 
time to commit to other productions.
In full flight: behind the scenes at Ireland 's Lir Academy
The hard work seems to have paid off for many alumni, with 87 per cent of all Lir acting graduates represented by 
professional agents in Ireland, Britain and the US, according to figures provided by the academy. Some 95 per cent 
of stage management and technical theatre graduates, meanwhile, are employed in the theatre, TV, film and 
festival industries.
Lir-trained actors have featured in TV series including The Fall and Game of Thrones, while many other graduates 
have worked in leading theatres in Ireland and Britain. Deegan tells me proudly that Cameron Cuffe, who is playing 
the lead role in Krypton, the upcoming Superman prequel, was the first Lir graduate to get Twitter’s blue tick of 
verification. “It was a moment, actually.”
While industry demand is strongest for technical graduates, the Lir’s most competitive course is the bachelor’s 
degree in acting, which typically receives between 300 and 400 applications for 16 places. The admissions process 
involves three stages of auditions, with the first round held at various venues in Dublin, Belfast, London and New 
York.
Ireland has become an increasingly attractive destination for European students following the Brexit vote, according 
to Deegan. “We had a group of ten Swedish friends fly over to audition for us last week,” he says. “They were from 
a foundation school where students would have traditionally gone on to London, but because of Brexit, they’re 
looking elsewhere.”
Another advantage is that the bulk of fees for EU students on undergraduate Lir degrees are paid for by the 
exchequer, making it a more affordable option than competitors in Britain.
So what do assessors look for in applicants? “What we want is just a glimpse of the ability to communicate emotion 
truthfully,” Deegan says. “To allow emotion to live truthfully in your body so that it moves the receiver – that’s how I 
define the talent. We can’t train people to empathise in that way.”
Those with stage school training are not always ideal candidates, he adds. “We get many students who have been 
doing speech and drama exams since they were four, which is often not in their best interests going forward to 
professional training. Some teaching develops a presentational style that isn’t truthful – that’s the opposite of what 
we’re looking for.”
Other courses, such as stage management and technical theatre, require demonstrated experience or ability. New 
York native Johann Fitzpatrick, 22, was two years into a drama degree in Trinity when he made the jump. “The 
main advantage is that it’s almost entirely hands-on work,” he says.
“I had been doing technical theatre work around town and I figured this was the best way to take me up to the next 
level.”
[caption id="attachment_378193" align="aligncenter" width="1024"] Student Simone Collins[/caption]
For the last month, Fitzpatrick and his classmates have been busy making props, sets and costumes for the two 
final-year productions. “I never had much appreciation before for the work that goes into liaising with other teams,” 
he says. “You have to learn how best to work with designers and bring their visions to life, for example. A big part of 
what the Lir does is build up respect between people in different fields,” says Fitzpatrick, who plans next to apply for 
Lir’s MFA in stage design.
A recent appointee to the Arts Council, Deegan is positive about the future for graduates like Bowe and Fitzpatrick. 
“I think the industry as a whole is going to start growing again,” he says, citing increased funding for the sector.
“A lot of the students, technical ones in particular, are already working abroad so they’re not limited to working here 
in any case. There’s a huge amount of export happening naturally.”
That said, one of Deegan’s long-term projects is to identify, through consultation, whether current training 
opportunities match the needs of industry. He says: “I’m in constant conversation with people who talk about the 
In full flight: behind the scenes at Ireland 's Lir Academy
shortage in theatre producers, for example, so we’re now looking at the possibility of bringing in a course in 
producing.”
Another priority is developing the Lir’s commercial arm, including its business partnerships, patron scheme and 
bursary programme. A new corporate training service launched this year, Lir at Work, offers courses in 
presentation, storytelling and personal impact, with all profits going back to the academy. The centre is also in the 
process of recruiting members for a new development council which will help to secure its financial future.
Is there a need, I ask, for increased state investment to supplement commercial income? Deegan shakes his head, 
explaining that the Lir has no qualms about fundraising. “The majority of our full-time courses are supported through 
the Higher Education Authority, through Trinity. I think there’s been a healthy realisation at board level that there is 
an onus on us as an organisation to be entrepreneurial and not be overly reliant on subsidies. I find that refreshing 
and quite exhilarating.”
As part of this development agenda, the Lir hopes to also increase student diversity with an outreach project 
targeting Deis secondary schools in the Dublin area.
“It’s something we can’t be complacent about,” Deegan says. “We don’t want all applications to be coming from 
middle-class kids from middle-class schools. Particularly with acting, the industry needs diversity, because the 
stories we’re telling are about all of humanity.” This year, for instance, the academy’s application form was 
amended to ensure gender was no longer described as a binary option. Eight male and eight female students are 
accepted onto the acting course every year.
The Lir’s long-term strategy will hinge, as Deegan sees it, on adapting to the market and responding to changing 
industry needs.
So will someone else be sitting at the director’s desk, overseeing this academy, in a century’s time? Deegan 
mentions a photobook published in its first year, called The Lir is Forever – a title taken from his introduction. “It is 
holding ourselves to a high standard, but yes, what we want is to develop an institution which is going to be here in 
200, 300 years. It feels like we’re building something that serious.” ■
A fundraising event for the Lir will be held in Dublin’s Trocadero restaurant on May 14. Another event will be held in 
London in April, with details to be confirmed in this magazine. For more information on the academy and to learn 
about the wide range of corporate and individual sponsorship and partnership opportunities, see thelir.ie
 Taking flight 
In its early years, graduate success stories were an exciting novelty at the Lir. “It was like a bell would go off in the 
building when someone was cast,” says director Loughlin Deegan. “People would run into my office to ask if I’d 
heard the latest news.” Now, watching television at home, he sees graduates turn up unexpectedly on BBC and Sky 
dramas. Such accomplishments have become commonplace.
One emerging star is Cameron Cuffe, a Lir acting graduate who was recently cast to play the lead role of Seyg-El in 
upcoming Superman pilot prequel Krypton. The British actor was most recently seen on our screens in ITV period 
drama The Halcyon. His former classmate Lauren Coe, from Dublin, also has a significant role in the series.
Lir-trained Karen McCartney, best known as Garda Alannah Walsh from Fair City, is another upcoming talent. The 
Carlow woman is currently starring in the Gate’s Jacques Brel is Alive and Well and Living in Paris, and before that 
featured in the theatre’s production of The Heiress. Acting graduate Rory Dignam, meanwhile, recently joined the 
Game of Thrones cast for the show’s seventh season.
Other Lir alumni have worked in Irish theatres including the Abbey, Everyman, Bord Gáis Energy Theatre and Lyric, 
as well as the National Opera House in Wexford and Cork Opera House. Graduates from stage management and 
technical theatre have also been employed by RTÉ and TV3. Internationally, graduates have worked in 20 theatres, 
festivals and creative spaces in Britain, New York, Los Angeles, Romania, Finland and Australia.
In full flight: behind the scenes at Ireland 's Lir Academy
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
In full flight: behind the scenes at Ireland 's Lir Academy
In full flight: behind the scenes at Ireland's Lir Academy
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 2402 words
Byline: Catherine Healy
Highlight: Director Loughlin Deegan says the academy is looking forward to a long run
Body
I’m standing in a windowless corridor, looking through the glass pane of a door. The young man inside seems not to 
notice us peering in. Arms crossed in the small, cave-like space, he sits alone behind a desk, reciting lines. One 
door down, in a larger rehearsal room, students have gathered in a huddle to play out a script. Three playwrights-in-
training occupy another room around the corner, listening intently to their tutor, Graham Whybrow, the former 
literary manager at the Royal Court in London.
At the other side of the building, budding theatre technicians are installing lights in a black box studio. I’m walked 
through workshops noisy with the sound of saws and hammers, as final touches are put to props, stage sets and 
costumes. The scene could be one from any of the world’s great conservatoires, but my tour on this rainy afternoon 
is at the Lir, Ireland’s first national academy for dramatic arts. Launched in 2011 as a partnership between Trinity 
College Dublin and the Cathal Ryan Trust, the centre is housed in a concrete, purpose-built building on the corner 
of Pearse Street and Grand Canal Quay – one you could easily walk past without noticing.
What soon becomes clear on meeting Lir director Loughlin Deegan, a playwright who previously headed up the 
Dublin Theatre Festival, is that his ambition extends far beyond this city and country. The academy’s long-term goal 
is to become a leading international academy, he stresses.
“The genesis of the Lir is one of the cultural good news stories of the crash,” says Deegan, whose bright, airy office 
overlooks the city’s once-derelict Docklands. He and others developed the current training programme with help 
from the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) in London, with which the Lir has a formal association.
The centre’s origin story can be traced back to an unexpected source: a conversation between father and daughter, 
just over a decade ago. Danielle Ryan, then a homesick Rada student, was asked by her dad why she couldn’t 
return home to train in Dublin. Her response, as Deegan tells it, was that that Irish acting courses were simply not 
on a par.
In full flight: behind the scenes at Ireland 's Lir Academy
When Cathal Ryan, the son of late Ryanair founder Tony Ryan, passed away in 2007, leaving millions in his will to 
develop a new Irish academy, Danielle was charged with making that vision a reality.
A year later, as it turned out, a forum involving key figures from the theatre industry – set up after public backlash 
over Trinity’s cancellation of its previous acting degree – recommended that an independent drama school be 
established in Ireland. Through contacts at Rada, Ryan was introduced to a member of that taskforce, Professor 
Brian Singleton, who is now the Lir’s academic director, and plans were quickly hatched.
[caption id="attachment_378187" align="aligncenter" width="1024"] Stage management student Sarah-Jane 
Williams at the Lir Academy[/caption]
On the day I visit, final-year students are busy with last-minute preparations for two public productions. Mojo, a Jez 
Butterworth play directed by Oonagh Murphy, will run until Wednesday, while Caryl Churchill’s The Skriker, directed 
by Tom Creed, closes the following evening. The shows are part of a practice-based programme designed to help 
students secure work after graduation, Deegan says. Lir undergrads, for example, take development classes to 
prepare themselves “mentally and logistically” for a professional career, with lessons aimed at boosting their 
confidence and entrepreneurial skills.
Students are encouraged to create their own work rather than wait for the phone to ring, Deegan tells me. Working 
professionals are among the cast of visiting lecturers, and each student has a headshot and profile on the Lir’s 
website, like an online talent agency. Towards the end of their final academic year, trainee actors also prepare a 
showcase of scenes for public presentation before an audience of agents, casting directors and producers.
That practical focus is what attracted Venetia Bowe, 25, to the three-year acting course. A graduate of Trinity’s 
Department of Drama, she says she wanted a more hands-on training programme than her previous degree. “I 
acted in Players while I was college, but my course was predominantly academic. I knew I wanted to be a 
professional and I felt an instant connection [to the Lir] when I visited for the first time.”
The training provided by the academy, as Bowe describes it, “teaches you how to fully embody a character. You’re 
not just playing another version of yourself – you’re surrendering yourself to this new identity. I think some actors 
can get in the way of themselves – they think they can’t do this or that – but we get the tools here to really serve a 
play and its characters. You end up not having to think about it.”
As for the future, Bowe says she hopes to join other Lir alumni in “straddling the pond” between Ireland and Britain. 
“Self-taping allows actors to be in the room for auditions in London,” she points out. “A lot of recent Lir graduates 
have been able to be seen in London while living here.” But Bowe hopes a recent changing of the guard at the 
Abbey and Gate will also open up new opportunities for young actors and writers. “I imagine the type of work that is 
going to be shown in these houses will change radically over the next few years – the focus won’t just be on Beckett 
and Pinter.”
For pedagogical reasons, however, Lir students are prevented from taking on professional work until after 
graduation. As Deegan puts it: “What we try to create here, particularly in the first and second year before students 
perform publicly, is a trusting environment where people can take risks and fail. Particularly with students who, 
through speech and drama classes, have acquired bad habits, it’s important to start afresh and refocus their 
thinking.
[caption id="attachment_378188" align="aligncenter" width="1024"] Second year BA Acting students at the Lir 
Academy[/caption]
“If a student is extracting themselves from that process and falling back on old habits, it interrupts the training. It’s a 
deep, personal journey that each student goes through. It’s very demanding, physically and emotionally – it’s a 
system that needs to be protected.” Plus, he adds, with classes running up to 40 hours a week, few would have 
time to commit to other productions.
In full flight: behind the scenes at Ireland 's Lir Academy
The hard work seems to have paid off for many alumni, with 87 per cent of all Lir acting graduates represented by 
professional agents in Ireland, Britain and the US, according to figures provided by the academy. Some 95 per cent 
of stage management and technical theatre graduates, meanwhile, are employed in the theatre, TV, film and 
festival industries.
Lir-trained actors have featured in TV series including The Fall and Game of Thrones, while many other graduates 
have worked in leading theatres in Ireland and Britain. Deegan tells me proudly that Cameron Cuffe, who is playing 
the lead role in Krypton, the upcoming Superman prequel, was the first Lir graduate to get Twitter’s blue tick of 
verification. “It was a moment, actually.”
While industry demand is strongest for technical graduates, the Lir’s most competitive course is the bachelor’s 
degree in acting, which typically receives between 300 and 400 applications for 16 places. The admissions process 
involves three stages of auditions, with the first round held at various venues in Dublin, Belfast, London and New 
York.
Ireland has become an increasingly attractive destination for European students following the Brexit vote, according 
to Deegan. “We had a group of ten Swedish friends fly over to audition for us last week,” he says. “They were from 
a foundation school where students would have traditionally gone on to London, but because of Brexit, they’re 
looking elsewhere.”
Another advantage is that the bulk of fees for EU students on undergraduate Lir degrees are paid for by the 
exchequer, making it a more affordable option than competitors in Britain.
So what do assessors look for in applicants? “What we want is just a glimpse of the ability to communicate emotion 
truthfully,” Deegan says. “To allow emotion to live truthfully in your body so that it moves the receiver – that’s how I 
define the talent. We can’t train people to empathise in that way.”
Those with stage school training are not always ideal candidates, he adds. “We get many students who have been 
doing speech and drama exams since they were four, which is often not in their best interests going forward to 
professional training. Some teaching develops a presentational style that isn’t truthful – that’s the opposite of what 
we’re looking for.”
Other courses, such as stage management and technical theatre, require demonstrated experience or ability. New 
York native Johann Fitzpatrick, 22, was two years into a drama degree in Trinity when he made the jump. “The 
main advantage is that it’s almost entirely hands-on work,” he says.
“I had been doing technical theatre work around town and I figured this was the best way to take me up to the next 
level.”
[caption id="attachment_378193" align="aligncenter" width="1024"] Student Simone Collins[/caption]
For the last month, Fitzpatrick and his classmates have been busy making props, sets and costumes for the two 
final-year productions. “I never had much appreciation before for the work that goes into liaising with other teams,” 
he says. “You have to learn how best to work with designers and bring their visions to life, for example. A big part of 
what the Lir does is build up respect between people in different fields,” says Fitzpatrick, who plans next to apply for 
Lir’s MFA in stage design.
A recent appointee to the Arts Council, Deegan is positive about the future for graduates like Bowe and Fitzpatrick. 
“I think the industry as a whole is going to start growing again,” he says, citing increased funding for the sector.
“A lot of the students, technical ones in particular, are already working abroad so they’re not limited to working here 
in any case. There’s a huge amount of export happening naturally.”
That said, one of Deegan’s long-term projects is to identify, through consultation, whether current training 
opportunities match the needs of industry. He says: “I’m in constant conversation with people who talk about the 
In full flight: behind the scenes at Ireland 's Lir Academy
shortage in theatre producers, for example, so we’re now looking at the possibility of bringing in a course in 
producing.”
Another priority is developing the Lir’s commercial arm, including its business partnerships, patron scheme and 
bursary programme. A new corporate training service launched this year, Lir at Work, offers courses in 
presentation, storytelling and personal impact, with all profits going back to the academy. The centre is also in the 
process of recruiting members for a new development council which will help to secure its financial future.
Is there a need, I ask, for increased state investment to supplement commercial income? Deegan shakes his head, 
explaining that the Lir has no qualms about fundraising. “The majority of our full-time courses are supported through 
the Higher Education Authority, through Trinity. I think there’s been a healthy realisation at board level that there is 
an onus on us as an organisation to be entrepreneurial and not be overly reliant on subsidies. I find that refreshing 
and quite exhilarating.”
As part of this development agenda, the Lir hopes to also increase student diversity with an outreach project 
targeting Deis secondary schools in the Dublin area.
“It’s something we can’t be complacent about,” Deegan says. “We don’t want all applications to be coming from 
middle-class kids from middle-class schools. Particularly with acting, the industry needs diversity, because the 
stories we’re telling are about all of humanity.” This year, for instance, the academy’s application form was 
amended to ensure gender was no longer described as a binary option. Eight male and eight female students are 
accepted onto the acting course every year.
The Lir’s long-term strategy will hinge, as Deegan sees it, on adapting to the market and responding to changing 
industry needs.
So will someone else be sitting at the director’s desk, overseeing this academy, in a century’s time? Deegan 
mentions a photobook published in its first year, called The Lir is Forever – a title taken from his introduction. “It is 
holding ourselves to a high standard, but yes, what we want is to develop an institution which is going to be here in 
200, 300 years. It feels like we’re building something that serious.” ■
A fundraising event for the Lir will be held in Dublin’s Trocadero restaurant on May 14. Another event will be held in 
London in April, with details to be confirmed in this magazine. For more information on the academy and to learn 
about the wide range of corporate and individual sponsorship and partnership opportunities, see thelir.ie
Taking flight
In its early years, graduate success stories were an exciting novelty at the Lir. “It was like a bell would go off in the 
building when someone was cast,” says director Loughlin Deegan. “People would run into my office to ask if I’d 
heard the latest news.” Now, watching television at home, he sees graduates turn up unexpectedly on BBC and Sky 
dramas. Such accomplishments have become commonplace.
One emerging star is Cameron Cuffe, a Lir acting graduate who was recently cast to play the lead role of Seyg-El in 
upcoming Superman pilot prequel Krypton. The British actor was most recently seen on our screens in ITV period 
drama The Halcyon. His former classmate Lauren Coe, from Dublin, also has a significant role in the series.
Lir-trained Karen McCartney, best known as Garda Alannah Walsh from Fair City, is another upcoming talent. The 
Carlow woman is currently starring in the Gate’s Jacques Brel is Alive and Well and Living in Paris, and before that 
featured in the theatre’s production of The Heiress. Acting graduate Rory Dignam, meanwhile, recently joined the 
Game of Thrones cast for the show’s seventh season.
Other Lir alumni have worked in Irish theatres including the Abbey, Everyman, Bord Gáis Energy Theatre and Lyric, 
as well as the National Opera House in Wexford and Cork Opera House. Graduates from stage management and 
technical theatre have also been employed by RTÉ and TV3. Internationally, graduates have worked in 20 theatres, 
festivals and creative spaces in Britain, New York, Los Angeles, Romania, Finland and Australia.
In full flight: behind the scenes at Ireland 's Lir Academy
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
Havok co-founder Steve Collins joins Frontline
Havok co-founder Steve Collins joins Frontline
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 426 words
Byline: Tom Lyons
Highlight: New €60 million fund makes two investments in Galway and Berlin
Body
Venture capital firm Frontline Ventures, which launched a €60 million new investment fund for business-to-business 
software start-ups last week, has appointed technology veteran Steve Collins as venture partner.
Collins previously co-founded Havok, a cutting-edge physics and animation solution provider to the game industry 
which was sold to Intel for $110 million, before he went on to set up Swrve, a mobile marketing cloud platform.
William McQuillan, Frontline partner, said: “Steve has an enormous wealth of knowledge about building B2B 
companies.” He said Collins also had close links with academic institutions in Ireland and Britain, giving the firm 
access to both deal flow and talent.
“Steve also has a very strong technical background. When we are looking at infrastructure tech or highly technical 
companies, he will allow us to get to decisions quicker,” he added.
Frontline has already made two investments from its new €60 million fund, which follows a previous €50 million 
fund. It has invested for the first time in Berlin into a start-up called Inkitt, a digital library and publishing platform for 
writers and readers.
Will Prendergast, Frontline Partner, said: “They are basically using machine learning to find emerging authors. It is 
going to disrupt the publishing industry.”
He said Frontline had also participated in a €1 million funding round for Siren Solutions in Galway. Siren is a date 
intelligence and visualisation company founded in 2011 by Dr Giovanni Tummarello and Dr Renaud Delbru as a 
spin-off of the work at the National University of Ireland Galway.
McQuillan said Frontline’s second fund would remain committed to investing in Irish and British start-ups but also 
look increasingly at Germany, the Nordics and other European countries. He said the fund was concerned about 
the impact of Brexit and the election of Donald Trump as US president.
Havok co-founder Steve Collins joins Frontline
“What Frontline does is support fast young companies to grow fast,” he said. “Any protectionist policies or closing of 
borders isn’t beneficial to a fast-growing company.
“Anything that affects hiring great talent is not a good thing for business.”
Investors in Frontline’s new fund include Enterprise Ireland, AIB, the Ireland Strategic Investment Fund, the 
European Investment Fund (EIF), and the family of the late Ryanair founder Tony Ryan. Shay Garvey, another 
Frontline partner, said the new fund will typically invest between €200,000 and €3 million and expects to invest in 
over 30 companies.
Frontline last year added former Twitter Europe boss Stephen McIntyre to its team.
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
Havok co-founder Steve Collins joins Frontline
Havok co-founder Steve Collins joins Frontline
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 426 words
Byline: Tom Lyons
Highlight: New €60 million fund makes two investments in Galway and Berlin
Body
Venture capital firm Frontline Ventures, which launched a €60 million new investment fund for business-to-business 
software start-ups last week, has appointed technology veteran Steve Collins as venture partner.
Collins previously co-founded Havok, a cutting-edge physics and animation solution provider to the game industry 
which was sold to Intel for $110 million, before he went on to set up Swrve, a mobile marketing cloud platform.
William McQuillan, Frontline partner, said: “Steve has an enormous wealth of knowledge about building B2B 
companies.” He said Collins also had close links with academic institutions in Ireland and Britain, giving the firm 
access to both deal flow and talent.
“Steve also has a very strong technical background. When we are looking at infrastructure tech or highly technical 
companies, he will allow us to get to decisions quicker,” he added.
Frontline has already made two investments from its new €60 million fund, which follows a previous €50 million 
fund. It has invested for the first time in Berlin into a start-up called Inkitt, a digital library and publishing platform for 
writers and readers.
Will Prendergast, Frontline Partner, said: “They are basically using machine learning to find emerging authors. It is 
going to disrupt the publishing industry.”
He said Frontline had also participated in a €1 million funding round for Siren Solutions in Galway. Siren is a date 
intelligence and visualisation company founded in 2011 by Dr Giovanni Tummarello and Dr Renaud Delbru as a 
spin-off of the work at the National University of Ireland Galway.
McQuillan said Frontline’s second fund would remain committed to investing in Irish and British start-ups but also 
look increasingly at Germany, the Nordics and other European countries. He said the fund was concerned about 
the impact of Brexit and the election of Donald Trump as US president.
Havok co-founder Steve Collins joins Frontline
“What Frontline does is support fast young companies to grow fast,” he said. “Any protectionist policies or closing of 
borders isn’t beneficial to a fast-growing company.
“Anything that affects hiring great talent is not a good thing for business.”
Investors in Frontline’s new fund include Enterprise Ireland, AIB, the Ireland Strategic Investment Fund, the 
European Investment Fund (EIF), and the family of the late Ryanair founder Tony Ryan. Shay Garvey, another 
Frontline partner, said the new fund will typically invest between €200,000 and €3 million and expects to invest in 
over 30 companies.
Frontline last year added former Twitter Europe boss Stephen McIntyre to its team.
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
Fearghal O'Connor: Ray Hernan is fighting a war on two fronts
Fearghal O'Connor: Ray Hernan is fighting a war on two fronts
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1121 words
Byline: Fearghal O'Connor
Highlight: The Bus Éireann boss will just have to get used to hostile drivers and their passengers
Body
The new Bus Éireann chief executive Ray Hernan has spent recent days touring bus depots in Galway, Athlone, 
Sligo and Donegal, holding “town hall” style meetings with his disgruntled staff.
Hernan, who joined Bus Éireann as chief financial officer late last year, became chief executive when his 
predecessor Martin Nolan stepped down in January.
He has outlined a series of cuts he believes are necessary to save the company from insolvency, but staff have 
voted for strike action.
Hernan set off for Bus Éireann’s farthest flung outposts last week to deliver a simple message: “You give me ideas 
on how to save costs, I’m listening.”
It was a tactic that Hernan used regularly during his time as chief executive at Arnotts, which faced its own 
difficulties and challenges. Prior to that he was exposed to financial rigour as director of finance at Michael 
O’Leary’s Ryanair.
But it is unlikely that Hernan will ever have felt the particular icy chill that can emanate from a gathering of 
disgruntled bus drivers in a depot in Athlone or Stranorlar.
Sources on all sides admit that in the last two weeks the dispute has moved into a new more intense phase: “It’s 
starting to get nasty now,” said one well-placed source
After last year’s pay awards to Luas and Dublin Bus workers, trouble at Bus Éireann was inevitable – not least 
because the semi-state company’s finances were beginning to unravel.
“When are the CIE companies not in some kind of crisis?” asked one source. “Here we go again singing off the 
insolvency hymn sheet.”
Fearghal O'Connor: Ray Hernan is fighting a war on two fronts
But a Grant Thornton report had made clear that insolvency was a real threat and work practices were a key 
problem. For example, it had a huge number of so-called spare drivers, driving up its overtime bill to €13 million. 
Cutting that has been a priority in recent weeks.
Drivers must now work a 37.5-hour week averaged over five days. Gone is the practice of working a nine-hour day, 
with four of those hours charged at overtime rates. Flexitime accrual has been eliminated and, where possible, 
hours are being standardised to a 9am to 5.15pm workday.
There was an immediate but unwelcome impact to the new hardline on overtime, with absenteeism jumping 24 per 
cent in the last two weeks, according to the company. That comes against the backdrop of a sick leave bill that 
increased by 25 per cent between 2015 and 2016.
For drivers, overtime has long been very much part of core pay. The basic pay of a Bus Éireann driver starts at 
€28,000, rising to €32,000 after four years. But the actual average earnings of a driver when overtime, shift, Sunday 
duty and expenses is included, is €46,600. Management’s battle to close that gap is proving to be an increasingly 
bitter one.
But Bus Éireann management is also fighting on another front. It must convince bus market regulator the National 
Transport Authority (NTA) that many of its so-called commercial routes are nothing of the sort. The granting of 
licences to private operators to use motorways rather than serving small towns and villages has put Bus Éireann 
under significant competitive pressure.
On the Dublin to Limerick route, for example, departures have doubled in the last six years and Bus Éireann’s 
average fare is higher than its key rival, which itself is losing money, according to its latest accounts.
In a confidential report last autumn, Bus Éireann claims ten of its unsubsidised Expressway routes would require €5 
million in subsidies were Expressway to be closed down. Negotiations are under way and the outcome could 
fundamentally change the financial position of the company should the NTA deem it appropriate to increase 
subsidies.
Trade unions argue that the company invested €45 million of its own money into subsidised routes over a ten-year 
period. They believe financial proposals contained in a review of the country’s rail services, co-written by Irish Rail 
and the NTA, provide a model. That review says Irish Rail should get €41.7 million each year for the next three 
years as compensation for underfunding during the recession. It also recommended a 40 per cent increase in 
payment to Irish Rail for the free travel scheme. Such a free travel increase for Bus Éireann would alone mean a 
€4.5 million boost for the bus company.
But transport industry sources are sceptical that the NTA or other government agencies have the desire to hand 
Bus Éireann that type of financial lifeline.
“There’s a completely different relationship between Bus Éireann and the NTA than there is between Irish Rail or 
Dublin Bus and the NTA,” said the source.
One key issue is the quality of information that Bus Éireann has on its own routes. The Irish Rail review was 
undertaken on the back of information from a significant route profitability exercise. To date, such hard facts are not 
so easily available at Bus Éireann, where route analysis systems were “not fit for purpose”, according to company 
tender documents.
A new system was procured last September and is currently being tested. The results it produces will have 
interesting consequences for the design of the company’s network – not to mention who pays for it.
Any fundamental changes will be hugely political. Two years ago this month, Hernan’s predecessor Martin Nolan 
also toured the country attending difficult meetings as the company’s financial woes were beginning to become 
apparent. He too faced a frosty reception, not from bus drivers but from local communities which had been told they 
were losing their bus service.
Fearghal O'Connor: Ray Hernan is fighting a war on two fronts
At one meeting in Castlecomer, Co Kilkenny, Nolan, who was accompanied by NTA chief executive Anne Graham, 
attempted to explain changes to the village’s service. In the face of heavy and vocal criticism from angry locals, 
Nolan caved, at least temporarily. “We don’t mind giving it a few weeks and months, but the passenger numbers 
just aren’t there,” he said.
Since then, the NTA has worked with Bus Éireann and private operators to introduce local services to fill gaps in 
Castlecomer and other areas, often with minibus services. But the real challenges will come if the company begins 
to look to make wholesale changes across a large number of key routes, particularly the high-profile but 
unprofitable ones that run between the capital and other cities.
“There has been a view up to now that there is no way they would pull off any of the core routes and leave them to 
the private sector,” said the industry source. “That would send a very clear signal that Bus Éireann is there for the 
taking on any commercial route and would be seen as an unwelcome development in terms of its nationwide 
brand.”
But Hernan will know that he may just have to get used to hostile audiences of bus drivers and their passengers at 
meetings in every corner of the country.
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
Fearghal O'Connor: Ray Hernan is fighting a war on two fronts
Fearghal O'Connor: Ray Hernan is fighting a war on two fronts
Sunday Business Post
April 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1121 words
Byline: Fearghal O'Connor
Highlight: The Bus Éireann boss will just have to get used to hostile drivers and their passengers
Body
The new Bus Éireann chief executive Ray Hernan has spent recent days touring bus depots in Galway, Athlone, 
Sligo and Donegal, holding “town hall” style meetings with his disgruntled staff.
Hernan, who joined Bus Éireann as chief financial officer late last year, became chief executive when his 
predecessor Martin Nolan stepped down in January.
He has outlined a series of cuts he believes are necessary to save the company from insolvency, but staff have 
voted for strike action.
Hernan set off for Bus Éireann’s farthest flung outposts last week to deliver a simple message: “You give me ideas 
on how to save costs, I’m listening.”
It was a tactic that Hernan used regularly during his time as chief executive at Arnotts, which faced its own 
difficulties and challenges. Prior to that he was exposed to financial rigour as director of finance at Michael 
O’Leary’s Ryanair.
But it is unlikely that Hernan will ever have felt the particular icy chill that can emanate from a gathering of 
disgruntled bus drivers in a depot in Athlone or Stranorlar.
Sources on all sides admit that in the last two weeks the dispute has moved into a new more intense phase: “It’s 
starting to get nasty now,” said one well-placed source
After last year’s pay awards to Luas and Dublin Bus workers, trouble at Bus Éireann was inevitable – not least 
because the semi-state company’s finances were beginning to unravel.
“When are the CIE companies not in some kind of crisis?” asked one source. “Here we go again singing off the 
insolvency hymn sheet.”
Fearghal O'Connor: Ray Hernan is fighting a war on two fronts
But a Grant Thornton report had made clear that insolvency was a real threat and work practices were a key 
problem. For example, it had a huge number of so-called spare drivers, driving up its overtime bill to €13 million. 
Cutting that has been a priority in recent weeks.
Drivers must now work a 37.5-hour week averaged over five days. Gone is the practice of working a nine-hour day, 
with four of those hours charged at overtime rates. Flexitime accrual has been eliminated and, where possible, 
hours are being standardised to a 9am to 5.15pm workday.
There was an immediate but unwelcome impact to the new hardline on overtime, with absenteeism jumping 24 per 
cent in the last two weeks, according to the company. That comes against the backdrop of a sick leave bill that 
increased by 25 per cent between 2015 and 2016.
For drivers, overtime has long been very much part of core pay. The basic pay of a Bus Éireann driver starts at 
€28,000, rising to €32,000 after four years. But the actual average earnings of a driver when overtime, shift, Sunday 
duty and expenses is included, is €46,600. Management’s battle to close that gap is proving to be an increasingly 
bitter one.
But Bus Éireann management is also fighting on another front. It must convince bus market regulator the National 
Transport Authority (NTA) that many of its so-called commercial routes are nothing of the sort. The granting of 
licences to private operators to use motorways rather than serving small towns and villages has put Bus Éireann 
under significant competitive pressure.
On the Dublin to Limerick route, for example, departures have doubled in the last six years and Bus Éireann’s 
average fare is higher than its key rival, which itself is losing money, according to its latest accounts.
In a confidential report last autumn, Bus Éireann claims ten of its unsubsidised Expressway routes would require €5 
million in subsidies were Expressway to be closed down. Negotiations are under way and the outcome could 
fundamentally change the financial position of the company should the NTA deem it appropriate to increase 
subsidies.
Trade unions argue that the company invested €45 million of its own money into subsidised routes over a ten-year 
period. They believe financial proposals contained in a review of the country’s rail services, co-written by Irish Rail 
and the NTA, provide a model. That review says Irish Rail should get €41.7 million each year for the next three 
years as compensation for underfunding during the recession. It also recommended a 40 per cent increase in 
payment to Irish Rail for the free travel scheme. Such a free travel increase for Bus Éireann would alone mean a 
€4.5 million boost for the bus company.
But transport industry sources are sceptical that the NTA or other government agencies have the desire to hand 
Bus Éireann that type of financial lifeline.
“There’s a completely different relationship between Bus Éireann and the NTA than there is between Irish Rail or 
Dublin Bus and the NTA,” said the source.
One key issue is the quality of information that Bus Éireann has on its own routes. The Irish Rail review was 
undertaken on the back of information from a significant route profitability exercise. To date, such hard facts are not 
so easily available at Bus Éireann, where route analysis systems were “not fit for purpose”, according to company 
tender documents.
A new system was procured last September and is currently being tested. The results it produces will have 
interesting consequences for the design of the company’s network – not to mention who pays for it.
Any fundamental changes will be hugely political. Two years ago this month, Hernan’s predecessor Martin Nolan 
also toured the country attending difficult meetings as the company’s financial woes were beginning to become 
apparent. He too faced a frosty reception, not from bus drivers but from local communities which had been told they 
were losing their bus service.
Fearghal O'Connor: Ray Hernan is fighting a war on two fronts
At one meeting in Castlecomer, Co Kilkenny, Nolan, who was accompanied by NTA chief executive Anne Graham, 
attempted to explain changes to the village’s service. In the face of heavy and vocal criticism from angry locals, 
Nolan caved, at least temporarily. “We don’t mind giving it a few weeks and months, but the passenger numbers 
just aren’t there,” he said.
Since then, the NTA has worked with Bus Éireann and private operators to introduce local services to fill gaps in 
Castlecomer and other areas, often with minibus services. But the real challenges will come if the company begins 
to look to make wholesale changes across a large number of key routes, particularly the high-profile but 
unprofitable ones that run between the capital and other cities.
“There has been a view up to now that there is no way they would pull off any of the core routes and leave them to 
the private sector,” said the industry source. “That would send a very clear signal that Bus Éireann is there for the 
taking on any commercial route and would be seen as an unwelcome development in terms of its nationwide 
brand.”
But Hernan will know that he may just have to get used to hostile audiences of bus drivers and their passengers at 
meetings in every corner of the country.
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
A helpful guide to Brexiters' excuses if talks falter STRANGERS' GALLERY
A helpful guide to Brexiters' excuses if talks falter; STRANGERS' GALLERY
Financial Times (London, England)
April 1, 2017 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMMENT; Pg. 12
Length: 527 words
Byline: Henry Mance
Body
The triggering of Article 50 was all about sunny optimism. But if Brexit negotiations do disappoint, it is important for 
Leavers to have the right excuses at the ready.
When no trade and services deal is struck 
"I did tell you the EU was a protectionist organisation."
When Guy Verhofstadt makes clear that the European Parliament will veto the deal 
"If I may say so, this is exactly the problem with the EU - all these powerful people that even I have never heard of."
When Britain agrees to pay a multibillion-euro exit fee 
"This is actually smart economics. Quite frankly, the euro is a better investment than the pound right now."
When banks relocate to mainland Europe
"Let's focus on many jobs that the banks are keeping in London, including several advisory roles that I personally 
plan to apply for once I'm sacked from this job."
When no deal is struck to secure the rights of EU nationals in the UK
A helpful guide to Brexiters' excuses if talks falter STRANGERS' GALLERY
"Look, it's not as if they'll all be leaving at once. We are putting on a variety of different Ryanair flights this week."
When immigration fails to fall
"Our target is net migration, and we've been working very hard to ensure that more British people leave."
When parliament has no time to amend any EU regulations
"It turns out that a lot of this stuff is actually quite technical. If I'm honest, it says more about the EU than it does 
about us."
When there are queues of trucks at Dover, because of glitches in the new customs regime
"If foreign lorries are going to come to this country, they need to learn British habits - such as queueing."
When a hard border is reintroduced between Northern Ireland and Ireland
"We promised no borders of the past, and that's exactly what we've delivered. This is a border of the future."
When Scotland votes for independence
"They may have voted for independence, but that doesn't mean they are going to make a success of it. Just look at 
us and Brexit."
When Britain does not withdraw from security co-operation with the EU after all 
"You see, we're not crazy!"
When Donald Trump declines to sign a trade deal
"He's actually just being a gentleman. He knows there was a real risk of him taking advantage of us."
When trade negotiations with Brazil and India break down
"There are a whole range of exciting opportunities, thanks to space travel technology. So I'm not going to get too 
hung up on one or two places that are still stuck on our own planet. This is the start of a truly Galactic Britain."
When flights deporting EU nationals are grounded due to the expiry of the Open Skies regime 
"Many people actually prefer the ferry to Ryanair."
When Britain is forced to apply World Trade Organization tariffs to food imports from the EU 
"Good. Did anyone even like avocado?"
When no British team qualifies for the 2020 European football championship
"There are 193 countries in the world and most of them are not in the European Championship."
When Britain fails to leave the EU within two years
"I don't think anyone ever said we'd be out by March 2019. The important thing is that we've taken control of the 
decision of whether we leave or not. As to what happens next - that's up to prime minister Farage and his team."
henry.mance@ft.com 
Load-Date: March 31, 2017
A helpful guide to Brexiters' excuses if talks falter STRANGERS' GALLERY
End of Document
Jeju Air takes final 737-800 from SMBC Aviation Capital
Jeju Air takes final 737-800 from SMBC Aviation Capital
AirFinance Journal
April 2017
Copyright 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 123 words
Byline: Olivier Bonnassies
Body
South Korea's low-cost carrier Jeju Air has taken delivery of the final Boeing 737-800 underalease agreement with 
SMBC Aviation Capital.
The aircraft, MSN 37543, is a 2009-vintage aircraft that was previously operated by Ryanair, according to Airfinance 
Journal's Fleet Tracker.
Irish-based SMBC Aviation Capital announced a four-aircraft agreement last November.
The first aircraft, MSN 35018, delivered in December. MSNs 37540 and 37541 were delivered in February and 
March.
This is the third portfolio deal that SMBC Aviation Capital has completed with Jeju Air during the past year and 
brings to 11, the number of aircraft on lease to the Korean carrier.
Jeju Air plans to own the three Boeing 737-800s that it ordered from Boeing in January.
Load-Date: May 15, 2017
End of Document
All aboard the in-house Commission gravy train
All aboard the in-house Commission gravy train
Financial Times (London, England)
April 1, 2017 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 10
Length: 200 words
Body
Sir, I always enjoy the "Lunch with the FT" articles, not least because it's interesting to read what the interviewees 
order and what the cost is. Some of the choices are almost stereotypical and I can't help thinking that some are 
made in the knowledge that they will be printed for the world to see. So, we had Michael O' Leary (chief executive 
of Ryanair) ordering a chicken salad and coffee from the canteen for EUR14.60 (for two), and Nigel Farage , being 
honest (if a bit excessive) about his preferences, sinking a few pints, washed down by a bottle of red, costing 
around £135. And who could forget Richard Desmond , who ordered a bottle of Château Palmer 1983 at £580 - 
total bill, including service, £758.81.
Then in last week's Financial Times the stereotype to top them all. European Commission president Jean-Claude 
Juncker , eating at the commission's in-house restaurant, sips a glass of Languedoc to accompany the carpaccio 
and tender veal fillets. And the price: complimentary. Someone in the taxpaying community must have paid, and 
"complimentary" says a lot about the European Commission's - literal - gravy train.
Nice work if you can get it, Jean-Claude.
Peter Brookes
Penang, Malaysia
Load-Date: March 31, 2017
All aboard the in-house Commission gravy train
End of Document
ANALYSIS: Flexing muscles in the race for space E Airbus unveiled its Space-Flex lavatory and galley concept 
for the A320 at the Aircraft Interiors Expo in 2011....
ANALYSIS: Flexing muscles in the race for space;  E Airbus unveiled its 
Space-Flex lavatory and galley concept for the A320 at the Aircraft Interiors 
Expo in 2011. The design replaced a full-width rear galley with a smaller 
galley and toilet combination, freeing up room for extra legroom or an extra 
row of seats.
Flight International
March 31, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 897 words
Body
Airbus unveiled its Space-Flex lavatory and galley concept for the A320 at the Aircraft Interiors Expo in 2011. The 
design replaced a full-width rear galley with a smaller galley and toilet combination, freeing up room for extra 
legroom or an extra row of seats.
Space-Flex has gained traction since the European Aviation Safety Agency re-evaluated the narrowbody, allowing 
Airbus to increase the exit limit on the type from 180 to a potential 195 seats. According to Airbus, 70% of low-
carriers and charter operators have since chosen Space-Flex.
Get all the coverage from Aircraft Interiors Expo on our dedicated landing page
The initial Space-Flex version entered service in 2013 with LATAM Airlines Group. The idea has since evolved to its 
current form, which offers increased galley capacity – important when dealing with higher-density configurations. 
This change was made by Airbus in collaboration with airline customers.
Airbus offers Space-Flex as a line fit option as well as supplying it as a kit which can be retrofitted on carriers’ 
existing A320 fleets. The concept is part of an effort by Airbus to develop a cabin branding called AirSpace. It will 
feature across the A320 family as well as on widebodies like the A350 and A330neo.
According to Flight Fleets Analyzer there are currently 112 in-service A320s with more than 180 passenger seats, 
up to a maximum of 188. European low-cost carrier Vueling was the first carrier to take advantage of the A320’s 
increased exit limit when MSN6483 was delivered in March 2015, and has adding a further 15 186-seat A320s 
since.
ANALYSIS: Flexing muscles in the race for space E Airbus unveiled its Space-Flex lavatory and galley concept 
for the A320 at the Aircraft Interiors Expo in 2011....
In North America, Spirit Airlines was the first carrier to feature the Space-Flex cabin option. Its A320s contain 182 
seats, eight of which are marketed as business class with a 36in pitch and a width of 18.5in.
Boeing’s selection of upward- and outward-swinging overwing emergency doors on its narrowbodies has long 
meant its exit limit was greater than that found on comparable Airbus types: there are 1,373 in-service 737-800s 
with more than 180 seats, 79% of which can accommodate 189 passengers or more.
Boeing’s 737 Max family – the more fuel-efficient next generation of its narrowbody – includes a 737 Max 200.
This high-density variant is based on the 737 Max 8 but features a reconfigured exit row arrangement, allowing it to 
accommodate up to 200 passengers in a one-class configuration. Ryanair is set to be the launch customer for the 
Max 200, with first delivery expected in 2019. It has ordered 100 of the variant with another 100 options.
Vietnamese low-cost carrier VietJet Air is also on Boeing’s books for the Max 200 with 100 orders, while the 
Chinese mainline Xiamen Airlines signed a memorandum of understanding for up to 30 examples for its low-cost 
operations at the Farnborough air show in July 2016.
CASE STUDY: EASYJET
With more than 200 Airbus A320-family jets in service, EasyJet is one of the world’s largest operators of the 
Toulouse-made narrowbody.
On top of receiving higher-density A320s direct from the manufacturer, EasyJet is putting 105 of its existing fleet 
through a retrofit programme over the next year, spreading the work between Slovenian MRO provider Adria 
Tehnika, Iberia Maintenance, SR Technics and Lufthansa Technik.
The work will feature the reconfiguration of the aft cabin to the Space-Flex format, with the majority of each retrofit 
kit being supplied by Airbus, allowing an extra row of seats to be installed and bringing total passenger capacity to 
186 in an all-economy configuration.
The additional space made available by reshuffling the galley and lavatory position means average and minimum 
seat pitch on board remains the same as on EasyJet’s lower-capacity twinjets. Recaro’s non-reclining SL 3510 
seats have been chosen; they have a 17.1in width and are installed with a pitch of 29.9in.
EasyJet received its first line-fitted Space-Flex A320 in May 2016 as part of a set of seven over the summer period.
Use of flight tracking data from FlightGlobal’s FlightStats tracking data service allows routes flown by EasyJet’s 
186-seat aircraft to be discerned.
During the 2016 summer season – 27 March to 29 October – 4,159 EasyJet flights were flown by these seven 
aircraft on 74 distinct airport pairs.
The aircraft entered into service between May and July, in general each flying four or six segments a day.
Based at London Gatwick over this period, the aircraft tended to fly to popular tourist destinations in southern 
Europe, with the top 15 routes shown here accounting for around 71% of flights seen.
Indicators suggest that higher-density cabins were not simply added to EasyJet’s schedule and deployed randomly. 
This is borne out by the top routes flown by this sub-fleet not directly matching the top scheduled routes flown by 
the low-cost carrier over the period.
EasyJet’s schedule contained on average fewer than 12 round-trips per week from Gatwick to Athens, Corfu, 
Lisbon, Split and Mahón during summer 2016 – compared with about 40 for the likes of Geneva and Barcelona.
ANALYSIS: Flexing muscles in the race for space E Airbus unveiled its Space-Flex lavatory and galley concept 
for the A320 at the Aircraft Interiors Expo in 2011....
EasyJet also appeared to move around the deployment of its high-density jets during the season. Around the 
middle of September, the sub-fleet stopped visiting Valencia and Pisa as often, while destinations including 
Tenerife, Thessaloniki and Dalaman received more visits from the 186-seaters.
Get all the coverage from Aircraft Interiors Expo on our dedicated landing page
Load-Date: March 31, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair announces plan to establish Polish charter airline Ryanair will establish a new Warsaw-based charter 
airline in summer 2018 to serve the Polish leisure ....
Ryanair announces plan to establish Polish charter airline; Ryanair will 
establish a new Warsaw-based charter airline in summer 2018 to serve the 
Polish leisure market.
Flight International
March 31, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 140 words
Body
Ryanair will establish a new Warsaw-based charter airline in summer 2018 to serve the Polish leisure market.
The budget carrier says the carrier will be called “Ryanair Sun” and will initially have a fleet of five Boeing 737-800s.
Ryanair says the new charter airline will “deliver best-in-class charter services, at the lowest cost to Polish tour 
operators, and offer great value for customers flying to Poland’s favourite holiday destinations”.
Senior executives for Ryanair Sun are currently being recruited to “set up and grow this operation”, it adds.
A number of recruitment advertisements have been posted on the Ryanair website, including for the positions of 
chief commercial officer, chief financial officer and chief pilot.
Ryanair already serves the Polish market through its scheduled services and has a base at Warsaw Modlin airport.
Load-Date: March 31, 2017
End of Document
Empire state of denial
Empire state of denial
Financial Times (London, England)
March 30, 2017 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 12
Length: 356 words
Body
The old headline "Fog in Channel - Continent Isolated" is particularly satirical when applied to trade relations. 
Exports to the EU are 46 per cent of the UK's global total.
The dubiously nicknamed Empire 2.0 plan to sell more to Britain's former colonies will be no substitute. Brexit trade 
negotiations could have a big and mostly negative impact on corporate valuations.
Theresa May, UK prime minister, hopes for a "bold and ambitious" new trade plan that involves leaving the EU 
customs union but somehow retaining frictionless trade. What happens if she fails and default World Trade 
Organisation rules apply instead? Think-tank Civitas foresees £5.2bn in tariff costs. The Institute for Fiscal Studies 
says trade could fall 17-29 per cent. The UK would be likely to get WTO "most favoured nation" terms, meaning an 
average charge of 5.6 per cent. This masks wide variations, including a 10 per cent levy on car exports, and animal 
and dairy tariffs between 20 and 35 per cent. Financial services would be worst off as passporting rights lapsed.
Shares are responding mainly to macro factors such as sterling weakness and rate forecasts. As mid-channel fog 
clears to reveal the shape of trade relations, stock-specific impacts will be felt. Shares in European financial 
services groups, such as the London Stock Exchange, face a volatile two years. Automotive suppliers such as GKN 
also look exposed: if customers move factories to the EU, some of their own plants may need to follow. Airlines 
such as Ryanair and easyJet could lose their European licences under rules requiring majority ownership by EU 
nationals.
Empire state of denial
The UK is expected to negotiate on a sector-by-sector basis. Trade-offs are inevitable. The industries that lobby 
most effectively should emerge relative winners. If the EU insists on industry-specific tariffs, they will probably be a 
watered-down version of what the WTO would impose.
Lower wages or sterling weakening could offset some of the losses. But the pound barely shifted from its seven-
week high as Article 50 was triggered. It cannot be relied on to bail out equity investors.
Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com 
Load-Date: March 29, 2017
End of Document
The sky is falling: Budget airline boss sounds alarm on EU air deal
The sky is falling: Budget airline boss sounds alarm on EU air deal
City A.M.
March 30, 2017 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 136 words
Byline: EMMA HASLETT
Body
LOW-COST airline Ryanair yesterday said that unless the government puts the aviation sector at the centre of its 
negotiating strategy, the UK could be left without any flights to and from EU countries.
Ryanair reckons the UK leaving Europe's "Open Skies" system means the government must negotiate a bilateral 
agreement with the EU to allow flights in and out of Europe.
World Trade Organization rules, which Theresa May has threatened to revert to if she cannot agree a deal with the 
EU, do not cover aviation.
"With Britain planning to leave the EU and its Open Skies agreement, there is a distinct possibility that there may be 
no flights between the UK and Europe for a period of time after March 2019," said Ryanair chief exec Kenny 
Jacobs.
"The best we can hope for is a new bilateral agreement between the UK and EU."
Load-Date: March 30, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Lower as Financial Services Stocks Head South
European ADRs Edge Lower as Financial Services Stocks Head South
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 29, 2017 Wednesday 10:40 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 260 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.5% lower at 127 on the Bank of New York Mellon Europe 
ADR Index on Wednesday morning.
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Marine Harvest (MHG), a Norwegian seafood company, 3.3% lower, 
followed by Criteo (CRTO), a French technology company, down by 3.0% and Aegon - New York Shares (AEG), a 
Dutch life insurance, pensions and asset management company, 2.3% lower. Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria 
(BBVA), a Spanish financial group, was also 2.3% lower. 
In the UK, Prudential (PUK), a British financial services group, was 2.8% lower, followed by low-cost airline Ryanair 
(RYAAY), down by 1.7% and Smith & Nephew (SNN), a medical devices business, 1.6% lower. Randgold 
Resources (GOLD), a gold mining company, was 1.4% lower. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Nabriva Therapeutics (NBRV), an Austria-based clinical-stage 
biopharmaceutical company, up by 2.8%, followed by Sequans Communications (SQNS), a French developer of 
chipset solutions, up by 2.2%. Materialise (MTLS), a Belgian provider of 3D printing software and services, and 
Natuzzi (NTZ), an Italian furniture manufacturer, were both 1.9% higher. 
And, in the UK, Adaptimmune Therapeutics (ADAP), a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, was 6.3% higher, 
followed by Avadel (AVDL), a specialty pharmaceutical company, up by 2.0% and Amec Foster Wheeler (AMFW), a 
global engineering conglomerate, up by 1.4%. GW Pharmaceuticals (GWPH), a biopharmaceutical company, was 
1.3% higher. 
Price: 11.45, Change: +0.31, Percent Change: +2.78
Load-Date: March 30, 2017
European ADRs Edge Lower as Financial Services Stocks Head South
End of Document
UK airlines risk flight curbs in Europe Brexit negotiations
UK airlines risk flight curbs in Europe; Brexit negotiations
Financial Times (London, England)
March 29, 2017 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 373 words
Byline: Paul McClean in Brussels
Body
British airlines could face severe restrictions on European flights immediately after a "hard" Brexit , the European 
Commission has warned.
Commission officials told airline representatives that under a transitional deal after a hard Brexit, UK carriers would 
be able to operate only direct flights between the UK and the EU, say two people familiar with the discussions.
Under such restrictions, airlines such as easyJet and BMI, which currently fly between destinations in the 
continental EU, such as Milan to Munich, would not be able to operate such routes without changing their status.
Should Britain impose the same restrictions on EU airlines, Ireland-based Ryanair could be prevented from 
operating intra-UK flights.
The probability of a hard Brexit has risen since Theresa May, prime minister, made clear her plans to leave the 
EU's single market and end the authority of the European Court of Justice over British courts. But one big question 
is whether the UK will accept European aviation law, over which the ECJ has the ultimate say. EasyJet has said 
that it intends to set up a new EU-based company with a European air operators' certificate to handle intra-EU 
flights, expected to cost £10m over two years.
UK airlines risk flight curbs in Europe Brexit negotiations
UK airlines already face a scramble to ensure they are majority owned by EU nationals after Brexit - which could 
involve forcing UK investors to sell their shares to EU citizens, in order to comply with the bloc's strict rules on 
control.
A spokesperson for BMI Regional said it would wait until the end of 2017 before deciding if it would follow easyJet 
and set up a hub on the continent.
Airlines would have to register some aircraft as UK and others as EU. Once a UK plane reaches the EU, it would 
have to return to Britain without continuing to a second mainland destination.
"It could see services from UK airports reduced, with the companies only focusing on the most profitable routes to 
offset the increased operating costs," said one aviation expert.
IAG, parent company of British Airways, will not be affected by the restrictions, as all BA flights currently leave from 
or arrive in the UK. But the company must still satisfy regulators that it is majority-EU owned after Brexit.
Additional reporting by Robert Wright
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Calls For Post-Brexit Air Travel Plan, Says 'Distinct Possibility' of No UK-To-EU Flights
Ryanair Calls For Post-Brexit Air Travel Plan, Says 'Distinct Possibility' of No 
UK-To-EU Flights
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 29, 2017 Wednesday 6:37 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 175 words
Body
 Ryanair (RYAAY) called on the UK government to outline a post-Brexit strategy to maintain air travel and said there 
is a "distinct possibility" there may be no flights between the UK and Europe for a time after March 2019. 
The company warned that only 12 months remain until possible schedule cuts are made, as summer 2019 
schedules must be released in March 2018.
"With the UK set to leave Europe's 'Open Skies' system, the UK Government will either have to negotiate a bilateral 
agreement with the EU to allow flights to/from Europe to continue, or else revert to historical WTO [World Trade 
Organization] rules, which do not cover aviation, thereby raising the distinct possibility of no flights between Europe 
and the UK for a period from March 2019 in the absence of a bilateral deal," the company said.
Ryanair said it has pivoted growth away from the UK to other EU airports, basing no additional aircraft at its 19 UK 
airports in 2017 and cutting its growth rate from 15% to just 6% this year.
Price: 82.37, Change: -1.23, Percent Change: -1.47
Load-Date: March 30, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair calls on Britain to put aviation at top of Brexit agenda
Ryanair calls on Britain to put aviation at top of Brexit agenda
Business World (Digest)
March 29, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 172 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair has called on the UK Government to put aviation at the forefront of its negotiations with the EU and provide 
a coherent post-Brexit plan or risk leaving the UK without any flights to/from Europe for a period from March 2019, 
when it exits the EU.
Irish low-cost airline Ryanair warned that it would not be able to fly between Britain and Europe if the country did not 
agree a new aviation deal as part of the Brexit negotiations which will be triggered later on Wednesday.
Ryanair warned that with Britain set to leave Europe's "Open Skies" system, the country will need to negotiate a 
bilateral agreement with the EU to allow flights to and from Europe to continue.
"Some nine months on from the Brexit referendum, we are no closer to knowing what effect it will have on aviation," 
Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said.
"It's become worrying that the UK Government seems to have no plan B to maintain Britain's liberalized air links 
with Europe, in the absence of remaining in the "Open Skies" regime." (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: April 10, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Fractionally Lower as Telecom Stocks Contract
European ADRs Fractionally Lower as Telecom Stocks Contract
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 28, 2017 Tuesday 10:42 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 266 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.01% lower at 127.41 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Tuesday morning. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by VimpelCom - Com (VIP), a Dutch provider of telecommunications 
services, 2.4% lower, followed by Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (ERIC), a provider of infrastructure, services 
and software to the telecommunication industry, down by 1.8% and Orange (ORAN), a French telecommunication 
services company, 1.1% lower. Materialise (MTLS),  a Belgian provider of 3D printing software and services, was 
0.8% lower. 
In the UK, low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY) was 1.6% lower, followed by Lloyds Banking Group (LYG), down by 
0.9% and Vodafone (VOD), a mobile communications company, 0.8% lower. AstraZeneca (AZN), a 
biopharmaceutical company, was 0.7% lower.
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by TiGenix (TIG), a Belgium-based biopharmaceutical company, 4.2% 
higher, followed by Oasmia Pharmaceutical (OASM), a Sweden-based pharmaceutical company, up by 2.5% and 
Deutsche Bank - Global Registered Shares (DB), 1.5% higher. Nabriva Therapeutics (NBRV), an Austria-based 
clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, was 1.2% higher. 
And, in the UK, Pearson (PSO), an education company, was 3.0% higher, followed by Adaptimmune Therapeutics 
(ADAP), a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, up by 2.6% and Amec Foster Wheeler (AMFW), a global 
engineering conglomerate, 1.7% higher. Trinity Biotech (TRIB), a manufacturer of medical diagnostic products, was 
1.1% higher.
Price: 15.81, Change: +0.48, Percent Change: +3.13
Load-Date: March 29, 2017
European ADRs Fractionally Lower as Telecom Stocks Contract
End of Document
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed 
Fortunes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 27, 2017 Monday 10:57 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 225 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.1% higher at 126.93 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Monday morning. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (ERIC), a telecommunications services 
provider, up by 2.4%, followed by Edap (EDAP), a French medical devices developer, up by 2.0% and Nokia 
(NOK),  a technology investor, 1.9% higher. Nabriva Therapeutics (NBRV), an Austria-based clinical-stage 
biopharmaceutical company, was also 1.9% higher.
In the UK, pharmaceutical companies AstraZeneca (AZN), Trinity Biotech (TRIB) and Shire (SHPG) were all 1.3% 
higher followed by low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY), up by 1.0%. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Talend (TLND), a provider of open source integration solutions, down 
by 2.7%, followed by Forward Pharma (FWP), a Danish biopharmaceutical company, 2.6% lower and voxelJet 
(VJET), a German three-dimensional printer manufacturer, down by 2.5%. STMicroelectronics - New York Shares 
(STM),  an Italian semiconductor company, was 1.9% lower. 
And, in the UK, Midatech Pharma (MTP), an early-stage biopharmaceutical company, was 3.6% lower, miners BHP 
Billiton (BBL) and Rio Tinto (RIO) were down by 3.5% and 2.9%, respectively, while Lloyds Banking Group (LYG) 
was 1.2% lower. 
Price: 6.74, Change: +0.19, Percent Change: +2.82
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
End of Document
ANALYSIS: How Ryanair grows at secondary airports Ryanair on 28 March makes its most eye-catching move 
yet into more mainstream markets, starting to operate at ....
ANALYSIS: How Ryanair grows at secondary airports; Ryanair on 28 March 
makes its most eye-catching move yet into more mainstream markets, 
starting to operate at Lufthansa's Frankfurt fortress, but its interest in bigger 
hubs does not necessarily signal that it is turning its back on secondary 
airports.
Flight International
March 27, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 1236 words
Body
Ryanair on 28 March makes its most eye-catching move yet into more mainstream markets, starting to operate at 
Lufthansa's Frankfurt fortress, but its interest in bigger hubs does not necessarily signal that it is turning its back on 
secondary airports.
London Stansted and Dublin may lead the way as its biggest airports, but FlightGlobal schedules data for March 
shows Bergamo's Orio al Serio is its third biggest in terms of seat capacity.
Bergamo, northeast of Milan, was Ryanair's first Italian base when it was established in the spring of 2003, and the 
Irish carrier's third in continental Europe after Hahn and Charleroi. All three were emblematic not just of Ryanair's 
pan-European ambitions, but of its model of serving big cities through out-of-town airports: Charleroi for Brussels, 
Hahn for Frankfurt, and Bergamo for Milan.
Ryanair's launch of services this summer from Frankfurt Main airport means it now serves primary airports in all 
three of those target cities. But in all three cases, Ryanair still has a larger operation at the alternative airport than at 
the primary one, and not just because it has been active at these airports for longer.
Bergamo illustrates the phenomenon. Ryanair began serving Milan Malpensa in December 2015, and has quickly 
built up a presence there, serving nine destinations from the airport. FlightGlobal schedules data shows that it will 
have 800,000 seats from Malpensa this year.
But growth at Bergamo has continued at the same time. After a stall amid a hiatus in aircraft deliveries, expansion 
at the airport resumed when Ryanair's new batch of 737-800s started arriving in late 2014. It will offer nearly 5.8 
ANALYSIS: How Ryanair grows at secondary airports Ryanair on 28 March makes its most eye-catching move 
yet into more mainstream markets, starting to operate at ....
million seats from Bergamo across 2017, FlightGlobal schedules show – an increase of almost a million from two 
years ago.
Ryanair has also continued to grow at Charleroi. It has added about 400,000 seats at the airport since it launched 
out of Brussels' primary airport. This, though, falls short of the 1.6 million seats it will have added from the Belgian 
capital's main airport since launching its base there in 2014.
It is too early to see what impact the launch of operations out of Frankfurt Main may have on Ryanair's Hahn 
operations. But while Ryanair has been growing its German presence, it has roughly halved seat capacity at Hahn 
since 2010, FlightGlobal schedules data shows. That was partly driven by cuts in the summer of 2011 following 
implementation of a German aviation tax. Ryanair's Hahn capacity has steadied since 2014, but remains down.
Ryanair last year disclosed plans to establish a base at Frankfurt's primary airport, initially with leisure routes. It will 
expand its operation this winter by basing seven aircraft at the hub and spreading the network to 20 destinations, 
including five in Italy and seven in Spain and the Canary Islands.
"I would have said Frankfurt Main was the next airport [after Heathrow and Paris Charles de Gaulle] where we 
would never have a base, yet we are opening a base there at the end of March," Ryanair chief executive Michael 
O'Leary told FlightGlobal earlier this year. "We start with two aircraft in the summer and then it goes up to nine 
aircraft in the winter.
"But they have room, they have no slot constraints, and they've come up with an incentive programme for low-cost 
carriers because they want to develop a low-cost business at Frankfurt Main, which is a remarkable development, 
as I would have said never would we fly to Frankfurt Main."
SECONDARY ROLES
Where Ryanair serves two airports from the same city, excluding London, it tends to have a distinct route strategy 
for each.
Ryanair established its presence in Rome at secondary airport Ciampino, but has since developed operations at the 
Italian capital's main international gateway, Fiumicino. It now largely uses Fiumicino to serve domestic and southern 
European leisure destinations. Ciampino instead has been the focus for its routes to markets such as the UK, 
Germany and Scandinavia.
The result is that Ryanair has built a strong presence at Fiumicino – the 10th-biggest airport in its network by seat 
capacity in March – while maintaining its presence at Ciampino, which is eighth on that list.
Similarly, the airline has continued to grow at Warsaw Modlin, despite launching operations at the Polish capital's 
Chopin airport in 2016. It has used Warsaw's primary airport to launch domestic flights.
Not all airports fit this pattern, however. Passenger numbers at Girona – near Barcelona, and where Ryanair 
opened a base in 2004 – have declined from a high of almost 5.3 million in 2009 to 1.8 million by the end of 2015. 
Ryanair, which opened a base at Barcelona's El Prat airport in 2010, is scheduled to operate this year less than a 
third of the capacity it did in 2010. Much of the drop came in 2011, Ryanair blaming the collapse of a five-year 
expansion project at the airport.
Ryanair's return to the UK domestic market in 2014 brought Glasgow's primary airport into the Irish carrier's 
network, and it has since built a network from the airport that now outstrips its capacity from nearby Prestwick 
airport.
The backdrop to all of Ryanair's capacity and network decisions over the past couple of years – and for the 
foreseeable future – is that the airline is in expansion mode. It will have grown its 737-800 fleet by 42 to 383 aircraft 
over the course of its financial year ending 31 March, and will add 44 aircraft in its 2018 financial year. As a result, it 
is not necessarily facing either/or decisions on where to grow.
ANALYSIS: How Ryanair grows at secondary airports Ryanair on 28 March makes its most eye-catching move 
yet into more mainstream markets, starting to operate at ....
But the Irish carrier's announcement earlier in March that is to establish a base and open seven new routes at 
Memmingen, located outside Munich in Allgau, illustrates its continued interest in growing from secondary airports.
RYANAIR RELIANCE
While Ryanair has helped put several secondary airports on the map and delivered unprecedented growth, these 
gateways' fortunes are as a result closely tied to the Irish carrier's. At a number of the airports, Ryanair holds more 
than four-fifths of the seat capacity, with Central European budget carrier Wizz Air almost the only other show in 
town. At some it is the only scheduled operator.
For these airports, the challenge is to retain growth momentum, both with Ryanair and from other customers.
Again, Bergamo offers encouragement. Traffic has grown at the airport every year except one over the past 
decade, and was up more than 7% in 2016, to pass 11 million passengers. It now ranks among Europe's 50 biggest 
airports and has surpassed Milan's slot-constrained Linate in annual passenger numbers.
Ryanair is again driving that growth. FlightGlobal schedules data shows that in March the Irish carrier accounted for 
85% of seat capacity at Bergamo. And much of this year's growth comes from the same source: Ryanair has in 
March added links from Bergamo to Bordeaux, Edinburgh, Luxembourg, Oradea, Vigo and Vitoria.
But this summer also includes the first services from Arkia Israeli Airlines and Ukraine International Airlines, serving 
Tel Aviv and Chernivsti, respectively, to take the number of airline operators at Bergamo to 14.
It hopes for a further boost with the approval of a new train link from Milan Central Station direct to the airport 
terminal. "With development plans now in place, Milan Bergamo will be able to offer a vital train connection to 
downtown Milan, further increasing the airport's catchment area," says the gateway's operator.
Load-Date: March 31, 2017
End of Document
OPINION: Is this Alitalia 's final last chance? E As Alitalia faces yet another round of cost cutting, just how 
many last chances for salvation can one airline ....
OPINION: Is this Alitalia's final last chance?;  E As Alitalia faces yet another 
round of cost cutting, just how many last chances for salvation can one 
airline have?
Flight International
March 27, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 220 words
Body
Just how many last chances for salvation can one airline have?
Alitalia, one of Europe’s ailing legacy carriers, is facing yet another round of cost cutting as it attempts to make a 
long overdue return to profitability.
It has been here before, of course, as recently as 2014, when a transformation programme was launched in the 
wake of Etihad’s investment in the airline.
Back then, a return to the black was scheduled for 2017 – but faced with deteriorating market conditions and 
intense competition from low-cost rivals, that target has been pushed back to 2019.
Under the latest plan, the beleaguered flag carrier will slash its narrowbody fleet by 20%, instead concentrating on 
its medium- and long-haul operations. This might have made sense three years ago, before Norwegian revived the 
low-cost, long-haul model.
If the likes of Air France and now IAG, with the launch of its Level operation, feel compelled to react, you can be 
sure they feel there is a significant threat.
Alitalia’s move feels like a belated response – the change it should have made in 2014 when the danger from 
EasyJet and Ryanair was already obvious.
Besides, its plans may yet be scuppered by a veto from Italy’s notoriously intransigent trade unions.
Still, this is Alitalia, and it will always have another opportunity to save itself. Won’t it?
OPINION: Is this Alitalia 's final last chance? E As Alitalia faces yet another round of cost cutting, just how 
many last chances for salvation can one airline ....
Load-Date: March 27, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches April seat sale
Ryanair launches April seat sale
Business World (Digest)
March 24, 2017 Friday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 135 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair have today announced a seat sale for April with 60,000 seats on over 250 routes. The prices start from 
€9.99.   The €9.99 seat sale fares are available now but must be booked before midnight (24:00hrs) tonight and can 
only be found on the Ryanair.com website.   Ryanair’s Chief Marketing Officer, Robin Kiely says, "Spring is in the 
air – and you could be too, jetting off on a low fare sun or city break with Ryanair. We’ve put 60,000 seats on sale 
from just €9.99 for travel on over 250 routes in April. And there are still a limited number of €5 seats left over from 
our last sale. These April sale seats are only available for booking until midnight tonight so customers should log on 
to the Ryanair.com website and book today – you’d be an April Fool to miss out."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: April 5, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches Birmingham winter 2017 schedule
Ryanair launches Birmingham winter 2017 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 21, 2017 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 345 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched its Birmingham winter 2017 schedule, with 21 routes in total which will deliver 
2.2m customers p.a. and support 1,650 jobs at Birmingham Airport.
Body
Ryanair&#39;s Birmingham winter 2017 schedule will deliver: 21 winter routes including Alicante (6 x weekly), 
Barcelona (daily) & Malaga (5 x daily); 99 weekly flights; 2.2m customers p.a.; and 1,650 "on-site" jobs p.a.Ryanair 
will continue to connect Birmingham with major business and leisure centres on high frequency, low fare services 
including Dublin (5 daily), Madrid (4 weekly) and Alicante (6 weekly) on the lowest fares, making Ryanair the ideal 
choice for UK business and leisure customers.Ryanair&#39;s Birmingham summer 2017 schedule is attracting 
record bookings, with more frequencies to sun destinations for summer family holidays, including 3 new routes to 
Chania (2 weekly), Girona (3 weekly) and Porto (2 weekly) which commence at the end of March, on lower fares as 
Ryanair passes on lower fuel costs, and an even better customer experience, as it continues to roll out its "Always 
Getting Better" improvements.Ryanair&#39;s Robin Kiely said: "We are pleased to launch our 2017 Birmingham 
winter schedule, with 21 routes including Alicante, Barcelona and Dublin, which will help deliver 2.2m customers 
p.a. and support 1,650 jobs at Birmingham Airport. These routes are now on sale on the Ryanair.com website as 
we continue to grow our Birmingham traffic, tourism and jobs.We are also pleased to report record bookings on our 
Birminghamsummer 2017 schedule and UK customers and visitors can look forward to even lower fares so 
there&#39;s never been a better time to book a low fare flight on Ryanair. 
We urge all customers who wish to book their holidays to do so now on the Ryanair.com website or mobile app, 
where they can avail of the lowest fare air travel to and from Birmingham.To celebrate the launch of our 
Birmingham winter 2017 schedule we are releasing seats for sale across our European network from just 
GBP19.99 for travel in October and November which are available for booking until midnight Thursday (23 Mar). 
Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid 
missing out."
Load-Date: March 27, 2017
Ryanair launches Birmingham winter 2017 schedule
End of Document
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Health Care Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Health Care Stocks See Mixed 
Fortunes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 20, 2017 Monday 10:27 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 233 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.1% higher at 127.36 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Monday morning. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Cellectis (CLLS), a French genome engineering company, 2.4% higher, 
followed by DBV Technologies (DBVT), a French clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, up by 1.8% and Grifols 
(GRFS), a Spanish company engaged in the healthcare sector, also 1.8% higher. Nokia (NOK), a technology 
investor, was 1.3% higher. 
In the UK, low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY) and gold miner Randgold Resources (GOLD), were both 1.1% higher, 
followed by CRH (CRH), a building materials company, up by 0.9% and Unilever (UL), a Dutch consumer goods 
company, 0.8% higher. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Deutsche Bank - Global Registered Shares (DB), down by 2.9% and 
Edap (EDAP), a French medical devices developer, 1.5% lower and Logitech (LOGI), a Swiss hardware and 
software products developer, down by 1.1%. Nabriva Therapeutics (NBRV), an Austria-based clinical-stage 
biopharmaceutical company, was 1.0% lower. 
And, in the UK, Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) was 1.0% lower, education company Pearson (PSO) was down by 
0.7% and Trinity Biotech (TRIB), a manufacturer of medical diagnostic products, was 0.6% lower. BP (BP), an oil 
and gas production company, was down by 0.5%. 
Price: 24.13, Change: +0.22, Percent Change: +0.92
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Health Care Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
End of Document
Comerica Bank Sells 3,561 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Comerica Bank Sells 3,561 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
March 20, 2017 Monday 9:41 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 732 words
Byline: Mark Dietrich
Body
Mar 20, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Comerica Bank decreased 
its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 16.3% during the fourth quarter, according to its 
most recent Form 13F filing with the SEC. The firm owned 18,273 shares of the company's stock after selling 3,561 
shares during the period. Comerica Bank's holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc were worth $1,534,000 at the end of 
the most recent reporting period. 
 A number of other hedge funds and other institutional investors also recently made changes to their positions in the 
stock. Neuberger Berman Group LLC raised its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 27.3% in the third quarter. 
Neuberger Berman Group LLC now owns 2,670,534 shares of the company's stock worth $200,370,000 after 
buying an additional 572,293 shares during the last quarter. Whitebox Advisors LLC acquired a new stake in 
Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter worth approximately $8,457,000. Todd Asset Management LLC raised 
its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 12.7% in the third quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now owns 331,598 
shares of the company's stock worth $24,880,000 after buying an additional 37,461 shares during the last quarter. 
Quantbot Technologies LP raised its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 236.6% in the third quarter. Quantbot 
Technologies LP now owns 1,656 shares of the company's stock worth $124,000 after buying an additional 1,164 
shares during the last quarter. Finally, Manning ...pier Advisors LLC raised its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 2.8% 
in the third quarter. Manning ...pier Advisors LLC now owns 1,938,000 shares of the company's stock worth 
$145,406,000 after buying an additional 52,262 shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge 
funds own 42.80% of the company's stock. Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) opened at 84.78 
on Monday. The company has a 50 day moving average price of $82.25 and a 200 day moving average price of 
$79.74. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $66.09 and a one year high of $89.67. The company has a 
market cap of $20.92 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 15.67 and a beta of 0.72.   Your IP Address:  A number of 
analysts have commented on the company. Zacks Investment Research raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' 
rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Tuesday, December 13th. Bank of America Corp lowered Ryanair Holdings plc 
from a 'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' rating in a report on Tuesday, January 3rd. Deutsche Bank AG raised 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a report on Monday, February 13th. Canaccord Genuity 
assumed coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on Thursday, January 26th. They issued a 'buy' rating for the 
company. Finally, Barclays PLC reissued a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on Tuesday, 
January 10th. One analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have given a hold rating and six have assigned 
a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings plc presently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and an 
average price target of $95.33. About Ryanair Holdings plc Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding 
Comerica Bank Sells 3,561 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving 
short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. 
Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger 
service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food 
and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get 
the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for 
Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news 
and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily 
email 
newsletter[3]. 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: March 20, 2017
End of Document
INTERVIEW: Lance Gokongwei, chief executive, Cebu Pacific;  E Cebu Pacific president and chief executive 
Lance Gokongwei is not one for long anecdotes or colour....
INTERVIEW: Lance Gokongwei, chief executive, Cebu Pacific;  E Cebu 
Pacific president and chief executive Lance Gokongwei is not one for long 
anecdotes or colourful quotes, but gets straight to the point, the epitome of 
a sharp businessman.
Flight International
March 20, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 1961 words
Body
Cebu Pacific chief executive Lance Gokongwei is not one for long anecdotes or colourful quotes, but gets straight to 
the point, the epitome of a sharp businessman.
He eschews massive orders signed in the presence of presidents, and never ventures into unfamiliar territory 
merely to irritate competitors. Instead, the unassuming and soft-spoken businessman calls himself “a conservative 
guy”. His measured approach is exactly why the low-cost carrier has consistently been the Philippines’ top-
performing airline.
Where peers saw falling profits and increasing yield pressure in 2016, Cebu Pacific had a record year. The airline 
has yet to release its financials, but Gokongwei says it was “the best year ever” in terms of revenue and profitability, 
with passenger numbers crossing 19 million for the first time.
The only time the 20-year-old carrier posted a loss was in 1998, its second year of operations. That was an 
especially bad year for the airline, with a McDonnell Douglas DC-9 aircraft crashing into Mount Sumagaya during a 
Manila-Cagayan domestic service, killing all 99 passengers and five crew. Cebu Pacific was also in the red in 2008, 
but was profitable before extraordinary items.
Cebu Pacific has done so well that it has overtaken Philippine Airlines (PAL) as the country’s dominant player, 
accounting for more than 50% of the domestic market. With low fares and a young fleet, it unlocked latent demand 
for air travel within an archipelago where ferries and buses have traditionally been the main modes of transport, 
making true its “every Juan can fly” slogan.
Bryan van der Beek
INTERVIEW: Lance Gokongwei, chief executive, Cebu Pacific;  E Cebu Pacific president and chief executive 
Lance Gokongwei is not one for long anecdotes or colour....
Gokongwei was first called to pilot the airline when he was barely 30. His father, prominent tycoon John 
Gokongwei, had bought Cebu Pacific in 1995, after a failed bid for a stake in PAL when it underwent privatisation.
Speaking with FlightGlobal at the airline’s headquarters overlooking Manila’s Ninoy Aquino International airport, the 
younger Gokongwei recalls the early days when Cebu Pacific operated four used DC-9s on domestic services out 
of Manila. It offered fares that were lower than PAL’s and did “extremely well” until oil prices started creeping up in 
2003. By then, PAL had updated its fleet and could also compete on price.
“At that time we also saw models like Ryanair, EasyJet and AirAsia, working with brand new aircraft and using the 
internet as a distribution method,” says the 49-year-old Filipino Chinese. “We decided we had to reach a strategic 
inflection. Do we change the model to copy them? Or do we become a full-service carrier?
“We made a major step in 2004 to re-fleet and really go hardcore LCC. Since then we have been very successful, 
becoming the largest domestic carrier in 2006, and we’ve gone from strength to strength.”
Gokongwei was on the cover of Flight Airline Business in 2012. Since then, Cebu Pacific has expanded its fleet by 
a third to 58 aircraft, entered the much-debated long-haul low-cost segment, and launched a separate turboprop 
unit – Cebgo – which operates with its own air operator’s certificate.
The decision to go long-haul was not an easy one. Cebu Pacific studied the business case for a year before it took 
the plunge in 2013, leasing four Airbus A330-300s from US lessor CIT.
“The Philippines is a unique case because we have 10 million Filipinos working outside the country, and point-to-
point works well when you have large concentrations of population on both sides. Given the over three million 
Filipinos in the Middle East and large concentration of Filipino emigrants in Australia, we thought a point-to-point 
proposition would work,” Gokongwei says.
CHALLENGING JOURNEY
He concedes that the long-haul journey has been “more challenging than anticipated” and “an education” for the 
carrier. Unlike the rest of Cebu Pacific’s business, the unit has yet to attain consistent profitability, being in the black 
only during certain months.
As it launched its A330s into the Middle East, the Gulf carriers added substantial capacity while PAL competed 
head-on, offering single-class A330s on the same routes. It also had to learn that unlike short-haul, the main 
distribution channel for long-haul, with workers’ tickets generally covered by their employment contracts, is through 
agents – not the internet.
“It was quite a bloodbath for the first couple of years and it’s still not easy now,” Gokongwei admits. Experience built 
up over the past few years, and lower fuel prices, have helped, and services to the Middle East are now “near 
profitability”. It has also had to make some quick decisions, including ceasing operations to Damman just five 
months after launch.
Alongside services to Riyadh, Kuwait, Doha and Dubai, its other long-haul route goes to Sydney. Gokongwei says 
the route has seen the “Cebu Pacific effect” with 70-80% growth in the market, the bulk of which has gone to the 
carrier.
“At the same time we didn’t see Qantas or PAL’s numbers decline, so we think we’re able to stimulate the market. 
That said, the costs into Sydney are quite high and the yields are fairly low.”
His strategy for long-haul remains to go where the Filipinos are – the Middle East, Australia and eventually the 
USA. While the airline has talked about going into Melbourne and Honolulu, Gokongwei says this will not be a 
priority for the next 12 months, as it works to build on and stabilise its existing long-haul network.
INTERVIEW: Lance Gokongwei, chief executive, Cebu Pacific;  E Cebu Pacific president and chief executive 
Lance Gokongwei is not one for long anecdotes or colour....
It also needs more widebody aircraft – it has six A330s, with another coming in May – to upgauge its domestic and 
regional services. The widebodies are key to dealing with severe slot constraints at Manila.
Gokongwei views infrastructure constraints as one of the airline’s largest challenges in the coming years. Manila 
has one of the region’s most congested gateways and handles only 40 aircraft movements an hour, making it near 
impossible to get additional slots. The only bright spot in this situation is that rivals with large aircraft orders have 
been unable to fly into the capital city despite ASEAN open skies.
For years, the government has dithered on a second airport, and has yet to even decide a location. Thus, local 
carriers expect no reprieve from Manila’s slot shortage for years to come. Air navigation service NATS has also 
been tasked with raising aircraft movements at the airport by optimising the configuration of its intersecting 
runways.
Gokongwei says the squeeze at Manila has put a brake on his carrier’s growth. Together with Cebgo, it now 
operates 58 aircraft comprising 40 A320-family jets, seven A330s and 11 ATR 72s. It also has 32 A321neos and 13 
ATR 72s on order.
Cebu Pacific’s strategy is to optimise precious Manila slots by using larger aircraft where it makes sense. It has 
disposed of six Airbus A319s, with the last four to be sold by the end of the year, and its 230-seat A321neos will 
start arriving from the fourth quarter. When its final A330 on order arrives in May, it will operate longer domestic 
sectors as well as thicker regional ones such as Tokyo, Singapore and Hong Kong. Cebgo is also replacing its ATR 
72-500s with 78-seater -600s, being the first carrier in the world to operate the high-density variant.
RATIONAL APPROACH
The airline ceded some market share to PAL in 2016, with a net fleet increase of just one aircraft as it awaits its 
A321neos. It expects to lose more ground throughout 2017, until the new-generation jet comes on board. This, the 
rational businessman says, is a sacrifice he is willing to make to put Cebu Pacific in a better position in the long 
term. Growth will, however, come quickly in 2018, when it will add 12 A321neos.
Besides just upgauging aircraft, Cebu Pacific will develop a five-hub strategy outside of Manila. The plan is to 
launch more international services out of Cebu, Clark, Davao, Iloilo and Caticlan, bypassing congested Manila and 
“connecting the dots”.
Asked about the next stage of growth, Gokongwei says that with the A321neos and ATR 72s on order, the carrier’s 
fleet will grow to close to 90 within the next five years, doubling its passenger throughput. The incoming aircraft, 
with more seats and better fuel efficiency, will also help lower costs.
It also wants to add new-generation widebodies for use into the USA, and will issue a request for proposals towards 
the end of 2017. Types to be considered include the Airbus A350 and the Boeing 787 and 777.
Gokongwei does not worry that services to the US West Coast will unduly stretch the low-cost carrier, or prove too 
trying for its passengers. He notes that PAL will make a strong push into the USA once its A350s arrive, and that 
carriers from China, Taiwan and South Korea have all enticed Filipinos with attractive fares for one-stop services to 
America.
“We think that there’s a really good opportunity there, with our philosophy being to go where the Filipinos are,” he 
says. “There are so many Filipinos on the West Coast. There must be at least a few hundred thousand in San 
Francisco and almost a million in Los Angeles.”
The carrier will consider a two-class configuration on its new-generation widebodies. Its current A330-300s are 
among the tightest in the market with 436 seats, and there are no plans to reconfigure any of these jets.
INTERVIEW: Lance Gokongwei, chief executive, Cebu Pacific;  E Cebu Pacific president and chief executive 
Lance Gokongwei is not one for long anecdotes or colour....
“We pride ourselves on being conservative in terms of fleet introduction plans. Every single order we have, we know 
where we are going to base them, and that approach has paid off. This is especially since we have no intentions of 
being an operator outside of the Philippines.”
Cebu Pacific has doggedly focused on being the top performer in its home market, and is now the third largest low-
cost operator in Southeast Asia, behind Lion Air and AirAsia. Unlike its overseas counterparts, the carrier has no 
plans to deviate. Gokongwei says Cebu Pacific will not set up shop overseas, being too late to the game, nor has it 
any desire to contemplate a full-service arm to break PAL’s grip on the premium market.
Asked about the airline’s recipe for success, he says: “We’re very clear about what we are. We’re an LCC and we 
try and keep our operations as simple and repeatable as possible.”
It invests heavily in technology, being the first airline in the Philippines to offer internet booking. It is also developing 
booking and customer service functions for mobile and social media platforms.
He believes one of Cebu Pacific’s greatest strengths is its strong brand loyalty. Despite fierce competition with other 
LCCs in the market, it consistently gets better yields and loads.
The airline is well known for its witty slogans, flash sales and pocket-friendly prices. Flight attendants get 
passengers to play simple games in flight where winners can receive Cebu Pacific merchandise. On a recent flight, 
passengers who produced a picture of their spouse received a free Cebu Pacific pouch.
Cebu Pacific now has close to 4,000 employees, many of whom are young and ambitious. When FlightGlobal 
visited its headquarters, most employees were wearing bright yellow Cebu Pacific T-shirts. The open-concept office 
exudes a fun and creative atmosphere, with bright murals on the walls, and even a board game printed on the 
boardroom’s 24-seat conference table.
Gokongwei believes that the Philippines remains an attractive market with a growing economy, and his aim is to 
ensure that the Cebu Pacific brand maintains its dominance in the country.
“Going forward we have to continue to adapt as a business, but the basic model of providing affordable fares to our 
passengers remains. There’s still plenty of underlying demand. The country is growing at 7% a year and people’s 
aspirations to travel will be 1.5-2 times that,” he says.
“We have rebranded Cebu Pacific to try and be more representative of a more global and confident Philippines, 
which feels at ease with the entire world. That’s where we are headed.”
Load-Date: March 22, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Higher as Banks See Mixed Fortunes
European ADRs Edge Higher as Banks See Mixed Fortunes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 17, 2017 Friday 10:46 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 243 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.3% higher at 127.51 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Friday morning. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Telefonica (TEF), a Spanish telecommunications group, 3.0% higher, 
followed by Ascendis Pharma (ASND), a Danish clinical stage biopharmaceutical company, up by 2.9% and AB 
InBev (BUD), a Belgian brewing company, up by 2.7%. Nokia (NOK), a technology investor, was 2.2% higher. 
In the UK, Akari Therapeutics (AKTX), a development-stage biopharmaceutical company, was 7.6% higher, 
followed by Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), up by 2.5% and Amarin (AMRN), a biopharmaceutical company, also 
2.5% higher. Low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY) was up by 2.1%. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Nabriva Therapeutics (NBRV), an Austria-based clinical-stage 
biopharmaceutical company, 1.3% lower, followed by Deutsche Bank - Global Registered Shares (DB), 1.0% lower. 
Forward Pharma (FWP), a Danish biopharmaceutical company, and Sequans Communications (SQNS), a French 
developer of chipset solutions, were both 0.8% lower. 
And, in the UK, Avadel (AVDL), a specialty pharmaceutical company, was 3.0% lower, followed by Amec Foster 
Wheeler (AMFW), a global engineering conglomerate, down by 2.2% and Pearson (PSO), an education company, 
1.0% lower. Trinity Biotech (TRIB), a manufacturer of medical diagnostic products, was 0.7% lower.
Price: 11.33, Change: +0.10, Percent Change: +0.89
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair announces first flights to Ukraine
Ryanair announces first flights to Ukraine
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 17, 2017 Friday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 114 words
Highlight: Irish low-cost airline Ryanair is set to launch four new routes between Ukraine's Kiev and Eindhoven, 
London, Manchester and Stockholm from October 2017.
Body
The airline will operate three weekly flights to Eindhoven, The Netherlands; five weekly flightsto London Stansted, 
UK; three weekly flightsto Manchester, England; and four weekly flightsto Stockholm Skavsta, Sweden.Ryanair is 
also planning to launch flights to or from Lviv, a city in western Ukraine.Ryanair chief commercial officer David 
O'Brien said:"Ryanair is pleased to announce that low fares have arrived in Ukraine, our 34th country of operation, 
with 4 new Kiev routes to Eindhoven, London, Manchester and Stockholm, beginning in October, which will help 
deliver 250,000 annual customers at Kiev Airport."We will also commence flights to/from Lviv, our 2nd airport in 
Ukraine."
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Rally as Banks Advance
European ADRs Rally as Banks Advance
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 16, 2017 Thursday 10:33 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 218 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 1.0% higher at 126.96 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Thursday morning. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Talend (TLND), a provider of open source integration solutions, 6.0% 
higher, followed by Banco Santander (SAN) and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA), 4.2% and 4.0% higher, 
respectively. voxelJet (VJET), a German three-dimensional printer manufacturer, was 2.4% higher. 
In the UK, low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY) was 3.6% higher, followed by Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays and 
Lloyds Banking Group, 2.4%, 2.1% and 2.1% higher, respectively. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Nabriva Therapeutics (NBRV), an Austria-based clinical-stage 
biopharmaceutical company, 2.0% lower, followed by Trivago (TRVG), which operates an online hotel search 
platform, 0.8% lower and ASML - New York Shares (ASML), a Dutch developer of semiconductor equipment 
systems, 0.7% lower. 
And, in the UK, Avadel (AVDL) , a pharmaceutical company, was 0.9% lower, followed by Adaptimmune 
Therapeutics (ADAP), a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, down by 0.8% and Amarin (AMRN), a 
biopharmaceutical company, and Luxfer (LXFR), a materials technology company, both 0.6% lower.
Price: 30.89, Change: +2.12, Percent Change: +7.37
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
End of Document
Guggenheim Capital LLC Lowers Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Guggenheim Capital LLC Lowers Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
March 16, 2017 Thursday 5:18 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 778 words
Byline: Latisha Jones
Body
Mar 16, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Guggenheim Capital LLC cut its 
position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 20.7% during the fourth quarter, Holdings 
Channel[1] reports. The institutional investor owned 61,575 shares of the company's stock after selling 16,119 
shares during the period. Guggenheim Capital LLC's holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc were worth $5,127,000 as of 
its most recent SEC filing. 
 Other hedge funds and other institutional investors also recently bought and sold shares of the company. Bremer 
Trust National Association acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter worth 
approximately $202,000. Creative Planning raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 293.5% in the third 
quarter. Creative Planning now owns 5,521 shares of the company's stock worth $414,000 after buying an 
additional 4,118 shares during the period. Fox Run Management L.L.C. acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc during the third quarter worth approximately $240,000. Bank of Montreal Can raised its stake in shares 
of Ryanair Holdings plc by 8.8% in the third quarter. Bank of Montreal Can now owns 69,980 shares of the 
company's stock worth $5,250,000 after buying an additional 5,654 shares during the period. Finally, 1st Global 
Advisors Inc. raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 8.6% in the third quarter. 1st Global Advisors Inc. 
now owns 5,002 shares of the company's stock worth $375,000 after buying an additional 394 shares during the 
period. Institutional investors own 42.80% of the company's stock. Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) opened at 80.20 on Thursday. The company has a market capitalization of $19.79 billion, a 
price-to-earnings ratio of 14.88 and a beta of 0.72. The firm has a 50 day moving average price of $82.27 and a 200 
day moving average price of $79.63. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $66.09 and a 52 week high of 
$89.67.   This story was first reported by Daily Political and is the property of of Daily Political. If you are viewing this 
story on another website, it was illegally stolen and reposted in violation of U.S. ...ternational trademark ...pyright 
legislation. The legal version of this story can be read at http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/03/16/guggenheim-
capital-llc-lowers-position-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay.html.  A number of analysts recently commented on RYAAY 
shares. Kepler Capital Markets lowered Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on 
Friday, February 10th. Barclays PLC reiterated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on 
Tuesday, January 10th. Canaccord Genuity started coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on Thursday, 
January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating on the stock. Zacks Investment Research upgraded Ryanair Holdings plc from 
a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Tuesday, November 29th. Finally, Deutsche Bank AG upgraded Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a report on Monday, February 13th. One investment analyst has 
rated the stock with a sell rating, five have assigned a hold rating and six have given a buy rating to the company. 
Guggenheim Capital LLC Lowers Position in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Ryanair Holdings plc presently has an average rating of 'Hold' and a consensus target price of $95.33. Ryanair 
Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited 
(Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes 
between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to 
see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and 
insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - 
Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for 
Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter[4]. [ 1]:            
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: March 16, 2017
End of Document
Empire can strike back in Ryanair RACING TRADER Bill Esdailepreviews the Ryanair Chase and Pertemps 
Final
Empire can strike back in Ryanair; RACING TRADER Bill Esdailepreviews 
the Ryanair Chase and Pertemps Final
City A.M.
March 16, 2017 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: SPORT; Pg. 29
Length: 361 words
Body
THIS time last week there was still genuine talk of a soft ground Cheltenham Festival. Now there is every chance 
that clerk of the course Simon Claisse will be forced to water this evening - ahead of Gold Cup day tomorrow - if no 
rain materialises.
That is bad news for fans of Ryanair Chase (2.50pm) favourite Un De Sceaux, who has shown all his best form with 
plenty of cut in the ground.
He was beaten both times he encountered good ground last season, admittedly finishing a decent runnerup on both 
occasions, and just doesn't seem as effective on a sound surface.
The step up to this trip will certainly help, but I'm prepared to take him on at the prices and side with EMPIRE OF 
DIRT.
Gordon Elliott has already taken this year's Festival by storm and has made no secret of his wishes to run this 
horse in the Gold Cup, for which he still holds an entry.
He is owned by Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary, who is yet to win the race he sponsors and remains desperate to do 
so.
The likes of First Lieutenant and Don Cossack have failed in the past, but I'm confident that Empire Of Dirt can 
deliver on the big stage this afternoon at 10/3 with 188BET.
He won last season's Festival Plate here, when trained by Colm Murphy, and seems to have improved again for the 
switch to Elliott.
Empire can strike back in Ryanair RACING TRADER Bill Esdailepreviews the Ryanair Chase and Pertemps 
Final
A couple of stunning weight carrying performances back home in Ireland were followed last time by a narrow defeat 
in the Irish Gold Cup.
In fact, a bigger threat could come from another O'Leary-owned runner in the shape of the ultra-consistent Sub 
Lieutenant.
He too comes here in rude health and it would be no surprise if both saw off the challenge of Un De Sceaux.
The one potential fly in the ointment is Alan King's former winner Uxizandre who ran so well behind Un De Sceaux 
last time after a monster layoff.
He is refitted with the cheekpieces that helped him spread-eagle the field here two years ago, but whether he still 
retains that sort of ability requires a monster leap of faith.
There also has to be a doubt as to whether he can step up from his decent reappearance, but he is unquestionably 
a danger if he does.
POINTERS Empire Of Dirt (already advised e/w at 9/1) 2.50pm Cheltenham
Graphic
 
Empire Of Dirt powered up the Cheltenham hill to win 12 months ago
Load-Date: March 16, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives Consensus Rating of 'Hold' from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives Consensus Rating of 'Hold' from 
Analysts
Watchlist News
March 15, 2017 Wednesday 4:41 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 774 words
Byline: Mark Dietrich
Body
Mar 15, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) has been given an average recommendation of 'Hold' by the thirteen analysts that are currently 
covering the stock. One investment analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have assigned a hold rating 
and six have given a buy rating to the company. The average 12-month price target among brokerages that have 
updated their coverage on the stock in the last year is $95.00.  A number of equities analysts have recently 
commented on RYAAY shares. 
Kepler Capital Markets cut shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Friday, 
February 10th. Barclays PLC reaffirmed a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on Tuesday, 
January 10th. Canaccord Genuity started coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on Thursday, 
January 26th. They issued a 'buy' rating on the stock. Zacks Investment Research raised shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Tuesday, November 29th. Finally, Deutsche Bank AG 
raised shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a report on Monday, February 13th. A 
number of institutional investors have recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. OLD National Bancorp 
IN boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.9% in the third quarter. OLD National Bancorp IN now 
owns 5,143 shares of the company's stock valued at $386,000 after buying an additional 97 shares in the last 
quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 12.7% in the third 
quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now owns 331,598 shares of the company's stock valued at $24,880,000 
after buying an additional 37,461 shares in the last quarter. Quantbot Technologies LP boosted its position in 
shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 236.6% in the third quarter. Quantbot Technologies LP now owns 1,656 shares 
of the company's stock valued at $124,000 after buying an additional 1,164 shares in the last quarter. Manning 
...pier Advisors LLC boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 2.8% in the third quarter. Manning 
...pier Advisors LLC now owns 1,938,000 shares of the company's stock valued at $145,406,000 after buying an 
additional 52,262 shares in the last quarter. Finally, World Asset Management Inc boosted its position in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc by 6.6% in the third quarter. World Asset Management Inc now owns 17,045 shares of the 
company's stock valued at $1,279,000 after buying an additional 1,050 shares in the last quarter. 42.80% of the 
stock is currently owned by institutional investors.  'Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives Consensus Rating of 
'Hold' from Analysts' was reported by Watch List News and is the property of of Watch List News. If you are reading 
this news story on another domain, it was illegally stolen and republished in violation of international trademark and 
copyright law. The original version of this news story can be viewed at http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Receives Consensus Rating of 'Hold' from Analysts
holdings-plc-ryaay-receives-consensus-rating-of-hold-from-analysts/1160263.html.  Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded down 0.31% on Wednesday, reaching $80.35. The company had a trading volume of 
142,093 shares. The stock has a market cap of $19.83 billion, a PE ratio of 14.91 and a beta of 0.72. Ryanair 
Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $66.09 and a 12 month high of $89.67. The stock has a 50-day moving average 
price of $82.38 and a 200-day moving average price of $79.62.  Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair 
Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low 
fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities 
connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and 
the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter 
your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair 
Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter[2]. [ 1]:            
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: March 15, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches two new routes from London Stansted to Kiev
Ryanair launches two new routes from London Stansted to Kiev
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 15, 2017 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 296 words
Highlight: Ryanair, an airline, has launched two new routes from London Stansted to Kiev, five times weekly, and 
to Lviv, twice weekly, its first UK-Ukraine services, as part of its extended London Stansted winter 2017 schedule.
Body
Ryanair celebrated its new Ukraine routes by releasing seats for sale at prices starting from just GBP24.99 for 
travel between October 29, 2017 and December 10, 2017. These low fare seats are available for booking on the 
Ryanair.com website until midnight Thursday March 16, 2017.Ryanair&#39;s Head of Communications Robin Kiely 
said: "We are pleased to announce 2 new winter routes from London Stansted to Kiev and Lviv starting this October 
as part of our expanded London Stansted winter 2017 schedule. These new routes, our first to Ukraine, which will 
go on sale on the Ryanair.com website later today, will be ideal for both business and leisure customers, as we 
connect London with Ukraine&#39;s key cities.Ryanair customers can choose from 127 London Stansted routes 
next winter, including 4 other new routes to Aalborg, Frankfurt, Oradea and Pardubice, and UK customers and 
visitors can look forward to even lower fares when they make advance bookings for their summer or winter 
holidays, so there&#39;s never been a better time to book a low fare flight with Ryanair.Seats on our new Ukraine 
routes and on sale from just GBP24.99 for travel between October 29, 2017 and December 10, 2017 which are 
available for booking until midnight Thursday March 16, 2017. Since these amazing low fares will be snapped up 
quickly, customers should log onto 
www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."Mats Sigurdson, Stansted Airport&#39;s Aviation Director, said: "Kiev and 
Lviv are two fantastic new additions to London Stansted&#39;s route network and they are our first ever direct 
services to these cities from the airport. We&#39;re delighted that Ryanair has announced these new connections 
as they provide even greater choice for both business and leisure passengers in the region."
Load-Date: March 21, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair unveils Manchester 2017 winter schedule
Ryanair unveils Manchester 2017 winter schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 15, 2017 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 534 words
Highlight: Ryanair has unveiled its Manchester 2017 winter schedule, with four new routes to Cologne, Frankfurt, 
Kiev and Seville, a new winter service to Naples, extra flights to Budapest and Eindhoven and 40 routes in total.
Body
Ryanair&#39;s Manchesterwinter 2017 schedule delivery includes: 4 new routes to: Cologne (daily), Frankfurt (6 
wkly), Kiev (3 wkly) & Seville (2 wkly); New winter service: Naples (2 wkly); Extra flights to: Budapest (5 wkly) & 
Eindhoven (6 wkly); 40 routes in total; 221 weekly flights; 4.5m customers p.a. (+300,000); and 3,375"on-site" jobs 
p.a.Ryanair will continue to connect Manchester with major business and leisure centres on high frequency, low 
fare services including Dublin (5 daily) and Brussels (2 daily), with better timings and lower fares, making Ryanair 
the ideal choice for English business and leisure customers.Ryanair&#39;s Manchestersummer 2017 schedule is 
attracting record bookings, with more frequencies to destinations for summer family holidays, lower fares as 
Ryanair passes on lower fuel costs, and an even better customer experience, as it continues to roll out its "Always 
Getting Better" improvements.Ryanair&#39;s Chief Marketing Officer Kenny Jacobs said: "We are pleased to 
launch our 2017 Manchesterwinter schedule, which includes 4 new routes to Cologne, Frankfurt, Seville and Kiev, 
our first UK-Ukraine route, a new winter service to Naples and 39 routes in total, which will deliver 4.5m customers 
p.a. and support 3,375jobs at Manchester Airport. 
These new routes will go on sale on the Ryanair.com website today as we continue to grow our Manchester traffic, 
tourism and jobs.We are also pleased to report record bookings on our Manchester summer 2017 schedule and 
customers can look forward to even lower fares so there&#39;s never been a better time to book a low fare flight on 
Ryanair. We urge all customers who wish to book their holidays to do so now on the Ryanair.com website or mobile 
app, where they can avail of the lowest fare air travel to and from Manchester.The UK Government last week 
missed a golden tourism opportunity in the Spring Budget by retaining APD. We urge the Government to follow the 
Irish example and scrap APD entirely to allow traffic, tourism and jobs to grow and ensure UK regional airports can 
compete and attract more business, particularly with in the face of Brexit uncertainty. Taxing tourists at the point of 
entry simply makes countries less attractive to airlines and visitors, particularly for regional UK airports.To celebrate 
the launch of our Manchester winter 2017 schedule we are releasing seats for sale across our European network 
from just GBP9.99, which are available for booking until midnight Thursday (16 Mar). Since these amazing low 
Ryanair unveils Manchester 2017 winter schedule
prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."Manchester 
Airport Commercial Director, Stephen Turner said: "It is great to see Ryanair launch its winter programme with the 
addition of four new routes from Manchester Airport. I am sure all four destinations will prove popular with the 22m 
passengers in our catchment area that spans north to the Scottish Borders, south to the Midlands, west to Wales 
and Merseyside, and east across Yorkshire. Ryanair continues to grow and grow from Manchester, the global 
gateway for the North, and we look forward to working closely with them as they deliver more and more 
passengers."
Load-Date: March 21, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Launches Entry To Ukraine With 4 New Kiev Routes
Ryanair Launches Entry To Ukraine With 4 New Kiev Routes
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
March 15, 2017 Wednesday 10:55 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 156 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Europe's no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) Wednesday announced its 
entry to Ukrain. The airline said it will operate 4 new Kiev routes to Endhoven, London, Manchester and Stockholm 
from October. As per the current plan it will deliver 250 thousand  customers at Kiev airport.   There will be 3 weekly 
flights to Eindhoven and 5 weekly flights to London Standsted, 3 weekly flights to Manchester and 4 weekly flights 
to Stockholm Skavsta. There will be 15 weekly flights for the winter schedule.   The airline plans to operate flights to 
and from Lviv, the second airport in Ukraine with more routes and lower fares. The prices starts at 19.99 euros for 
travel in October and November for those who book until midnight Thursday.   Ryanair's Chief Commercial Officer, 
David O'Brien said, 'Ryanair is pleased to announce that low fares have arrived in Ukraine, our 34th country of 
operation.'      
Load-Date: March 15, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Launches Entry To Ukraine With 4 New Kiev Routes
Ryanair Launches Entry To Ukraine With 4 New Kiev Routes
RTT News (United States)
March 15, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 169 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Europe's no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) Wednesday announced its entry to 
Ukrain. The airline said it will operate 4 new Kiev routes to Endhoven, London, Manchester and Stockholm from 
October. As per the current plan it will deliver 250 thousand customers at Kiev airport.
There will be 3 weekly flights to Eindhoven and 5 weekly flights to London Standsted, 3 weekly flights to 
Manchester and 4 weekly flights to Stockholm Skavsta. There will be 15 weekly flights for the winter schedule.
The airline plans to operate flights to and from Lviv, the second airport in Ukraine with more routes and lower fares. 
The prices starts at 19.99 euros for travel in October and November for those who book until midnight Thursday.
Ryanair's Chief Commercial Officer, David O'Brien said, "Ryanair is pleased to announce that low fares have 
arrived in Ukraine, our 34th country of operation."
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2017 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 15, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair to begin Ukrainian flights Ryanair has disclosed plans to start serving Ukraine in October.
Ryanair to begin Ukrainian flights; Ryanair has disclosed plans to start 
serving Ukraine in October.
Flight International
March 15, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 168 words
Body
Ryanair has disclosed plans to start serving Ukraine in October.
The budget carrier says it will operate four routes to Kiev Borispol. Ukraine's capital will be served thrice weekly 
from Eindhoven, five times per week from London Stansted, thrice weekly from Manchester and four times per 
week from Stockholm Skavsta.
Ryanair estimates it will carry 250,000 passengers per annum across the new routes.
FlightGlobal schedules data shows that Ukraine International Airlines operates flights from Stockholm Arlanda to 
Kiev Borispol.
No airline operates between the Ukrainian capital and Eindhoven, though KLM and UIA link Borispol with another 
Dutch airport, Amsterdam Schiphol.
Will Air operates to Kiev Zhulhany from London Luton, while Borispol is served by UIA from Gatwick and British 
Airways from Heathrow. There are no scheduled operations to Kiev from Manchester.
Ukraine becomes the 34th country in Ryanair's network.
This story has been updated to specify whether each Kiev service is to Borispol or Zhulhany
Load-Date: March 15, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair to begin Ukrainian flights; Ryanair has disclosed plans to start serving Ukraine in October.
Ryanair to begin Ukrainian flights; Ryanair has disclosed plans to start 
serving Ukraine in October.
Flight International
March 15, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 152 words
Body
Ryanair has disclosed plans to start serving Ukraine in October.
The budget carrier says it will operate four routes to Kiev Borispol. Ukraine's capital will be served thrice weekly 
from Eindhoven, five times per week from London Stansted, thrice weekly from Manchester and four times per 
week from Stockholm Skavsta.
Ryanair estimates it will carry 250,000 passengers per annum across the new routes.
FlightGlobal schedules data shows that Ukraine International Airlines operates flights from Stockholm Arlanda to 
Kiev Borispol.
No airline operates between the Ukrainian capital and Eindhoven, though KLM and UIA link Borispol with another 
Dutch airport, Amsterdam Schiphol.
Wizz Air operates to Kiev Zhulhany from London Luton, while Borispol is served by UIA from Gatwick and British 
Airways from Heathrow. There are no scheduled operations to Kiev from Manchester.
Ukraine becomes the 34th country in Ryanair's network.
Load-Date: July 11, 2017
End of Document
Festival: Cheltenham jumps to it
Festival: Cheltenham jumps to it
Financial Times (London, England)
March 15, 2017 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 120 words
Byline: John Murray Brown
Body
Buveur D'Air under jockey Noel Fehily, right, takes the Champion Hurdle on the opening day of the Cheltenham 
Festival yesterday, when the JP McManus-owned 5-1 shot beat Petit Mouchoir, owned by Ryanair chief Michael 
O'Leary.
The owners are set to dominate this year's four-day meeting, with Mr O'Leary's Gigginstown House Stud entering 
161 horses, while Mr McManus, the former bookmaker, has 160.
Last year just four owners won 15 of the festival's 28 races, raising concerns National Hunt racing was going the 
way of flat racing.
However, Tobefair, current joint favourite for the Pertemps Hurdle tomorrow, is owned by a syndicate of 17 locals at 
a pub in north Wales - and was originally given to one of them for nothing.
Load-Date: March 14, 2017
End of Document
Ryan heir to turn former D4 consulate into luxury home
Ryan heir to turn former D4 consulate into luxury home
Sunday Business Post
March 14, 2017
Copyright 2017 Post Publications Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Length: 368 words
Byline: Tom Lyons
Highlight: Shane Ryan has finally applied to turn the former French consulate into a residence
Body
Shane Ryan, son of the late Ryanair founder Tony Ryan, has finally applied to turn the former French consulate at 
36 Ailesbury Road in Dublin 4 into a residence.
Ryan acquired the historic building in late 2013 for about €4 million but has only now revealed plans to expand the 
building and convert it into a six bedroom luxury home.
The house, which was built in 1920, is a protected structure that requires extensive investment to turn it from offices 
into a home. Ryan has appointed Jamie Fobert Architects to handle the design.
The London-based architects are best known for working with Donatella Versace as well as for their design of the 
Givenchy flagship boutique store in Paris and interiors work for Harrods in London.
In filings with Dublin City Council the architects describe the interiors of 36 Ailesbury Road as having been 
“ravaged” by decades of use as offices by the French Embassy. The architects say they intend to preserve the 
historic exteriors of the building while adding a “set of pavilions set into a rich garden landscape.” A swimming pool 
is planned for under the house along with a family room and garage. Natural terracotta tiles and solid bronze are 
planned for the walls of extensions to the existing house.
A freestanding bronze pavilion is intended to be set into the house’s garden. Luciano Giubbilei, who has created 
award-winning gardens at the Chelsea Flower Show, has been lined up to landscape the property, which sits on a 
one-acre site.
Ryan’s new home was built in 1920 for Nell Humphreys whose brother Michael O’Rahilly (who styled himself The 
O’Rahilly) died trying to lead a breakout by rebel forces from the Moore Street area in 1916.
During the War of Independence, Michael Collins held meetings there.
Ryan heir to turn former D4 consulate into luxury home
The house had a secret room where Cathal Brugha stayed which went undiscovered during the Anglo-Irish war 
despite raids by the Black and Tans.
In 1922 the Free State raided the house after being tipped off about the room and in the shootout that followed, 
Ernie O’Malley, the IRA assistant chief of staff, was badly wounded and a Free State soldier was killed.
In 1968, the French government converted the house into offices to support its embassy at 53 Ailesbury Road.
Load-Date: March 14, 2017
End of Document
INTERVIEW: Israeli transport minister Yisrael Katz Last year, an analysis revealed that fewer than half of Israeli 
government decisions were actually implemente....
INTERVIEW: Israeli transport minister Yisrael Katz; Last year, an analysis 
revealed that fewer than half of Israeli government decisions were actually 
implemented, even if partially implemented decisions were included. One 
decision, though, passes the test with flying colours: the 2013 undertaking 
to open Israel's skies.
Flight International
March 14, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 962 words
Body
Last year, an analysis revealed that fewer than half of Israeli government decisions were actually implemented, 
even if partially implemented decisions were included. One decision, though, passes the test with flying colours: the 
2013 undertaking to open Israel's skies.
That led to an open-skies deal with the European Union, but the implications are much wider.
It was Israel's transport minister, Yisrael Katz, who initiated the open-skies policy. He not only believed in it but was 
ready to fight the expected opposition from the three Israeli airlines: El Al, Israir and Arkia.
"I knew that this will be a fierce battle, and it was," Katz tells FlightGlobal. "The Israeli airlines, the workers' unions – 
all came to my office with forecasts of a disaster that will leave many thousands unemployed, and Israel with no 
Israeli airline."
The move to open skies resulted in a two-day strike by the Israeli airlines, but the only concession made by the 
government was an agreement to cover 97.5% of the security measures taken by the nation's carriers.
In 2016, some 17.9 million passengers passed through Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion airport, across about 128,000 flights.
International passenger numbers totalled 17.3 million, up 11% from 2015, while cross-border flights numbered 
some 121,000, an increase of 8.2%.
"The open-skies agreement was implemented gradually, and this year there are no limits on flights to and from 
Israel, except of course the capacity of the airports," says Katz. While the agreement was specifically signed with 
INTERVIEW: Israeli transport minister Yisrael Katz Last year, an analysis revealed that fewer than half of Israeli 
government decisions were actually implemente....
the EU, he notes that "Air India, Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific are planning to fly to Israel this year" while 
"Hainan Airlines is also operating on the Bejing-Tel Aviv route and other Chinese airlines might join from Shanghai".
Low-cost airlines such as EasyJet and Ryanair are meanwhile expanding their operations in the Israeli market – 
Ryanair will operate 19 routes to the country this winter – and there are signs that more traffic will come from North 
and South America. “We have an air agreement with the US and, even in this excellent market, I can say that more 
US airlines may come," says Katz. "The effect is surprising even for me [who] believed in the good effects of the 
open-skies policy."
Israeli airlines carried 6.75 million passengers in 2016, which is 39% of all travellers passing through Ben Gurion 
airport and an increase of 14% on the previous year. "The numbers tell the full story: the Israeli airlines not only 
were not harmed, they kept their slice of the cake – but now it is a bigger slice," says Katz.
El Al was privatised in 2008 but is still considered the national carrier. With this unofficial title and a strong lobby 
behind it, El Al has led the fight against the open-skies policy.
The airline has warned of a "black future" under open skies. Still, in 2015 is signed a contract to buy nine Boeing 
787s, taking options for 13 more.
"Very soon, the Israeli airlines came to the conclusion that the open skies benefit them, but they will have to 
compete with more frequencies and better equipment," says Katz. "El Al, for example, formed its 'Up' brand that is 
an answer to the low-cost carriers that began to fly to Israel, and these flights are full."
Another major effect of the open-skies policy is the accelerated construction of a second international airport in 
southern Israel near Eilat, the Red Sea resort. Ramon airport is named after Israeli astronaut Ilan Ramon, who died 
in the Columbia Space Shuttle disaster in 2003, and his son Asaf, a pilot in the Israeli air force who died in the 
crash of a Lockheed Martin F-16A in 2009.
International flights to Eilat currently use the Israeli air force base in Ovda, some 40km from the city. "Starting at the 
end of this year, the new airport will begin to operate and will boost further the effects of the open-skies policy," 
says Katz.
Airlines that operate to Ovda enjoy an exemption from all airport charges. "This will continue when the new airport 
is operated," Katz reveals.
The exemption has had a major effect on the international traffic that lands in southern Israel. Last year, 128,000 
passengers went through the civil terminal at Ovda. "This number represents a traffic increase of 112%," says Katz.
He adds that the prices of international flights operated from Ovda have plummeted. "The prices to destinations in 
Africa went down by 69%, the prices to eastern Europe by 29%, and to western Europe by 18%. I expect that this 
trend will continue and even intensify, when the operation will move to the new airport."
Katz says Ramon airport will contain separate sections for domestic and international passengers. Amenities will 
include duty-free shops, restaurants and other services.The terminal will occupy 30,000m2 and will have 32 check-
in counters.
"The runway and taxiway are 3,600m long," says the Israel Airports Authority. "The runway is 45m wide, with an 
additional 7.5m on both sides of the runway shoulders. The tarmac will include 16 aprons for general aviation, nine 
aprons for large and widebody aircraft, and additional parking for turboprop and smaller planes."
While Ramon will mainly handle flights to Eilat, Israel needs a "complementary airport" as annual passenger 
numbers at Ben Gurion are set to reach 20 million in a few years' time, Katz argues. "We have managed to get the 
approval of the Israeli air force and will use its Ramat David air base for this purpose. This airport will be called Galil 
as it is in the Israeli Galilee region and will also be a state-of-the-art facility."
INTERVIEW: Israeli transport minister Yisrael Katz Last year, an analysis revealed that fewer than half of Israeli 
government decisions were actually implemente....
Given the target of rapidly growing traffic on international flights to Israel, the need for new airports is obvious. "We 
anticipate more airlines to operate in the Israeli market and I want to be ready for this traffic," says Katz.
Load-Date: March 15, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair adds more flights for Ireland 's Welsh World Cup Qualifier
Ryanair adds more flights for Ireland's Welsh World Cup Qualifier
Business World (Digest)
March 14, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 117 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
It was announced today that Ryanair will add more World Cup specials from Dublin to Cardiff for Ireland’s World 
Cup 2018 qualifier against Wales in October, following demand from Irish football fans.     Ryanair has now 
scheduled six special flights between Dublin and Cardiff for Ireland v Wales (9 October) between 8th and 10th 
October.   Ryanair’s Chief Marketing Officer, Robin Kiely says, "After the rugby team were slayed by the dragons 
last week, the nation’s hopes rest with the soccer Boys in Green. We are pleased to add even more extra flights for 
the big match in Cardiff and all on the lowest fares, which are available for booking now on the Ryanair.com 
website."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: March 27, 2017
End of Document
UPDATE: Berlin Airport Strikes Extended Until Early Wednesday
UPDATE: Berlin Airport Strikes Extended Until Early Wednesday
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 13, 2017 Monday 7:44 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 323 words
Body
 A strike by ground crew workers at Berlin's two commercial airports has been extended until early Wednesday, the 
Verdi union announced.
The initial strike over pay by around 2,000 workers had been called until early Tuesday.
The walkout began at 0300 GMT on Monday and affects both of the German capital's airports - Schoenefeld in the 
south-east and Tegel in the north-west.
It will now last until around 0400 GMT on Wednesday.
At Tegel, 465 flights are expected to stay grounded on Monday while at Schoenefeld, 195 flights are due to be 
cancelled, a spokesman for the two airports said.
"We are asking all passengers to check with their airline about the status of their flight before they start their trip," a 
statement on a website for the airports said.
Passengers due to land in Berlin have also been affected.
Airlines are re-routing some flights to the eastern German cities of Dresden and Leipzig, with Easyjet landing at the 
former and Ryanair the latter. Passengers are then being bussed to Berlin, two hours away.
Berlin's mayor Michael Mueller, who was due to make a three-day trip to Moscow, also had his journey interrupted. 
A replacement flight for the mayor was organized from Dresden airport.
An earlier strike on Friday caused hundreds of flight cancellations in Berlin.
"The Verdi strikes mean our capital Berlin has been completely cut off to air travel for days. Not only are the airports 
being damaged but also the image of Germany," said airport association chief Ralph Beisel.
UPDATE: Berlin Airport Strikes Extended Until Early Wednesday
Trade union Verdi is pushing for a pay increase and better working hours for its members, arguing that their 
workload is increasing given the growing number of passengers at Berlin's ageing airports and a greater focus on 
security.
Strike leader Enrico Ruemker said he was waiting for a new offer from management.
A new combined airport for Berlin near Schoenefeld is expected to open in 2019 after years of delays and 
wrangling.
By Marion van der Kraats
Load-Date: March 14, 2017
End of Document
UPDATE: Berlin Airport Strikes Extended Until Early Wednesday
UPDATE: Berlin Airport Strikes Extended Until Early Wednesday
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
March 13, 2017 Monday 7:44 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 323 words
Body
 A strike by ground crew workers at Berlin's two commercial airports has been extended until early Wednesday, the 
Verdi union announced.
The initial strike over pay by around 2,000 workers had been called until early Tuesday.
The walkout began at 0300 GMT on Monday and affects both of the German capital's airports - Schoenefeld in the 
south-east and Tegel in the north-west.
It will now last until around 0400 GMT on Wednesday.
At Tegel, 465 flights are expected to stay grounded on Monday while at Schoenefeld, 195 flights are due to be 
cancelled, a spokesman for the two airports said.
"We are asking all passengers to check with their airline about the status of their flight before they start their trip," a 
statement on a website for the airports said.
Passengers due to land in Berlin have also been affected.
Airlines are re-routing some flights to the eastern German cities of Dresden and Leipzig, with Easyjet landing at the 
former and Ryanair the latter. Passengers are then being bussed to Berlin, two hours away.
Berlin's mayor Michael Mueller, who was due to make a three-day trip to Moscow, also had his journey interrupted. 
A replacement flight for the mayor was organized from Dresden airport.
An earlier strike on Friday caused hundreds of flight cancellations in Berlin.
"The Verdi strikes mean our capital Berlin has been completely cut off to air travel for days. Not only are the airports 
being damaged but also the image of Germany," said airport association chief Ralph Beisel.
UPDATE: Berlin Airport Strikes Extended Until Early Wednesday
Trade union Verdi is pushing for a pay increase and better working hours for its members, arguing that their 
workload is increasing given the growing number of passengers at Berlin's ageing airports and a greater focus on 
security.
Strike leader Enrico Ruemker said he was waiting for a new offer from management.
A new combined airport for Berlin near Schoenefeld is expected to open in 2019 after years of delays and 
wrangling.
By Marion van der Kraats
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair demand clarity from Britain on post-Brexit flying
Ryanair demand clarity from Britain on post-Brexit flying
Business World (Digest)
March 13, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 567 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Airlines need Britain to hurry up with plans for aviation following its vote to leave the European Union, because the 
deadline for preparing flight schedules in a post-Brexit Europe is fast approaching, a Ryanair executive said on 
Friday.
European Union-based airlines have the right to fly to and from any country in the bloc or even within other member 
states thanks to the single aviation market created in the 1990s.
The Brexit vote means Britain has to renegotiate that access to Europe's skies. Luton-based easyJet is already 
seeking a new operating licence in another EU member state, with Ireland or Malta seen as likely choices as their 
official language is English.
But another issue is the flight schedules for summer 2019, when Britain is due to be out of the EU, and which 
carriers will start planning in a year's time, Ryanair marketing officer Kenny Jacobs said.
"The message to London is please give us urgency and give us real options. And don't give us options in 18 
months' time because we're planning the summer of 2019 in 365 days," Jacobs told Reuters on the sidelines of the 
ITB travel fair.
"If there isn't a solution that's known and workable then it becomes a factor for us and every other airline planning 
their summer 2019 capacity," he said.
Ryanair is already curtailing growth in Britain as a result of the Brexit vote, limiting capacity expansion to 6% this 
year against more than 10% in previous years.
Ryanair demand clarity from Britain on post-Brexit flying
Prime Minister Theresa May has said she wants Britain to be free of European Court of Justice (ECJ) influence, 
ruling out access to the single aviation market using models employed by Norway and Switzerland. Those 
agreements include accepting the role of the ECJ as the final arbiter in disputes.
Totis Kotsonis, partner at international law firm Eversheds Sutherland, told Reuters one option could be for Britain 
and the EU to agree a different resolution mechanism, which does not involve the ECJ having oversight over the 
UK's compliance with EU aviation laws.
Ryanair's Jacobs said upcoming elections in France and Germany could hold up the process, while talks would 
likely be messy and emotionally charged.
Other industry experts say some countries may not be keen to give Britain the same level of access to their skies as 
before, after carriers like easyJet took market share in their regions.
"(They) could be happy not to see some of the UK-based airlines having all the traffic rights to serve Europe," 
Alexandre de Juniac, head of airlines association IATA and former CEO of Air France-KLM, said last month.
Kotsonis of Eversheds Sutherland said he was confident Britain could come to a solution, pointing out it already 
complies with existing EU aviation laws and has no plans to change that the day it leaves the EU.
"We'd be starting discussions while already fully compliant with EU aviation laws. Also, the UK's importance in the 
wider European and global aviation market should not be underestimated. That should count in our favour," he said.
It is also unclear at this stage whether Britain will seek to remain a member of the European Aviation Safety 
Agency, which oversees safety legislation. Leaving that body could impact firms providing maintenance or the 
certification of aircraft parts.
Britain's government has so far said only that the aviation sector is crucial to the country and that it will seek "liberal 
access". (Reuters)
Source:www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: March 24, 2017
End of Document
Berlin airport strikes extended until early Wednesday
Berlin airport strikes extended until early Wednesday
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
March 13, 2017 Monday 12:19 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 337 words
Byline: Marion van der Kraats and Gioia Forster in Berlin
Dateline: Berlin (dpa) - 
Body
A strike by ground crew workers at Berlin's two commercial airports has been extended until early Wednesday, the 
Verdi union announced.
The initial strike over pay by around 2,000 workers had been called until early Tuesday.
The walkout began at 4 am (0300 GMT) on Monday and affects both of the German capital's airports - Schoenefeld 
in the south-east and Tegel in the north-west.
It will now last until around 5 am (0400 GMT) on Wednesday.
At Tegel, 465 flights are expected to stay grounded on Monday while at Schoenefeld, 195 flights are due to be 
cancelled, a spokesman for the two airports said.
"We are asking all passengers to check with their airline about the status of their flight before they start their trip," a 
statement on a website for the airports said.
Passengers due to land in Berlin have also been affected.
Airlines are re-routing some flights to the eastern German cities of Dresden and Leipzig, with Easyjet landing at the 
former and Ryanair the latter. Passengers are then being bussed to Berlin, two hours away.
Berlin's mayor Michael Mueller, who was due to make a three-day trip to Moscow, also had his journey interrupted. 
A replacement flight for the mayor was organized from Dresden airport.
An earlier strike on Friday caused hundreds of flight cancellations in Berlin.
Berlin airport strikes extended until early Wednesday
"The Verdi strikes mean our capital Berlin has been completely cut off to air travel for days. Not only are the airports 
being damaged but also the image of Germany," said airport association chief Ralph Beisel.
Trade union Verdi is pushing for a pay increase and better working hours for its members, arguing that their 
workload is increasing given the growing number of passengers at Berlin's ageing airports and a greater focus on 
security.
Strike leader Enrico Ruemker said he was waiting for a new offer from management.
A new combined airport for Berlin near Schoenefeld is expected to open in 2019 after years of delays and 
wrangling.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Mark Meadows Tel: +49 30 2852-31472; <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: March 14, 2017
End of Document
Berlin airport strikes extended until early Wednesday
Berlin airport strikes extended until early Wednesday
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
March 13, 2017 Monday 12:21 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 339 words
Body
       By Marion van der Kraats, dpa   BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - A strike by ground crew workers at Berlin's two 
commercial airports has been extended until early Wednesday, the Verdi union announced.  The initial strike over 
pay by around 2,000 workers had been called until early Tuesday.  The walkout began at 4 am (0300 GMT) on 
Monday and affects both of the German capital's airports - Schoenefeld in the south-east and Tegel in the north-
west. 
 It will now last until around 5 am (0400 GMT) on Wednesday.  At Tegel, 465 flights are expected to stay grounded 
on Monday while at Schoenefeld, 195 flights are due to be cancelled, a spokesman for the two airports said.  'We 
are asking all passengers to check with their airline about the status of their flight before they start their trip,' a 
statement on a website for the airports said.  Passengers due to land in Berlin have also been affected.   Airlines 
are re-routing some flights to the eastern German cities of Dresden and Leipzig, with Easyjet landing at the former 
and Ryanair the latter. Passengers are then being bussed to Berlin, two hours away.  Berlin's mayor Michael 
Mueller, who was due to make a three-day trip to Moscow, also had his journey interrupted. A replacement flight for 
the mayor was organized from Dresden airport.  An earlier strike on Friday caused hundreds of flight cancellations 
in Berlin.  'The Verdi strikes mean our capital Berlin has been completely cut off to air travel for days. Not only are 
the airports being damaged but also the image of Germany,' said airport association chief Ralph Beisel.  Trade 
union Verdi is pushing for a pay increase and better working hours for its members, arguing that their workload is 
increasing given the growing number of passengers at Berlin's ageing airports and a greater focus on security.  
Strike leader Enrico Ruemker said he was waiting for a new offer from management.  A new combined airport for 
Berlin near Schoenefeld is expected to open in 2019 after years of delays and wrangling.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: March 13, 2017
End of Document
Berlin Airport Strike Grounds Hundreds Of Flights
Berlin Airport Strike Grounds Hundreds Of Flights
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 13, 2017 Monday 1:00 PM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 179 words
Body
 The strike of ground staff at two major airports in Berlin resulted in the cancellation of more than 660 flights on 
Monday.
465 flights were cancelled at Berlin Tegel in the north, while 195 were grounded at Berlin Shonefeld in the south, 
resulting in a total halt of the flights services at the two airports. Air Berlin, easyJet, Lufthansa, Germanwings and 
Ryanair are the most affected airlines.
The workers are demanding a pay hike to EUR12 per hour from the current wages of EUR11 per hour. The 25-hour 
strike will continue until 0500 on 15 March. More than 2,000 ground staff are participating in the strike.
The airport management offered an increase of 10 centS per hour for next four years, but later offered 8% increase 
for the next three years.
Tigel airport is around eight kilometer away from the city of Berlin and handles more than 21 million passengers an 
year,while Berlin Shonefeld, situated in the southeast of Berlin, handles more nearly 12 million passengers per 
year.
The airports said there could be action restriction in air traffic even after the strike.
Load-Date: March 14, 2017
End of Document
Berlin Airport Strike Grounds Hundreds Of Flights
Berlin Airport Strike Grounds Hundreds Of Flights
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
March 13, 2017 Monday 1:00 PM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 179 words
Body
 The strike of ground staff at two major airports in Berlin resulted in the cancellation of more than 660 flights on 
Monday.
465 flights were cancelled at Berlin Tegel in the north, while 195 were grounded at Berlin Shonefeld in the south, 
resulting in a total halt of the flights services at the two airports. Air Berlin, easyJet, Lufthansa, Germanwings and 
Ryanair are the most affected airlines.
The workers are demanding a pay hike to EUR12 per hour from the current wages of EUR11 per hour. The 25-hour 
strike will continue until 0500 on 15 March. More than 2,000 ground staff are participating in the strike.
The airport management offered an increase of 10 centS per hour for next four years, but later offered 8% increase 
for the next three years.
Tigel airport is around eight kilometer away from the city of Berlin and handles more than 21 million passengers an 
year,while Berlin Shonefeld, situated in the southeast of Berlin, handles more nearly 12 million passengers per 
year.
The airports said there could be action restriction in air traffic even after the strike.
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
End of Document
Berlin Airport Strike Grounds Hundreds Of Flights
Berlin Airport Strike Grounds Hundreds Of Flights
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
March 13, 2017 Monday 4:14 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 188 words
Body
       BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - The strike of ground staff at two major airports in Berlin resulted in the cancellation of 
more than 660 flights on Monday.  465 flights were cancelled at Berlin Tegel in the north, while 195 were grounded 
at Berlin Shonefeld in the south, resulting in a total halt of the flights services at the two airports. Air Berlin, easJet, 
Lufthansa, Germanwings and Ryanair are the most affected airlines.   The workers are demanding a pay hike to 12 
euros per hour from the current wages of 11 euros per hour. The 25-hour strike will continue until 5 am on March 
15th. More than 2000 ground staff are participating in the strike.   The airport management offered an increase of 
10 cent per hour for next four years, but later offered 8 percent increase for the next three years.   Tigel airport is 
around eight kilometer away from the city of Berlin and handles more than 21 million passengers an year,while 
Berlin Shonefeld, situated in the southeast of Berlin, handles more nearly 12 million passengers per year.  The 
airports said there could be action restriction in air traffic even after the strike.      
Load-Date: March 13, 2017
End of Document
Berlin Airport Strike Grounds Hundreds Of Flights
Berlin Airport Strike Grounds Hundreds Of Flights
RTT News (United States)
March 13, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 200 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The strike of ground staff at two major airports in Berlin resulted in the cancellation of more than 660 
flights on Monday.
465 flights were cancelled at Berlin Tegel in the north, while 195 were grounded at Berlin Shonefeld in the south, 
resulting in a total halt of the flights services at the two airports. Air Berlin, easJet, Lufthansa, Germanwings and 
Ryanair are the most affected airlines.
The workers are demanding a pay hike to 12 euros per hour from the current wages of 11 euros per hour. The 25-
hour strike will continue until 5 am on March 15th. More than 2000 ground staff are participating in the strike.
The airport management offered an increase of 10 cent per hour for next four years, but later offered 8 percent 
increase for the next three years.
Tigel airport is around eight kilometer away from the city of Berlin and handles more than 21 million passengers an 
year,while Berlin Shonefeld, situated in the southeast of Berlin, handles more nearly 12 million passengers per 
year.
The airports said there could be action restriction in air traffic even after the strike.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2017 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 13, 2017
End of Document
Trump's drive for self-sufficiency leaves oil price vulnerable
Trump's drive for self-sufficiency leaves oil price vulnerable
Financial Times (London, England)
March 11, 2017 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: INSIDE LONDON; Pg. 17
Length: 670 words
Byline: Neil Collins
Body
Both literally and metaphorically, oil drives modern economies. It is so central to what we do that its price is the 
biggest determinant of prosperity, yet despite the efforts of economists everywhere, it has proved almost impossible 
to predict.
This week the cost of a barrel of crude suddenly lurched down out of its trading range. The move quite 
overwhelmed the cheerful comments from analysts responding to Royal Dutch Shell's $7.25bn sale of its tar sands 
business in Canada. Partly thanks to the weak pound, Shell shares yield 7.2 per cent, a dividend that looks 
significantly safer after this deal.
Whether it is truly sustainable or whether we holders should consider our investment as an annuity, with assets 
being sold to maintain the income, depends above all on the oil price. It's fine, says the International Energy 
Agency, dismissing any talk of peak demand for oil. Indeed, the agency's latest analysis forecasts that the cutbacks 
in exploration following the price crash from $100 point to a supply crunch in 2020.
Oh no, it's not fine at all, says a study from the Grantham Institute . The game is up for oil, with demand peaking 
that year, thanks to falling costs of solar and wind power.
Well, maybe. The oil price does look vulnerable, but more because of Trumpenomics' policy aim of US 
selfsufficiency rather than through any lack of demand. We might conclude that Shell has seen the light in escaping 
Trump's drive for self-sufficiency leaves oil price vulnerable
the glue of Canada's tar sands, a chronically marginal business, while mass adoption of electric cars is the future 
that never arrives. And as BP has shown with Macondo, there's a deal of ruin in a big oil company.
All aboard the paper train
David Higgins has been updating us on his vision for HS2 - that magnificent money-eating machine about to carve 
its way through the middle of England. He wants to see "everyday low prices" on the railway, along the lines of 
easyJet or Ryanair. So, rather as you book that holiday trip to Alicante well in advance before the price goes up, 
you will book an exciting high-speed ride from London to Birmingham on a specific day months away.
Almost in the same breath Sir David, the chairman of the project, dreams of "making Crewe within commuting 
distance of London, Birmingham and Manchester". This is about as likely as Birmingham becoming a tourist 
destination and is typical of the muddled thinking that gave us HS2 in the first place.
Unlike, say, Heathrow's third runway, this project appears unstoppable , despite evidence that it is not worth doing. 
Even if it can be built for its budgeted £22bn, the public accounts committee doubts whether it offers value for 
money. As £1.4bn has been spent already and building is yet to begin, that budget looks like a fantasy figure.
Sir David tells us that rail fares will be published this year, another paper exercise that is rather easier than actual 
construction. The prices might allow us to work out how much of the capital cost is wasted. They are unlikely to 
show that commuting from Birmingham, let alone Crewe, is a viable option.
A Gilbertian drama
It's unkind to suggest 1,000 jobs will go from Standard Aberdeen to save one, but to make financial sense of this 
merger, the first figure may not be too far from the outcome. Fortunately for Scotland, most of the redundancies will 
be abroad, some as far away as London. Others, such as Standard Life's departing head of equities David 
Cumming , will have more time to listen to or even appear on radio.
The merged company aspires to be viewed the way the market rates Schroders, where the family control allows it 
to take a long view. Perhaps Standard Life's 1.5m small shareholders, who have held since flotation, might provide 
a similar sheet anchor. In the meantime, the new company has to demonstrate that two chief executives - Martin 
Gilbert and Keith Skeoch - are better than one and why it needs to have more than £600bn under management to 
make a decent living.
A full list of Neil Collins' financial interests can be found at www.ft.com/collinsportfolio 
Load-Date: March 10, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Higher as Pharma Stocks Rally
European ADRs Edge Higher as Pharma Stocks Rally
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 9, 2017 Thursday 10:49 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 252 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.63% higher at 123.69 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Thursday morning. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Oasmia Pharmaceutical (OASM), a Sweden-based pharmaceutical 
company, 8.1% higher, followed by Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA), a Spanish financial group, up by 
4.5%, and TiGenix (TIG), a Belgium-based biopharmaceutical company, up by 3.0%. Telefonaktiebolaget LM 
Ericsson (ERIC), a telecommunications company, was 2.8% higher. 
In the UK, low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY) was 3.1% higher, followed by Trinity Biotech (TRIB), a manufacturer of 
medical diagnostic products, 2.0% higher and Unilever (UL), a Dutch consumer goods company, up by 1.7%. 
Amarin (AMRN), a biopharmaceutical company, was 1.5% higher. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by CGG (CGG), a manufacturer of geophysical equipment, down by 
4.4%, followed by STMicroelectronics - New York Shares (STM), an Italian semiconductor company, 2.4% lower 
and Forward Pharma (FWP), a Danish biopharmaceutical company, down by 1.5%. Edap (EDAP), a French 
medical devices developer, was 1.4% lower. 
And, in the UK, Fly Leasing (FLY), an aircraft leasing company, was 2.0% lower, followed by oil and gas production 
company, Royal Dutch Shell - B Shares (RDS.B), down by 1.3% and diversified mining company BHP Billiton 
(BBL), also down by 1.3% and Avadel (AVDL), a specialty pharmaceutical company, down by 1.2%. 
Price: 1.76, Change: -0.09, Percent Change: -4.92
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
European ADRs Edge Higher as Pharma Stocks Rally
End of Document
Ryanair ’s new Irish winter 2017 routes on sale
Ryanair’s new Irish winter 2017 routes on sale
Business World (Digest)
March 09, 2017 Thursday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 172 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair have today launched their winter sale 2017 schedule on sale on the Ryanair.com website, allowing 
customers to book their low-cost flights all the way out to March 2018.   Ryanair’s Irish winter 2017 schedule 
includes a new Dublin route to Naples, two new Dublin winter services to Tours & Valencia and one new Kerry 
route to Berlin. 
To celebrate the launch of their winter 2017 schedule Ryanair are releasing seats for sale across their European 
network from €19.99, which are available for booking until midnight Thursday (9 Mar).
Commenting on the winter schedule, Ryanair’s Chief Marketing Officer, Robin Kiely said, "Irish customers and 
visitors can now book flights out as far as March 2018 and can look forward to even lower fares, so there’s never 
been a better time to book a low fare flight on Ryanair. We urge all customers who wish to book their holidays to do 
so now on the Ryanair.com website or mobile app, where they can avail of the lowest fare air travel to and from 
Ireland."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: March 21, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair releases new UK winter 2017 routes
Ryanair releases new UK winter 2017 routes
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 8, 2017 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 325 words
Highlight: Ryanair, a passenger airline, has released its new UK winter 2017 routes on sale on the its website, 
allowing customers to book their low cost flights all the way out to March 2018.
Body
Ryanair.com website allows customers to book their low cost flights all the way out to March 2018.Ryanair&#39;s 
UK winter 2017 schedule includes: 2 new Aberdeen routes to Alicante & Malaga (2 weekly); 3 new Glasgow routes 
to Krakow (2 weekly), Madrid (4 weekly) & Frankfurt (daily); 13 new Edinburgh routes to Budapest (2 weekly), 
Baden-Baden (2 weekly), Carcassonne (2 weekly), Hamburg (2 weekly), Eindhoven (3 weekly), Katowice (2 
weekly), Nantes (2 weekly), Prague (3 weekly), Szczecin (2 weekly), Toulouse (2 weekly), Treviso (3 weekly), 
Valencia (3 weekly) & Wroclaw (2 weekly); 2 new Leeds Bradford routes to Murcia (2 weekly) & Wroclaw (2 
weekly); 4 new London Stansted routes to Aalborg (3 weekly), Oradea (3 weekly), Pardubice (3 weekly) & Frankfurt 
(2 daily); and 3 new Manchester routes to Cologne (daily), Frankfurt (6 weekly) & Seville (2 weekly).Ryanair 
customers can book their summer or winter 2017 holidays on even lower fares as Ryanair passes on lower fuel 
costs, and can look forward to an even better customer experience, as it continues to roll out its "Always Getting 
Better" improvements.Ryanair&#39;s Robin Kiely said: "We are pleased to release our new UK winter 2017 seats 
for sale on the Ryanair.com website, which includes over 25 new routes. 
UK customers and visitors can now book flights out as far as March 2018 and can look forward to even lower fares, 
so there&#39;s never been a better time to book a low fare flight on Ryanair. We urge all customers who wish to 
book their holidays to do so now on the Ryanair.com website or mobile app, where they can avail of the lowest fare 
air travel to and from the UK.To celebrate the launch of our winter 2017 schedule we are releasing seats for sale 
across our European network from just GBP19.99, which are available for booking until midnight Thursday (9 Mar). 
Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log on here and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: March 14, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches new Dublin to Naples winter route
Ryanair launches new Dublin to Naples winter route
Business World (Digest)
March 08, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 148 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
It was announced today that Ryanair has launched a new route from Dublin to Naples with a twice weekly service 
beginning in October as part of its winter 2017 schedule, which will go on sale on the Ryanair.com website 
tomorrow.    Ryanair celebrated its new route by releasing seats from Dublin to Naples at prices starting from just 
€29.99 for travel in October and November. These low fare seats will be available for booking from Wednesday (8 
Mar) until midnight Thursday (9 Mar), only on the Ryanair.com website.   Ryanair’s Head of Communications, Robin 
Kiely says, "Our Dublin summer 2017 schedule is attracting record bookings and Irish customers and visitors can 
look forward to even lower fares when they make advance bookings for their summer or winter holidays, so there’s 
never been a better time to book a low fare flight to or from Dublin."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: March 20, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Lower as Pharma Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
European ADRs Edge Lower as Pharma Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 7, 2017 Tuesday 11:08 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 220 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.68% lower at 123.61 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Tuesday morning.
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by CGG (CGG),  a manufacturer of geophysical equipment, 5.9% lower, 
followed by Cellectis (CLLS), a French genome engineering company, down by 4.6% and Novartis (NVS), a Swiss 
company which manufactures healthcare products, 2.4% lower. DBV Technologies (DBVT), a French clinical-stage 
biopharmaceutical company, was 2.3% lower. 
In the UK, Shire (SHPG), a biopharmaceutical company, was 2.7% lower, followed by GW Pharmaceuticals 
(GWPH), down by 1.7% and low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY), 1.5% lower. Gold mining company Randgold 
Resources (GOLD) was 1.5% lower.
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Oasmia Pharmaceuticals (OASM), up by 10.2%, followed by TiGenix 
(TIG), a Belgium-based biopharmaceutical company, 4.1% higher and Criteo (CRTO), a French technology 
company, up by 2.9%. Telecom Italia - Savings (TI.A) was up by 0.6%. 
And, in the UK, Akari Therapeutics (AKTX) was 3.0% higher, followed by Midatech Pharma (MTP), 1.1% higher and 
Amec Foster Wheeler (AMFW), a global engineering conglomerate, up by 0.5%. Avadel (AVDL), a specialty 
pharmaceutical company, was 0.2% higher.
Price: 1.72, Change: +0.06, Percent Change: +3.46
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
End of Document
Marshall Wace LLP Decreases Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Marshall Wace LLP Decreases Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
March 7, 2017 Tuesday 3:06 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 845 words
Byline: Mark Dietrich
Body
Mar 07, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Marshall Wace LLP 
decreased its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 79.4% during the fourth quarter, Holdings 
Channel[1] reports. The institutional investor owned 10,164 shares of the company's stock after selling 39,080 
shares during the period. Marshall Wace LLP's holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc were worth $846,000 at the end of 
the most recent quarter. 
 Other large investors also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the company. Capital Research Global 
Investors boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 17.2% in the third quarter. Capital Research Global 
Investors now owns 8,373,690 shares of the company's stock valued at $628,278,000 after buying an additional 
1,230,762 shares during the period. Capital International Investors boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings 
plc by 1.6% in the third quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 4,380,192 shares of the company's stock 
valued at $328,646,000 after buying an additional 70,214 shares during the period. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 33.7% in the third quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
now owns 3,330,852 shares of the company's stock valued at $249,913,000 after buying an additional 838,744 
shares during the period. Neuberger Berman Group LLC boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 
27.3% in the third quarter. Neuberger Berman Group LLC now owns 2,670,534 shares of the company's stock 
valued at $200,370,000 after buying an additional 572,293 shares during the period. Finally, Manning ...pier 
Advisors LLC boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 2.8% in the third quarter. Manning ...pier 
Advisors LLC now owns 1,938,000 shares of the company's stock valued at $145,406,000 after buying an 
additional 52,262 shares during the period. 42.80% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds. 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) opened at 80.75 on Tuesday. The firm's 50-day moving average price 
is $82.95 and its 200 day moving average price is $79.25. The company has a market capitalization of $19.92 
billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 14.91 and a beta of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $66.09 and 
a 12-month high of $89.67.  This article was reported by Watch List News and is owned by of Watch List News. If 
you are reading this article on another publication, it was illegally stolen and republished in violation of U.S. 
...ternational trademark and copyright legislation. The legal version of this article can be viewed at 
http://www.watchlistnews.com/marshall-wace-llp-decreases-stake-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay/1150917.html.  A 
number of analysts recently issued reports on RYAAY shares. Zacks Investment Research raised Ryanair Holdings 
plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Tuesday, November 29th. Bank of America Corp cut 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' rating in a research report on Tuesday, January 
3rd. Berenberg Bank started coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Friday, November 11th. 
Marshall Wace LLP Decreases Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
They set a 'buy' rating for the company. Canaccord Genuity started coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a research 
report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. Finally, Deutsche Bank AG raised 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research report on Monday, February 13th. One 
research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have assigned a hold rating and six have given a buy 
rating to the company. Ryanair Holdings plc has an average rating of 'Hold' and a consensus target price of $95.33. 
Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair 
Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point 
routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various 
ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to 
see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and 
insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - 
Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for 
Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter[4]. [ 1]:       
     http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: March 7, 2017
End of Document
Stocks Close Modestly Lower For Second Straight Day - U.S. Commentary
Stocks Close Modestly Lower For Second Straight Day - U.S. Commentary
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
March 7, 2017 Tuesday 10:17 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 615 words
Body
       WASHINGTON (dpa-AFX) - Stocks turned in a relatively lackluster performance during trading on Tuesday 
before eventually ending the session modestly lower. With the drop on the day, the major averages added to the 
losses posted in the previous session.  The major averages climbed off their worst levels going into the close but 
remained stuck in the red. The Dow edged down 29.58 points or 0.1 percent to 20,924.76, the Nasdaq dipped 
15.25 points or 0.3 percent to 5,833.93 and the S&P 500 fell 6.92 points or 0.3 percent to 2,368.39.  The lower 
close on Wall Street was partly due to profit taking, as traders continued to cash in the recent strength in the 
markets. 
  The major averages have closed lower in three out of the past four sessions after rallying to new record highs last 
Wednesday.  Concerns about the outlook for interest rates also weighed on the markets amid rising expectations 
for an increase in rates at next week's Federal Reserve meeting.  CME Group's FedWatch tool is indicating an 84.1 
percent probability of a quarter-point rate hike by the central bank.  Nonetheless, trading activity was somewhat 
subdued as traders look ahead to the Labor Department's closely watched monthly jobs report on Friday.  In 
economic news, a report released by the Commerce Department showed that the U.S. trade deficit widened in line 
with economist estimates in the month of January.  The report said the trade deficit widened to $48.5 billion in 
January from $44.3 billion in December, matching expectations.  The trade deficit reported for January was the 
widest since the deficit reached $50.2 billion in March of 2012.  Sector News  Airline stocks showed a significant 
move to the downside on the day, dragging the NYSE Arca Airline Index down by 1.7 percent. With the drop, the 
index fell to a three-month closing low.  Allegiant Travel (ALGT), Hawaiian Holdings (HA), and Ryanair (RYAAY) 
turned in some of the airline sector's worst performances on the day.   Significant weakness was also visible among 
steel stocks, as reflected by the 1.7 percent loss posted by the NYSE Arca Steel Index. The index fell to its lowest 
closing level in a month.  Biotechnology stocks also came under pressure after President Donald Trump pledged to 
introduce a new system to increase competition in the drug industry and bring prices down.  Telecom, oil service, 
and railroad stocks also showed notable moves to the downside on the day, moving lower along with most of the 
other major sectors.  Other Markets  In overseas trading, stock markets across the Asia-Pacific region turned in 
another mixed performance on Tuesday. Japan's Nikkei 225 Index edged down by 0.2 percent, while Hong Kong's 
Hang Seng Index rose by 0.4 percent.  The major European markets also finished the day mixed. While the 
Stocks Close Modestly Lower For Second Straight Day - U.S. Commentary
German DAX Index inched up by 0.1 percent, the U.K.'s FTSE 100 Index dipped by 0.2 percent and the French 
CAC 40 Index fell by 0.4 percent.  In the bond market, treasuries moved modestly lower after ending the previous 
session roughly flat. As a result, the yield on the benchmark ten-year note, which moves opposite of its price, rose 
by 1.7 basis points to 2.511 percent.  Looking Ahead  Reports on private sector employment and labor productivity 
may attract some attention on Wednesday, although trading activity is likely to remain somewhat subdued ahead of 
the jobs report due Friday.  On the earnings front, H&R Block (HRB) and Urban Outfitters (URBN) are among the 
companies releasing their quarterly results after the close of today's trading.  Bob Evans (BOBE), Ciena (CIEN), 
and Hovnanian (HOV) are also due to report their results before the start of trading on Wednesday.      
Load-Date: March 7, 2017
End of Document
O'Leary swears... Ryanair has changed
O'Leary swears... Ryanair has changed
Flight International
March 7, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHT INTERVIEW
Length: 1556 words
Body
What is the greatest threat facing Ryanair? For chief executive Michael O’Leary, it is not the risk of creeping 
protectionism across Europe post-Brexit, or overcapacity in the short-haul market. Rather, it lies closer to home, he 
suggests – in characteristically robust language.
“The biggest danger is we will f*** it up. We will do something stupid: mergers and acquisitions, start taking 
honorary doctorates, knighthoods, s*** like that. We will start being f****** members of the community.
“If we don’t keep challenging ourselves, and we don’t keep challenging [rival airlines], and we don’t commit to 
keeping driving down prices, then we will become fat, numb and stupid like the rest of the industry.”
By most indicators, O’Leary appears to have little to fear. Dublin-headquartered Ryanair continues to cement its 
dominance across the continent, becoming the largest carrier in Europe – bigger even than some of its rivals at a 
group level – for the first time in calendar year 2016 in terms of passenger numbers, when it carried 117 million 
people.
Despite its latest quarterly results revealing a dip in profits, O’Leary says Ryanair is “on track” to make a 1.3 billion 
($1.37 billion) profit for the full financial year and will double in size over the next eight years to carry 220 million 
people by 2024.
The business model has, however, changed dramatically over recent years.
Historically, Ryanair operated to Europe’s secondary airports, and revelled in being reviled, by both competitors and 
customers. Now, with Frankfurt Main set to join its network this month, Ryanair has a presence at just about every 
primary airport on the continent, barring London Heathrow.
The “Always Getting Better” campaign, via which the carrier has sought to become more customer-friendly, has 
been a “revelatory process for both me and for Ryanair”, O’Leary acknowledges, and has led to a rethink of the 
entire passenger-processing procedure and onboard operation. O’Leary summarises the new approach as one of 
being “nice to passengers”.
O'Leary swears... Ryanair has changed
Co-operation
The most recent example of the changing face of Ryanair has been the talks it has held with airlines such as Aer 
Lingus and Norwegian towards agreements under which the Irish carrier would feed its rivals’ long-haul routes.
O’Leary says a deal with one or other of these two carriers will be in place by the summer. Meanwhile, talks have 
also been conducted with Alitalia about a similar arrangement, O’Leary reveals, adding that he is waiting for a 
definite decision by the Italian flag carrier.
“Alitalia is an obvious case: Alitalia is in turmoil financially, I mean they are just blowing every gasket they have. The 
only way forward for Alitalia is to do more long-haul flying and do less short-haul flying,” he argues.
He sees the shift towards low-cost carriers working with their legacy rivals as “inevitable” rather than a 
“revolutionary change” to the European aviation landscape. Ryanair, he says, will seek to avoid the “complexity” of 
formal arrangements, instead offering competitors cheaper short-haul seats than they themselves can provide.
He cautions that such co-operation would be limited, however. For example, Ryanair could potentially feed 
Lufthansa’s “20 least-profitable routes” without taking over the carrier’s entire short-haul network.
Despite his admission that Ryanair is working with Boeing on a 757 successor – the so-called middle of the market 
(MOM) aircraft – O’Leary denies that he has become what he would term an “aerosexual”.
“No, I couldn’t care less,” he says of the “technical side” of aviation. “All I want to know is the cost per seat.”
757 nostalgia
O’Leary says Ryanair is working with Boeing “on a whole range of possible aircraft types”, including the MOM. 
While he does not see himself as the driving force behind this co-operation, he believes that “ultimately” the US 
manufacturer needs an aircraft “that is pitched at around 300 seats, with long range”.
For O’Leary, “the tragedy was they ever stopped making the 757 – it became the kind of aircraft of choice”.
On the well-worn subject of whether and when Ryanair might start long-haul operations itself, O’Leary reiterates a 
familiar caveat as he notes the lack of production slots for suitable aircraft.
“If there is availability of a 787 in reasonable numbers at a reasonable price, we will take the 787. If there is a 
replacement aircraft for the 757 that can reach the West Coast [of the USA], we will take that.
“What we need to be able to have is the availability of 40 or 50 units at a low price. And because the orderbooks are 
stuffed to the gills, there’s no low-price, long-haul aircraft out there.”
But O’Leary plays down the prospect of taking over one of his rivals, Norwegian for example, to secure the aircraft. 
“Then I’m overpaying. I’m not looking for a quick way into long-haul. I want a long-haul, low-cost aircraft to order,” 
he says. “I’m very happy to wait until the market turns, the Gulf carriers blow themselves up. Something will 
happen.”
Appropriate twin-aisles might be not be available, but Ryanair does have orders for 100 737 Max narrowbodies and 
options for another 100. Norwegian intends to put its Max fleet on transatlantic service, but O’Leary is dismissive of 
the concept. “No. The idea you can use the Max for long-haul The Max can only get you from, say, Ireland or the 
UK to Boston and New York – that’s not a transatlantic operation,” he says.
“If you are going to do transatlantic, you need to have an operation that can fly from Poland to the West Coast and 
everywhere in between. Otherwise, you don’t have the scale.”
But he has nothing but praise for the new narrowbody, which will be delivered to Ryanair from August 2019 and 
which he describes as a “game changer” for the airline’s business. “It has 4% more seats – 197 as against 189 – 
O'Leary swears... Ryanair has changed
and it has a 16% lower fuel consumption, guaranteed. It’s probably going to be more like 20%,” he says. “It 
transforms the business.”
The cost per seat of an aircraft, above all other metrics, is vital for Ryanair’s business model, and explains its loyalty 
to Seattle; he says he will order Airbus aircraft “any time that their cost per seat is 5% below Boeing’s”.
O’Leary emerged as one of the staunchest supporters of the “Remain” campaign in the build-up to the UK’s 
referendum on EU membership last year, and has been an outspoken critic of the “Leave” side both before and 
after the vote.
While he sees no inherent threat of the Brexit vote powering a tide of protectionism across Europe, he believes the 
UK will struggle to show others keen to divorce from the EU that it can make separation a success.
“The great challenge for the Brexiteers is going to be what happens when all of a sudden low-cost air travel to and 
from the UK begins to be threatened by the UK leaving open-skies. Then there’s going to be a big f****** backlash,” 
he says.
“The UK has been talking to itself for the last four months. They haven’t been talking to the Europeans. I think they 
are going to get quite a shock when they start talking to the Europeans about just how bad Brexit is going to be. I 
fundamentally believe the UK will change course in two years when they realise they are going to walk off a f****** 
cliff.”
He is proud that safety levels remain “excellent” at Ryanair, noting the airline’s “industry leading” 30-year record. 
“But we have to keep building on that,” he says. “We have to keep investing in new aircraft, in simulators, in pilot 
training, and we continue to invest very heavily in that.”
Changing times
O’Leary has been at the helm at Ryanair for 23 years, in which time he has made an extraordinary impact, turning a 
tiny Irish regional operator into Europe’s largest carrier by passenger numbers and its foremost low-cost airline.
By his own admission, he now does things that he would have found unthinkable years before, such as attending 
aviation conferences and last year joining with Europe’s legacy airlines to form a new lobbying group – Airlines for 
Europe (A4E).
“I have to slap myself very roughly before I go into these A4E meetings [in order] not to get contaminated, and then 
I get fumigated on the way out of the door,” he says. “Seriously, there are areas where we do need to work with the 
other airlines. We are now the biggest airline in Europe, and we have much more voice if we – with Lufthansa, Air 
France, IAG – sing from the same hymn sheet.”
And despite the changes at the airline, O’Leary shows no inclination that he is thinking about retirement, pointing 
out that Ryanair will double in size over the next eight years.
“What I’ve said is: look, when we stop growing rapidly, doing exciting things, then I’ll be the wrong guy to run the 
place.
“When it becomes a dull, boring, f****** growing-at-two-to-three-percent-a-year [airline], dealing with f****** unions 
and strikes and all that kind of s***, I’ll be gone. But we are not there yet.”
“I have to slap myselfvery roughly before Igo into these A4Emeetings [in order] notto get contaminated”
Cooperation with legacy rivals is “inevitable”, believes airline’s boss
Isopix/REX/Shutterstock
Peter MacDiarmid/REX/Shutterstock
O'Leary swears... Ryanair has changed
“Quote – text. The
style for quotes. You
need to put a hard
return at end of each
line to get the rule”
Quote - person name
Quote - person details
O’Leary was a vocal “Remain” supporter and says the UK could still be in for a shock
Load-Date: March 7, 2017
End of Document
Stocks Close Modestly Lower For Second Straight Day - U.S. Commentary
Stocks Close Modestly Lower For Second Straight Day - U.S. Commentary
RTT News (United States)
March 7, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 621 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Stocks turned in a relatively lackluster performance during trading on Tuesday before eventually 
ending the session modestly lower. With the drop on the day, the major averages added to the losses posted in the 
previous session.
The major averages climbed off their worst levels going into the close but remained stuck in the red. The Dow 
edged down 29.58 points or 0.1 percent to 20,924.76, the Nasdaq dipped 15.25 points or 0.3 percent to 5,833.93 
and the S&P 500 fell 6.92 points or 0.3 percent to 2,368.39.
The lower close on Wall Street was partly due to profit taking, as traders continued to cash in the recent strength in 
the markets.
The major averages have closed lower in three out of the past four sessions after rallying to new record highs last 
Wednesday.
Concerns about the outlook for interest rates also weighed on the markets amid rising expectations for an increase 
in rates at next week's Federal Reserve meeting.
CME Group's FedWatch tool is indicating an 84.1 percent probability of a quarter-point rate hike by the central 
bank.
Nonetheless, trading activity was somewhat subdued as traders look ahead to the Labor Department's closely 
watched monthly jobs report on Friday.
In economic news, a report released by the Commerce Department showed that the U.S. trade deficit widened in 
line with economist estimates in the month of January.
The report said the trade deficit widened to $48.5 billion in January from $44.3 billion in December, matching 
expectations.
The trade deficit reported for January was the widest since the deficit reached $50.2 billion in March of 2012.
Sector News
Airline stocks showed a significant move to the downside on the day, dragging the NYSE Arca Airline Index down 
by 1.7 percent. With the drop, the index fell to a three-month closing low.
Stocks Close Modestly Lower For Second Straight Day - U.S. Commentary
Allegiant Travel (ALGT), Hawaiian Holdings (HA), and Ryanair (RYAAY) turned in some of the airline sector's worst 
performances on the day.
Significant weakness was also visible among steel stocks, as reflected by the 1.7 percent loss posted by the NYSE 
Arca Steel Index. The index fell to its lowest closing level in a month.
Biotechnology stocks also came under pressure after President Donald Trump pledged to introduce a new system 
to increase competition in the drug industry and bring prices down.
Telecom, oil service, and railroad stocks also showed notable moves to the downside on the day, moving lower 
along with most of the other major sectors.
Other Markets
In overseas trading, stock markets across the Asia-Pacific region turned in another mixed performance on Tuesday. 
Japan's Nikkei 225 Index edged down by 0.2 percent, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index rose by 0.4 percent.
The major European markets also finished the day mixed. While the German DAX Index inched up by 0.1 percent, 
the U.K.'s FTSE 100 Index dipped by 0.2 percent and the French CAC 40 Index fell by 0.4 percent.
In the bond market, treasuries moved modestly lower after ending the previous session roughly flat. As a result, the 
yield on the benchmark ten-year note, which moves opposite of its price, rose by 1.7 basis points to 2.511 percent.
Looking Ahead
Reports on private sector employment and labor productivity may attract some attention on Wednesday, although 
trading activity is likely to remain somewhat subdued ahead of the jobs report due Friday.
On the earnings front, H&R Block (HRB) and Urban Outfitters (URBN) are among the companies releasing their 
quarterly results after the close of today's trading.
Bob Evans (BOBE), Ciena (CIEN), and Hovnanian (HOV) are also due to report their results before the start of 
trading on Wednesday.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2017 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: March 7, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Italy launches Naples winter schedule 2017
Ryanair Italy launches Naples winter schedule 2017
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 7, 2017 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 304 words
Highlight: Ryanair Italy has launched its first Naples winter schedule 2017, with two based aircraft (an investment 
of $200 million) and nine new routes to Bologna, Brussels, Budapest, Dublin, Krakow, Malta, Porto, Thessaloniki 
and Wroclaw (24 routes in total), which will deliver 1.7 million customers per annum in total and support 1,300 jobs 
at Naples Airport.
Body
Ryanair will connect Naples with major business centres on high frequency, low fare services including London 
(daily) and Milan (4 daily), with better timings and lower fares, making Ryanair the ideal choice for Italian business 
and leisure customers, and these new Naples routes will go on sale on the Ryanair.com website 
today.Ryanair&#39;s Naples summer 2017 schedule is attracting record bookings, with 19 new routes starting in 
April on lower fares as Ryanair passes on lower fuel costs, and an even better customer experience, as it continues 
to roll out its "Always Getting Better" improvements.In Naples, Ryanair&#39;s Michael O&#39;Leary said: "We are 
pleased to launch our first ever Naples winter schedule, which includes 9 new routes which will deliver 1.7m 
customers p.a. and support 1,300 jobs at Naples airport. Our 2 based aircraft represents an investment of $200m, 
which further underlines our commitment to growing traffic, tourism and jobs in the Campania region and we look 
forward to working closely with our airport partners to deliver further growth in Naples."We are also pleased to 
report record bookings on our 19 new Naples summer 2017 routes and Italian customers and visitors can look 
forward to even lower fares so there&#39;s never been a better time to book a low fare flight on Ryanair. 
We urge all customers who wish to book their holidays to do so now on the Ryanair.com website or mobile app, 
where they can avail of the lowest fare air travel to and from Naples."To celebrate the launch of our Naples winter 
2017 schedule we are releasing seats for sale across our European network from just E9.99, which are available for 
booking until midnight Thursday (9 Mar). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers 
should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: March 13, 2017
Ryanair Italy launches Naples winter schedule 2017
End of Document
Flurry of flights cancelled due to French strike
Flurry of flights cancelled due to French strike
City A.M.
March 7, 2017 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 201 words
Byline: REBECCA SMITH
Body
THOUSANDS of passengers were disrupted by the start of a five-day strike by French air traffic controllers (ATC) 
strike yesterday, with airlines forced to cut a raft of flights.
Airlines have been asked to reduce their flight offerings in France by 25 per cent, as services flying over France, 
including links from the UK, Italy and Spain, are also affected by the strikes at control centres in Brest and 
Bordeaux.
Airlines for Europe (A4E) said it expects more than 1,000 flights to be cancelled over the week.
Ryanair, which had to cancel 45 flights yesterday, including two London Stansted ones, has called on the French 
government and European Commission to take "immediate action" to prevent the skies over Europe being closed.
Chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs said the French government and European Commission "cannot stand idly by 
and allow another summer of disruption and misery for European consumers to take place".
Elsewhere, Easyjet cancelled 38 flights, four of which were UK touching. A spokesperson said that while it was 
"outside of our control", they apologised to customers for any inconvenience and it was "doing all possible to 
minimise any disruption as a result of the industrial action".
Load-Date: March 7, 2017
End of Document
EXTRA: easyJet Follows Others With Lift To Passengers And Load Factor
EXTRA: easyJet Follows Others With Lift To Passengers And Load Factor
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 6, 2017 Monday 6:52 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 404 words
Body
 easyJet PLC on Monday said it carried more passengers and improved its load factor in February, reinforcing the 
positive results for the month already reported by its peers. 
The airline's shares traded 1.5% higher on Monday at 970.50 pence per share. 
easyJet said it carried 5.3 million passengers in February, 8.2% higher than the 4.9 million passengers carried in 
February 2015. The load factor for the month was 92.0%, improving by 1.6 percentage points from 90.4% last year. 
On a rolling annual basis, easyJet has carried 6.8% more passengers year-on-year at 75.3 million versus 70.5 
million, while the load factor has remained flat at 91.6%. 
Other London-listed airlines also recently reported their respective figures for February, with Ryanair Holdings PLC, 
International Consolidated Airlines Group and Wizz Air Holdings PLC all reporting year-on-year growth. 
Low-cost European carrier Ryanair said traffic grew 10% year-on-year in February to 8.2 million customers from 7.4 
million customers while the load factor improved to 95.0% from 93.0%. 
Rolling annual traffic to February grew 14% to 119.1 million customers, the group said, with no load factor figure 
provided. 
IAG - which owns British Airways, Spanish carriers Iberia and Vueling, and Irish airline Aer Lingus - said group 
traffic, measured in revenue passenger kilometres, increased by 2.7% to 6.5 million in February, from 6.4 million a 
year earlier. Load factor rose by 0.6 percentage point to 78.0% from 77.4%.
By individual airline, British Airways saw 1.1% growth in traffic, while Aer Lingus, Iberia and Vueling achieved 
growth of 14%, 2.1% and 11%, respectively. Group premium traffic across the group increased by 4.7% year-on-
year.
EXTRA: easyJet Follows Others With Lift To Passengers And Load Factor
IAG said it carried 13.2 million passengers in total in the 12-months to the end of February, up 4.1% from 12.7 
million passengers a year earlier, while the load factor was flat at 78.1%. Revenue passenger kilometres and 
available seat kilometres were both up 3.7%. 
Wizz Air, the low-cost Eastern and Central European-focused airline, said it carried 1.7 million passengers in 
February, which is a 22% rise on the 1.4 million passengers carried in February 2016. Meanwhile, load factor 
increased by 5.5 percentage points to 91.9% from 86.4%.
On a rolling annual basis, the number of passengers carried grew by 19% to 23.4 million from 19.7 million, as load 
factor increased by 1.6 percentage points to 89.8% from 88.2%.
Load-Date: March 7, 2017
End of Document
EXTRA: easyJet Follows Others With Lift To Passengers And Load Factor
EXTRA: easyJet Follows Others With Lift To Passengers And Load Factor
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
March 6, 2017 Monday 6:52 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 404 words
Body
 easyJet PLC on Monday said it carried more passengers and improved its load factor in February, reinforcing the 
positive results for the month already reported by its peers. 
The airline's shares traded 1.5% higher on Monday at 970.50 pence per share. 
easyJet said it carried 5.3 million passengers in February, 8.2% higher than the 4.9 million passengers carried in 
February 2015. The load factor for the month was 92.0%, improving by 1.6 percentage points from 90.4% last year. 
On a rolling annual basis, easyJet has carried 6.8% more passengers year-on-year at 75.3 million versus 70.5 
million, while the load factor has remained flat at 91.6%. 
Other London-listed airlines also recently reported their respective figures for February, with Ryanair Holdings PLC, 
International Consolidated Airlines Group and Wizz Air Holdings PLC all reporting year-on-year growth. 
Low-cost European carrier Ryanair said traffic grew 10% year-on-year in February to 8.2 million customers from 7.4 
million customers while the load factor improved to 95.0% from 93.0%. 
Rolling annual traffic to February grew 14% to 119.1 million customers, the group said, with no load factor figure 
provided. 
IAG - which owns British Airways, Spanish carriers Iberia and Vueling, and Irish airline Aer Lingus - said group 
traffic, measured in revenue passenger kilometres, increased by 2.7% to 6.5 million in February, from 6.4 million a 
year earlier. Load factor rose by 0.6 percentage point to 78.0% from 77.4%.
By individual airline, British Airways saw 1.1% growth in traffic, while Aer Lingus, Iberia and Vueling achieved 
growth of 14%, 2.1% and 11%, respectively. Group premium traffic across the group increased by 4.7% year-on-
year.
EXTRA: easyJet Follows Others With Lift To Passengers And Load Factor
IAG said it carried 13.2 million passengers in total in the 12-months to the end of February, up 4.1% from 12.7 
million passengers a year earlier, while the load factor was flat at 78.1%. Revenue passenger kilometres and 
available seat kilometres were both up 3.7%. 
Wizz Air, the low-cost Eastern and Central European-focused airline, said it carried 1.7 million passengers in 
February, which is a 22% rise on the 1.4 million passengers carried in February 2016. Meanwhile, load factor 
increased by 5.5 percentage points to 91.9% from 86.4%.
On a rolling annual basis, the number of passengers carried grew by 19% to 23.4 million from 19.7 million, as load 
factor increased by 1.6 percentage points to 89.8% from 88.2%.
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
End of Document
HS2 chief pushes for 'everyday low prices' Interview: David Higgins
HS2 chief pushes for 'everyday low prices'; Interview: David Higgins
Financial Times (London, England)
March 6, 2017 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 554 words
Byline: Andy Bounds, North of England correspondent
Highlight: Call for budget airline model where early bookers are offered cheaper fares
Body
The head of the HS2 high-speed railway is pushing for "everyday low prices" on the line and said big infrastructure 
projects for the north were needed to solve the London housing crisis.
David Higgins, chairman of the public company developing the line, said ticket prices could be published by the end 
of the year and criticised the way rail fares were structured. "By the end of this year we need to be clear what the 
service offering is. The 17 million variations in ticket pricing . . . [are] not best practice," Sir David told the FT.
He added the line would carry up to 600,000 passengers a day and that early bookers should be offered cheaper 
fares. "You look at EasyJet or Ryanair or Eurostar. These services are full all the time. People will want to know 
they can book in advance, they can always get a seat and it is reliable. It is everyday efficient low prices," he said.
A law providing for the first phase of the £56bn line was enacted last month and enabling works should start within 
weeks. However, the first trains will not arrive in Birmingham until 2026.
Sir David said the route could plug into east-west rail connections, linking cities and towns and helping to create a 
counterweight to London. He called on the government to back proposals for an east-west high speed line from 
Liverpool to Leeds and Sheffield, details of which will be outlined in the autumn.
HS2 chief pushes for 'everyday low prices' Interview: David Higgins
Infrastructure spending "per head of population in London versus the rest has been heavily distorted", he said, and 
HS2 would help to address this.
A lasting solution to the London housing crisis, which he said was driving families and businesses away from the 
capital, could only be achieved if the north became more prosperous.
"There is nothing else that will start to solve this issue. You cannot build your way out of this crisis of affordability. 
House prices in London are not going to crash," he said. "We need to distribute the jobs. It will make the whole 
country more productive."
Rebalancing meant "making Crewe within commuting distance of London, Birmingham and Manchester".
Approval for the first section north of Birmingham, to Crewe, should come within 18 months, he said. In July HS2 
will set out the route for the rest of the line, which will split into a Y, with one arm to Manchester and the other to 
Leeds. The 225mph trains will rejoin existing lines at Wigan and York, reducing journey times to cities beyond.
Sir David said HS2 would tender seven contracts this year, each worth £1bn, for the initial earthworks, as well as 
choosing companies to design and build the trains. A sum of £2.75bn has been set aside for rolling stock in the first 
phase, and £7bn for the whole line.
The UK has no national trainmakers but Sir David said 60 per cent of the money was for a maintenance contract, 
which favours local suppliers. This "is an enormous opportunity for the UK manufacturing industry, [but] it will need 
a supply chain," he said, and EU rules forbid favouring domestic companies.
HS2 also plans to start looking for a development partner for stations this year. Civic leaders say these projects can 
regenerate entire districts, and Sir David said the high-speed route to Kent had increased property prices in Ashford 
and coastal towns as people moved there to commute to London: "Regeneration follows transport infrastructure."
Load-Date: March 5, 2017
End of Document
Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft FI Buys Shares of 2,552 Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft FI Buys Shares of 2,552 Ryanair Holdings 
plc (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
March 3, 2017 Friday 10:51 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 732 words
Byline: Nicole Kennedy
Body
Mar 03, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Commerzbank 
Aktiengesellschaft FI bought a new stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the fourth quarter, 
according to its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The firm bought 
2,552 shares of the company's stock, valued at approximately $212,000.  A number of other large investors have 
also added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. Quantbot Technologies LP boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc by 236.6% in the third quarter. Quantbot Technologies LP now owns 1,656 shares of the company's 
stock worth $124,000 after buying an additional 1,164 shares during the period. 
Bremer Trust National Association purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter 
worth approximately $202,000. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc during the third quarter worth approximately $203,000. CIBC World Markets Inc. purchased a new 
stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter worth approximately $222,000. Finally, Fox Run 
Management L.L.C. purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc during the third quarter worth 
approximately $240,000. 42.80% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds. Ryanair Holdings 
plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) opened at 80.28 on Friday. The company has a market cap of $19.81 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of 14.83 and a beta of 0.72. The stock has a 50 day moving average price of $83.14 and a 200-day 
moving average price of $79.01. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $66.09 and a 12-month high of 
$89.67.  This story was originally posted by Watch List News and is the sole property of of Watch List News. If you 
are reading this story on another publication, it was stolen and republished in violation of United States and 
international 
copyright 
laws. 
The 
legal 
version 
of 
this 
story 
can 
be 
viewed 
at 
http://www.watchlistnews.com/commerzbank-aktiengesellschaft-fi-buys-shares-of-2552-ryanair-holdings-plc-
ryaay/1145751.html.  RYAAY has been the subject of a number of research reports. Berenberg Bank initiated 
coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on Friday, November 11th. They issued a 'buy' rating for the 
company. Canaccord Genuity initiated coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a research note on Thursday, January 
26th. They issued a 'buy' rating for the company. Barclays PLC reissued a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc in a research note on Tuesday, January 10th. Deutsche Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a 
'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research note on Monday, February 13th. Finally, Kepler Capital Markets cut 
Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Friday, February 10th. One equities 
research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold rating and six have assigned a buy 
rating to the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings plc currently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and a consensus 
Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft FI Buys Shares of 2,552 Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
price target of $95.33. Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding 
company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving 
short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. 
Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger 
service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food 
and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get 
the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for 
Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news 
and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily 
email newsletter[3]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: March 3, 2017
End of Document
Castleark Management LLC Has $174,000 Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Castleark Management LLC Has $174,000 Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(RYAAY)
Watchlist News
March 3, 2017 Friday 8:06 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 859 words
Byline: Kyle Jackson
Body
Mar 03, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Castleark Management LLC 
raised its position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 18.0% during the fourth quarter, according to its 
most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The fund owned 2,095 shares of the 
company's stock after buying an additional 320 shares during the period. Castleark Management LLC's holdings in 
Ryanair Holdings plc were worth $174,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  Other hedge funds and other 
institutional investors have also made changes to their positions in the company. 
Capital Research Global Investors raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc by 17.2% in the third quarter. 
Capital Research Global Investors now owns 8,373,690 shares of the company's stock worth $628,278,000 after 
buying an additional 1,230,762 shares during the last quarter. Capital International Investors raised its stake in 
Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.6% in the third quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 4,380,192 shares of the 
company's stock valued at $328,646,000 after buying an additional 70,214 shares in the last quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC raised its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 33.7% in the third quarter. Lazard Asset Management 
LLC now owns 3,330,852 shares of the company's stock valued at $249,913,000 after buying an additional 838,744 
shares in the last quarter. Janus Capital Management LLC raised its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 126.4% in the 
fourth quarter. Janus Capital Management LLC now owns 3,101,381 shares of the company's stock valued at 
$258,254,000 after buying an additional 1,731,481 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Neuberger Berman Group 
LLC raised its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 27.3% in the third quarter. Neuberger Berman Group LLC now owns 
2,670,534 shares of the company's stock valued at $200,370,000 after buying an additional 572,293 shares in the 
last quarter. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 42.80% of the company's stock. Shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded up 0.90% during trading on Friday, reaching $81.00. 225,320 shares of 
the company traded hands. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $66.09 and a 12-month high of $89.67. The 
stock has a market capitalization of $19.99 billion, a PE ratio of 14.96 and a beta of 0.72. The firm's 50-day moving 
average is $83.14 and its 200-day moving average is $79.01.  This report was first posted by Watch List News and 
is owned by of Watch List News. If you are reading this report on another domain, it was illegally copied and 
republished in violation of US and international trademark ...pyright law. The correct version of this report can be 
viewed 
at 
http://www.watchlistnews.com/castleark-management-llc-has-174000-stake-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-
ryaay/1146845.html.  Several analysts recently issued reports on the stock. Zacks Investment Research upgraded 
shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Tuesday, December 13th. 
Kepler Capital Markets lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research 
Castleark Management LLC Has $174,000 Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
report on Friday, February 10th. Barclays PLC reiterated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a 
research report on Tuesday, January 10th. Deutsche Bank AG upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 
'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research report on Monday, February 13th. Finally, Canaccord Genuity assumed 
coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating 
on the stock. One equities research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold rating and 
six have assigned a buy rating to the stock. The stock currently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and a consensus 
price target of $95.33. Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding 
company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving 
short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. 
Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger 
service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food 
and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get 
the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for 
Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news 
and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily 
email newsletter[3]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: March 3, 2017
End of Document
OPINION: Can Ryanair 's O'Leary continue to play the outsider? E Few company executives across 
businesses full stop, let alone the airline industry, have challe....
OPINION: Can Ryanair's O'Leary continue to play the outsider?;  E Few 
company executives across businesses full stop, let alone the airline 
industry, have challenged convention, expectations and corporate image to 
the extent that Michael O’Leary has.
Flight International
March 3, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 378 words
Body
Few company executives across businesses full stop, let alone the airline industry, have challenged convention, 
expectations and corporate image to the extent that Michael O’Leary has.
For more than 25 years the motor-mouthed Irish chief executive has railed against the system, courting 
controversy, notoriety and exposure for his low fares philosophy. In the process he has built Ryanair into the 
biggest European carrier in passenger terms.
When O’Leary and Ryanair began softening around the edges, removing punitive charges and launching a 
customer service charm offensive, the test became whether the Ryanair boss could continue to challenge an 
establishment the carrier was rapidly becoming part of.
The start of routes at Frankfurt Main airport later this month – another batch have just been added for this winter - 
and continued efforts to tie-up feeder deals are further examples of Ryanair moving into what is traditionally seen as 
legacy carrier territory.
Ryanair
As Europe’s biggest carrier – the airline overtook Lufthansa even at a group level for passengers transported in 
2016 – Ryanair and its low-cost peers, at least in the short-haul European market, have arguably become the 
establishment.
O’Leary’s patter though has changed little, pitching Ryanair as an outsider in the industry and remaining as 
charismatic and copy-friendly as ever. But how does this square with an airline that is one of Europe’s corporate 
giants? Can O’Leary be outsider, underdog and enfant terrible, as well as heading Europe’s biggest airline – and 
one with enviable profit margins at the same time.
OPINION: Can Ryanair 's O'Leary continue to play the outsider? E Few company executives across 
businesses full stop, let alone the airline industry, have challe....
The answer may be that the posturing is irrelevant if the profitability endures. Excepting a fuel-hedging blip in 2008, 
Ryanair’s results have been consistently impressive over the last decade. And even with a challenging yield 
environment, the airline is still poised for profit in the 1.3-1.35 billion range in its current financial year.
O’Leary may have adopted a more conciliatory approach – even teaming with network carrier rivals to pursue 
Airlines 4 Europe’s campaigns – but Ryanair’s bottom line shows he remains anything but the typical corporate 
executive, and that there may be financial logic to his disdain for the industry’s conventional wisdom.
Michael O’Leary:
Load-Date: March 3, 2017
End of Document
Norway : Ryanair settles with former employee
Norway: Ryanair settles with former employee
Associated Press Financial Wire
March 3, 2017 Friday 4:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 195 words
Dateline: COPENHAGEN, Denmark 
Body
COPENHAGEN, Denmark (AP) - Europe's biggest budget airline, Ryanair, has reached a settlement with a former 
Italian employee who sued the company over her dismissal and working conditions.
Christen Horn Johannessen, lawyer with Norway's Parat union, said Friday that Ryanair has agreed to pay 
Alessandra Cocca 570,000 kroner ($67,500), the equivalent of three years of salary.
Cocca was hired in 2012 as a flight attendant, and based at an airport near Oslo. Less than a year later, Cocca who 
compared her job to a "slave contract" and reported a senior colleague for smelling of alcohol, was dismissed.
Norwegian courts had ruled local labor laws applied because she was based in Norway, while the airline claimed 
the case should be heard in Ireland, where Ryanair is registered. The low-cost airline closed down its Rygge airport 
base in October after the Norwegian government changed tax laws.
Ryanair rejected Cocca and Parat's claims but confirmed the case had been settled. It said "the legal costs of the 
trial in the Norwegian courts would far exceed the settlement payment."
The case "no longer has any relevance since Ryanair no longer operates any bases in Norway."
Load-Date: March 4, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair February Customer Traffic Up 10% YOY
Ryanair February Customer Traffic Up 10% YOY
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 3, 2017 Friday 6:03 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 42 words
Body
 Ryanair (RYAAY) said Friday February traffic reached 8.2 million customers, up 10% YOY, and the load factor 
grew 2 percentage points to 95%. 
The rolling annual traffic to February grew 14% to 119.1 million customers.
Price: 80.28, Change: , Percent Change: 
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair February traffic grows 10%
Ryanair February traffic grows 10%
Business World (Digest)
March 03, 2017 Friday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 135 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair has today released February traffic statistics which shows traffic grew 10% to 8.2m customers and load 
factor rose 2% points to 95%.   Rolling annual traffic to February grew 14% to 119.1m customers.     The release 
highlighted the group’s lower fares and AGB services are a reason for the better load factor performance in the 
fourth quarter and, also, they now expect full year traffic to “just about hit 120m.”   According to Goodbody 
Stockbrokers, "The lower rate of pax growth outlined this morning is consistent with the dropping of some of the 
more deeply discounted promotional fares and, as such, Ryanair has to achieve pax growth of 12.5% (9.6m pax) in 
March to meet our forecasts, which is against a tougher comp due to Easter falling in April this year."
Source: www.businessworld.ie 
About us
Load-Date: March 14, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair February passenger traffic increases
Ryanair February passenger traffic increases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 3, 2017 Friday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 101 words
Highlight: Ryanair Limited has reported that the total passengers traffic for the month of February 2017 was 8.2 
million customers, an increase of 10%, compared to 7.4 million customers for the month of February 2016.
Body
Load factor for the month of February 2017 was 95%, an increase of 2 percentage points, compared to 93% for 
February 2016.Ryanair&#39;s Kenny Jacobs said: "Our February traffic grew by 10% to 8.2m customers, while our 
load factor jumped 2% points to 95%, on the back of lower fares and the continuing success of our "Always Getting 
Better" customer experience programme.Ryanair&#39;s lower fares and AGB services are leading to slightly higher 
than expected load factors in Q4 and accordingly we now expect full year traffic to just about hit 120m, up almost 
13% over the 106.4m customers we carried in FY16."
Load-Date: March 9, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Lower as Manufacturers Head South
European ADRs Edge Lower as Manufacturers Head South
MT Newswires Live Briefs
March 2, 2017 Thursday 10:38 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 240 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.5% lower at 123.68 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Thursday morning. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Cellectis (CLLS), a French genome engineering company, 4.5% lower, 
followed by Natuzzi (NTZ), an Italian furniture manufacturer, down by 3.4% and AB InBev (BUD), a Belgian brewing 
company, down by 3.0%. Luxottica (LUX), an Italian eyewear company, was 2.1% lower. 
In the UK, Amarin (AMRN), a biopharmaceutical company, was 2.7% lower, followed by Ryanair (RYAAY), a low-
cost airline, down by 1.9% and gold-miner Randgold Resources (GOLD), down by 1.5%. CRH (CRH), a building 
materials company, was 1.1% lower. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Oasmia Pharmaceuticals (OASM), a Sweden-based pharmaceutical 
company, up by 6.9%, followed by Forward Pharma (FWP), a Danish biopharmaceutical company, up by 2.6%. 
Trivago (TRVG), which operates an online hotel search platform, was 1.8% higher and Ascendis Pharma (ASND),  
a Danish clinical stage biopharmaceutical company, up by 1.5%. 
And, in the UK, Adaptimmune Therapeutics (ADAP), a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, was 3.5% higher, 
followed by Amec Foster Wheeler (AMFW),a global engineering conglomerate, up by 3.0% and BT Group (BT), a 
communications services company, 1.6% higher. Pearson (PSO), an education company, was up by 0.8%. 
Price: 2.09, Change: +0.21, Percent Change: +11.17
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair adds extra flights for Liverpool and Man Utd fans
Ryanair adds extra flights for Liverpool and Man Utd fans
Business World (Digest)
March 02, 2017 Thursday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 207 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
It was announced today that Ryanair has today added 5 extra flights between Dublin and the UK for Liverpool and 
Man United’s rescheduled Premier League games in April, after strong demand from fans.    Ryanair has added an 
extra flight between Dublin and Liverpool on Saturday, 1st April for Liverpool v Everton and extra return flights from 
Dublin on Sunday, 23rd April for Liverpool v Crystal Palace.
Ryanair has also added an extra flight between Manchester and Dublin for the Man United v Chelsea clash on 
Sunday, 16th April, and an extra Dublin - Manchester flight on Sunday 30th April for Man United v Swansea City.   
The airline has warned that seats are limited and demand is very high so football fans should act quickly.
Speaking today, Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Robin Kiely said, "With the season coming to an exciting close, 
Irish football fans will be travelling in huge numbers to support their teams across the water, and we’ve added 5 
extra flights between Dublin and Liverpool and Manchester, following strong demand for these rescheduled fixtures. 
These seats are sure to sell out fast so fans should log on to www.ryanair.com and book their low cost Premier 
League seats today.”   Source:            www.businessworld.ie 
About us
Load-Date: March 13, 2017
End of Document
Grand National anti- Irish bias weights row escalates HORSE RACING
Grand National anti-Irish bias weights row escalates; HORSE RACING
City A.M.
March 2, 2017 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: SPORT; Pg. 24
Length: 174 words
Byline: FRANK DALLERES
Body
ONE OF Britain's top handicappers has hit back at claims his assessment of Grand National entries was coloured 
by anti-Irish bias after a row broke out ahead of next month's race.
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary's Gigginstown House Stud yesterday withdrew eight of its horses at the latest forfeit 
stage, including his big three Don Poli, Empire Of Dirt and Outlander.
That came after his brother and racing manager, Eddie O'Leary, blasted the weights allocated last month, saying: 
"A handicapper is meant to be impartial. The National now is a pre-Brexit, post-Brexit handicap."
British Horseracing Authority (BHA) handicapper Phil Smith defended his verdict, which followed a change in the 
BHA's methodology for assessing Irish horses.
"Since switching approaches the strike rate of British and Irish runners have levelled out," he said.
"The Jump Handicappers are confident that based on these figures there is no semblance of any anti-Irish bias and 
that keeping our own Irish performance figures has given our handicaps greater equality and fairness."
Load-Date: March 2, 2017
End of Document
EBITDAR margins improve outside USA but trending down: TAA
EBITDAR margins improve outside USA but trending down: TAA
AirFinance Journal
March 2017
Copyright 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 407 words
Byline: Olivier Bonnassies
Body
Based on the full year numbers, Airfinance Journal’s The Airline Analyst (TAA) shows continued expansion of 
Ebitdar margin among a sample of 15 airlines, which had reported their financial results to 31 December 2016, at 
the time of writing.
TAA found that 11 airlines achieved increased Ebitdar margin and only four (mostly based in North America) had 
their margin contract.
“Ebitdar margin is a good measure of airlines’ ability to generate earnings from the business and trends in the 
competitive environment,” said The Airline Analyst’s managing director Michael Duff.
Amongst last year’s notable improvers are legacy carriers Air France-KLM, All Nippon Airways and Singapore 
Airlines.
The first low-cost carrier is Norwegian Air Shuttle with a 2.2% improvement in EBITDAR margin over the past 12 
months.
Source: The Airline Analyst, February 2017
However when we look at quarterly numbers through 2016 we can see that most of the Ebitdar margin gains were 
earned in the first half of the year, with negative trends setting in in the second half. There was lot of volatility in 
Norwegian’s numbers in the first three quarters. Margins were well ahead at the beginning of the year but towards 
the end of 2016, they deteriorated. Ryanair’s change in margins was uniform throughout the year, albeit between 
1% and 2% per quarter, according to the data.
In North America, US domestic carriers have been under pressure since last summer. And year-on-year changes 
show US carriers’ margins are compressing as a result of capacity growth over the past year.
Southwest Airlines and Spirit Airlines were uniformly in negative territory over the second half of 2016, after a timid 
improvement in the first half, according to TAA. By contrast Delta Air Lines’ first quarter showed one of the most 
improved EBITDAR margins of the airlines sample.
Source: The Airline Analyst, February 2017
EBITDAR margins improve outside USA but trending down: TAA
JetBlue Airways’ margin gain in the first half was solid but the low-cost carrier’s performance in the second half was 
marginally negative.
In Mexico, Volaris’ Ebitdar margin was overall positive in 2016, but the trend was negative in the second half. 
Canadian carrier WestJet’s yields were overall negative in 2016, the data shows.
The first quarter 2017 margins will be interesting to see if the margin trends remain negative. For data on 208 
airlines please see www.theairlineanalyst.com.
Load-Date: March 20, 2017
End of Document
Jeju Air takes 737-800 from SMBC Aviation Capital
Jeju Air takes 737-800 from SMBC Aviation Capital
AirFinance Journal
March 2017
Copyright 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 116 words
Byline: Olivier Bonnassies
Body
Korean’s carrier Jeju Air has added another Boeing 737-800 aircraft under an operating lease agreement with 
SMBC Aviation Capital.
The aircraft, MSN 37540, is the third of a four-aircraft deal to deliver to Jeju.
The first aircraft, MSN 35018, delivered in November 2016, while the second unit, MSN 37541, joined the Korean 
carrier fleet in February. The final unit, MSN 37543 is due in April.
The four aircraft are 2009-built units that were previously operated by Ryanair, according to Airfinance Journal's 
Fleet Tracker.
This is the third portfolio deal that SMBC Aviation Capital has completed with Jeju Air during the past year and 
brings to 10, the number of aircraft on lease to the airline.
Load-Date: April 17, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches new routes to Frankfurt from London Stansted, Manchester
Ryanair launches new routes to Frankfurt from London Stansted, 
Manchester
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
March 1, 2017 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 120 words
Highlight: Irish low-cost airline Ryanair has extended its UK winter 2017 schedule by launching two daily flights to 
Frankfurt, Germany from London Stansted.
Body
The carrier has also introduced six weekly flights between Frankfurt and Manchester.Ryanair communications head 
Robin Kiely said: "We are pleased to announce 2 new winter routes to Frankfurt am Main from London Stansted 
and Manchester starting this October as part of our growing UK winter 2017 schedule."Ryanair customers can 
choose from 124 London Stansted routes next winter, including 3 other new routes to Aalborg, Oradea and 
Pardubice, while our full Manchester winter 2017 schedule will be unveiled shortly."UK customers and visitors can 
look forward to even lower fares when they make advance bookings for their summer or winter holidays, so there's 
never been a better time to book a low fare flight with Ryanair."
Load-Date: March 8, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Higher as Miners See Mixed Fortunes
European ADRs Edge Higher as Miners See Mixed Fortunes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 28, 2017 Tuesday 10:52 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 222 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.02% higher at 124.44 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Tuesday morning. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Oasmia Pharmaceutical (OASM), a Sweden-based pharmaceutical 
company, 8.5% higher, followed by Cellectis (CLLS),  a French genome engineering company, up by 2.4% and Eni 
(E), an oil and gas production company, up by 1.9%. Forward Pharma (FWP), a Danish biopharmaceutical 
company, was 1.7% higher. 
In the UK, gold mining company Randgold Resources (GOLD) was 3.7% higher, followed by Pearson (PSO), an 
education company, up by 2.4% and Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), up by 1.9%. Low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY) 
was 1.2% higher. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Sequans Communications (SQNS), a French developer of chipset 
solutions, 2.9% lower, followed by Criteo (CRTO),  a French technology company, down by 2.3% and Natuzzi 
(NTZ), an Italian furniture manufacturer, 1.9% lower. TiGenix (TIG), a Belgium-based biopharmaceutical company, 
was 1.7% lower. 
And, in the UK, miner BHP Billiton (BBL) was 1.7% lower, followed by Lloyds Banking Group (LYG), down by 1.4% 
and financial services provider Prudential (PUK), down by 0.9%. BT Group (BT), a telecommunications company, 
was 0.8% lower. 
Price: 2.00, Change: -0.30, Percent Change: -13.04
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
European ADRs Edge Higher as Miners See Mixed Fortunes
End of Document
Douvan the star turn in Mullins' Festival squad Ben Cleminson reports from Irish champion trainer Willie Mullins' 
yard
Douvan the star turn in Mullins' Festival squad; Ben Cleminson reports from 
Irish champion trainer Willie Mullins' yard
City A.M.
February 28, 2017 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 30
Length: 941 words
Byline: Ben Cleminson
Body
ALTHOUGH the sun was shining at Willie Mullins' Closutton base yesterday, as he briefed the media ahead of the 
Cheltenham Festival, some dark clouds have been hovering over the County Carlow stable this season.
The Irish champion trainer has saddled an astonishing 15 winners at the last two Festivals, but the run-up to this 
year's extravaganza has been testing to say the least.
Faugheen, Annie Power and Min are the highest profile sidelined absentees, while tragically Vautour suffered a 
fatal injury in October.
Add that to the 60 horses that were removed by Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary's Gigginstown operation at the start 
of the season, it certainly hasn't been plain sailing.
When asked if it would be a hard call to fly over on Aer Lingus or Ryanair, he joked: "I could go on the ferry this 
year!" Mullins sent over around 60 horses 12 months ago, but that will drop to nearer 40 this time.
It's far from doom and gloom, though, particularly with the unbeaten Douvan 1/4 with 188BET to land the Champion 
Chase.
"He's won everything we've asked him to win, but you have to win the championship races," said Mullins. "The bar 
keeps rising and he keeps meeting it. Hopefully he can keep going." "When you go to Cheltenham with a strong 
favourite, it's always relief rather than joy when they win. There's a fair bit of expectation with him. You just hope 
you can keep them right and get there."
Douvan the star turn in Mullins' Festival squad Ben Cleminson reports from Irish champion trainer Willie Mullins' 
yard
This is always a nervous time for any trainer and Mullins will be hoping that his bad luck has run out.
"It's been a tough season. I'm well used to accepting disappointments in this game. We've had some fantastic years 
and it goes up and down," he said.
Mullins has 48 Festival wins to his name and has won the leading trainer award for the past four seasons. You 
certainly wouldn't bet against him making it five at 8/13 with 188BET.
Here are his thoughts on his main contenders this year.
MELON Skybet Supreme Novices' Hurdle (4/1 with 188BET) I could have four or five runners in the Supreme 
Novices'. Melon is a horse with plenty of ability; he jumps well but lacks experience. He's a fine, strong, tall horse 
and has the potential to be right up there. The form in the two mile division isn't as strong as some years. He has 
plenty of jumping experience at home. I'd say it'll be an easy enough decision for Ruby [Walsh] who to ride.
LIMINI Stan James Champion Hurdle (5/1 with 188BET) I would say it's 50-50 [for her to be supplemented]. A lot 
depends on how Vroum Vroum Mag goes between now and then. If Limini's fine and sparking, I think we might take 
a punt with her. I hoped that Punchestown wouldn't turn into a race of attrition. Everything fell into place. I didn't 
think she could pull out and go past Apple's Jade without getting a slap.
VROUM VROUM MAG OLBG Mares' Hurdle (6/4 with 188BET) Vroum Vroum Mag is probably going for the mares' 
hurdle. I'd have no problems with her going back over fences someday. She was terrible in Doncaster last time. I 
think she had a bit of a cold and we gave her some antibiotics when we got her home. She's coming back now and 
we're much happier with her.
DOUVAN Betway Champion Chase (1/4 with 188BET) Douvan is in good order, everything has gone well. At this 
stage, we're just trying to get there in one piece. He's a lovely, relaxed individual. He's always in control, he's 
always got the scope to go in close or stand back. He seems to have everything. I've said in the past that he could 
be the best that I've ever had, but he's still a long way to go.
CARTER MCKAY Weatherbys Champion Bumper (100/30 with 188BET) He'd look the best of ours based on his 
run the last day. The ground wouldn't be a worry for him. Patrick knows him well, it will be hard to dislodge him. His 
performance the other day compares favourably with anything my previous winners have done.
UN DE SCEAUX Ryanair Chase (3/1 with 188BET) He wants to race every time he gets on the gallop and be 
competitive. You're wondering with a horse like him, can he go out there every morning and do that without pulling 
a muscle or overreaching? The Ryanair is the plan. The trip isn't a concern with him. He could probably get three 
miles now. He's settled a lot better than he used to in his races which makes him easier to ride.
YORKHILL JLT Novices' Chase (13/8 with 188BET) All is good with him, he'll go to the JLT. I was slightly tempted 
about the Champion Hurdle. At Christmas time I thought I had the other two for the Champion [Faugheen and Annie 
Power], so we went over fences with him. I had a quick chat with Graham Wylie and we agreed where we're going 
this year and we could easily come back over hurdles next year if we need to.
SHANESHILL Sun Bets Stayers' Hurdle (7/1 with 188BET) He goes for the Stayers' Hurdle along with Clondaw 
Warrior. I think both of them have improved. It's going to be tough for them, but they both have each-way chances.
LET'S DANCE Trull House Stud Mares' Novices' Hurdle (5/2 with 188BET) She will probably go for the mares' 
novice, but she could slot in any of the novice races. The mares' form seems to be good this year, I think it's 
stacking up better than the geldings. The step up in trip has helped her and she's a second season novice.
DJAKADAM Timico Cheltenham Gold Cup (5/1 with 188BET) He's in great form and hasn't had any setbacks this 
year. Last year he got that nasty cut when he ran at Cheltenham in January. This year, he's had a clear run, a 
better run to the Gold Cup. The first year he was young, the second year he had a bad prep. This year everything 
Douvan the star turn in Mullins' Festival squad Ben Cleminson reports from Irish champion trainer Willie Mullins' 
yard
has gone right. I think he's a better horse now, I was very taken with his run at Christmas. It looks a more open race 
this year.
Graphic
 
Willie Mullins is sending roughly 40 horses to CheltenhamDouvan, winner of the 2016 Racing Post Arkle, is one of 
Willie Mullins' main contenders at this year's Cheltenham Festival
Load-Date: February 28, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair deepens push into Frankfurt airport with new routes
Ryanair deepens push into Frankfurt airport with new routes
Business World (Digest)
February 28, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 119 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Irish low cost carrier Ryanair ramped up expansion from Frankfurt airport, announcing 20 new routes and saying it 
will base seven planes there in a further challenge to Lufthansa at its home base.
Ryanair had first announced plans to move into Frankfurt in November, stepping up its push into bigger airports and 
ratcheting up pressure on Lufthansa, which is expanding its own budget flights.
It will start with two aircraft flying to four tourist destinations in Spain and Portugal from next month.
The new routes from winter include cities such as London, Glasgow, Manchester, plus more traditional tourist 
destinations such as Gran Canaria and Tenerife, Ryanair said on Tuesday.(Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: March 9, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair to reinforce Frankfurt Main Budget carrier Ryanair is to reinforce its new Frankfurt Main operation with 
services including London Stansted, Madrid and ....
Ryanair to reinforce Frankfurt Main; Budget carrier Ryanair is to reinforce its 
new Frankfurt Main operation with services including London Stansted, 
Madrid and Milan, as part of a broad expansion from the German hub.
Flight International
February 28, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 153 words
Body
Budget carrier Ryanair is to reinforce its new Frankfurt Main operation with services including London Stansted, 
Madrid and Milan, as part of a broad expansion from the German hub.
The airline disclosed plans last year to establish a base at Frankfurt's primary airport, initially with leisure routes.
But it is to expand its operation by basing seven aircraft at the hub and taking its network to 20 destinations, 
including five in Italy, and seven in Spain and the Canary Islands,
Ryanair will also operate to Athens, Barcelona, Brindisi, Catania, Glasgow, Gran Canaria, Krakow, Lanzarote, 
Lisbon, Madrid, Milan, Pisa, Porto, Seville, Tenerife, Toulouse, Valencia and Venice.
The airline says it will introduce the routes as part of its winter 2017-18 schedule.
Its expansion will give the airline a total of 24 routes from Frankfurt Main following its decision to open Alicante, 
Faro, Malaga and Palma on 28 March this year.
Load-Date: March 1, 2017
End of Document
Seven Eight Capital LP Acquires New Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Seven Eight Capital LP Acquires New Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
February 27, 2017 Monday 8:21 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 824 words
Byline: Lindsey Winhoffer
Body
Feb 27, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Seven Eight Capital LP 
acquired a new position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the fourth quarter, Holdings Channel[1] 
reports. The institutional investor acquired 3,197 shares of the company's stock, valued at approximately $266,000.  
Other institutional investors have also recently bought and sold shares of the company. Capital Research Global 
Investors boosted its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 17.2% in the third quarter. 
Capital Research Global Investors now owns 8,373,690 shares of the company's stock worth $628,278,000 after 
buying an additional 1,230,762 shares in the last quarter. Capital International Investors boosted its stake in 
Ryanair Holdings plc by 1.6% in the third quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 4,380,192 shares of the 
company's stock worth $328,646,000 after buying an additional 70,214 shares in the last quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC boosted its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 33.7% in the third quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 3,330,852 shares of the company's stock worth $249,913,000 after buying an 
additional 838,744 shares in the last quarter. Janus Capital Management LLC boosted its stake in Ryanair Holdings 
plc by 126.4% in the fourth quarter. Janus Capital Management LLC now owns 3,101,381 shares of the company's 
stock worth $258,254,000 after buying an additional 1,731,481 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Neuberger 
Berman Group LLC boosted its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 27.3% in the third quarter. Neuberger Berman 
Group LLC now owns 2,670,534 shares of the company's stock worth $200,370,000 after buying an additional 
572,293 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 42.80% of the company's stock. 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded down 0.18% during midday trading on Monday, hitting $81.05. 
The company had a trading volume of 125,435 shares. The stock has a 50 day moving average price of $83.38 and 
a 200-day moving average price of $78.72. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $66.09 and a 52 week high 
of $89.67. The stock has a market capitalization of $20.00 billion, a PE ratio of 14.87 and a beta of 0.72.  This piece 
was reported by Watch List News and is the property of of Watch List News. If you are accessing this piece on 
another publication, it was illegally copied and republished in violation of international trademark and copyright laws. 
The correct version of this piece can be viewed at http://www.watchlistnews.com/seven-eight-capital-lp-acquires-
new-stake-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay/1139076.html.  Several equities research analysts recently commented on 
RYAAY shares. Barclays PLC reaffirmed a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on 
Tuesday, January 10th. Zacks Investment Research cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'sell' rating in 
a research report on Wednesday, November 23rd. Kepler Capital Markets cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'buy' 
rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Friday, February 10th. Canaccord Genuity started coverage on 
Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating on the stock. Finally, 
Seven Eight Capital LP Acquires New Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY)
Berenberg Bank started coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a research report on Friday, November 11th. They set 
a 'buy' rating on the stock. One analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have given a hold rating and six 
have issued a buy rating to the company. Ryanair Holdings plc currently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and an 
average price target of $95.33. About Ryanair Holdings plc Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding 
company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving 
short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. 
Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger 
service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food 
and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get 
the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for 
Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news 
and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily 
email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-
basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 28, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Position Reduced by Envestnet Asset Management Inc.
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Position Reduced by Envestnet Asset 
Management Inc.
Watchlist News
February 24, 2017 Friday 7:11 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 874 words
Byline: Micah Haroldson
Body
Feb 24, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Envestnet Asset 
Management Inc. reduced its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 5.4% during the 
fourth quarter, according to its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The firm 
owned 35,545 shares of the company's stock after selling 2,035 shares during the period. Envestnet Asset 
Management Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc were worth $2,956,000 as of its most recent SEC filing. 
 Several other institutional investors have also recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. Capital 
Research Global Investors raised its position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 17.2% in the third quarter. Capital 
Research Global Investors now owns 8,373,690 shares of the company's stock worth $628,278,000 after buying an 
additional 1,230,762 shares in the last quarter. Capital International Investors raised its position in Ryanair Holdings 
plc by 27.3% in the second quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 4,309,978 shares of the company's 
stock worth $299,716,000 after buying an additional 925,015 shares in the last quarter. Lazard Asset Management 
LLC raised its position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 33.7% in the third quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now 
owns 3,330,852 shares of the company's stock worth $249,913,000 after buying an additional 838,744 shares in 
the last quarter. Capital Guardian Trust Co. raised its position in Ryanair Holdings plc by 193.6% in the second 
quarter. Capital Guardian Trust Co. now owns 1,161,850 shares of the company's stock worth $80,795,000 after 
buying an additional 766,059 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Neuberger Berman Group LLC raised its position in 
Ryanair Holdings plc by 27.3% in the third quarter. Neuberger Berman Group LLC now owns 2,670,534 shares of 
the company's stock worth $200,370,000 after buying an additional 572,293 shares in the last quarter. 42.80% of 
the stock is currently owned by institutional investors. Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) 
remained flat at $81.24 during trading on Friday. The company's stock had a trading volume of 85,389 shares. The 
firm has a 50 day moving average of $83.46 and a 200 day moving average of $78.64. The stock has a market cap 
of $20.05 billion, a PE ratio of 14.84 and a beta of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $66.09 and a 52 
week high of $89.67.  'Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Position Reduced by Envestnet Asset Management Inc.' was 
first reported by Watch List News and is the property of of Watch List News. If you are viewing this piece on another 
publication, it was illegally copied and republished in violation of international trademark ...pyright law. The legal 
version of this piece can be read at http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-position-reduced-by-
envestnet-asset-management-inc/1135070.html.  A number of equities analysts have recently commented on 
RYAAY shares. Deutsche Bank AG raised shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a 
research report on Monday, February 13th. Bank of America Corp lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Position Reduced by Envestnet Asset Management Inc.
'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' rating in a research report on Tuesday, January 3rd. Zacks Investment 
Research raised shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Friday, 
February 10th. HSBC Holdings plc raised shares of Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a 
research report on Wednesday, November 2nd. Finally, Berenberg Bank started coverage on shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc in a research report on Friday, November 11th. They issued a 'buy' rating on the stock. One equities 
research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have assigned a hold rating and six have issued a buy 
rating to the stock. Ryanair Holdings plc presently has an average rating of 'Hold' and an average price target of 
$95.33. About Ryanair Holdings plc Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair 
Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point 
routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various 
ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to 
see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the latest 13F filings and 
insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - 
Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for 
Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter[3]. [ 1]:       
     http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ 
[ 
3]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-
basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 24, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair warns about lack of Brexit urgency Travel & leisure
Ryanair warns about lack of Brexit urgency; Travel & leisure
Financial Times (London, England)
February 24, 2017 Friday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 18
Length: 462 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Highlight: Airline hints at cutting routes if government fails to quickly outline plan
Body
Ryanair, Europe's biggest airline by passenger numbers, has accused the UK government of failing to grasp the 
urgency of striking a deal for post-Brexit aviation , saying the industry needs a year's notice to plan schedules after 
Britain leaves the EU.
Kenny Jacobs , the low-cost airline's chief marketing officer, also painted a gloomy picture of the prospects of 
securing a deal. He cautioned that other EU member states could block the UK's continued access to the EU's 
"Open Skies" area.
The warning is the starkest yet from an airline about the potential consequences of Brexit. EU regulation is deeply 
embedded in the UK's aviation agreements not only with other European countries but with the US, which regulates 
transatlantic flights via a deal with the EU rather than individual member states.
Mr Jacobs acknowledged that the UK government had said it was inconceivable the UK would leave the liberalised 
European Open Skies area following the Brexit negotiations.
Theresa May, the prime minister, has said she will launch the exit process under Article 50 of the Lisbon treaty - 
which sets a two-year time limit for talks - next month.
Ryanair warns about lack of Brexit urgency Travel & leisure
But Mr Jacobs warned: "There isn't a plan and we need to see a plan. We're 365 days away from having to know 
what's happening with Open Skies."
The Department for Transport said that it was committed to getting the "best deal possible" from EU exit 
negotiations. "We will work closely with the international aviation community to ensure that this global industry 
continues to be a major success story for the UK economy," it said.
Ryanair, which is based in Dublin, has already scaled down its plans for growth in the UK in response to Brexit. It 
said its growth from London airports next winter would slow to 2 per cent, from 10 per cent this winter. The airline is 
instead deploying new aircraft in Romania, Bulgaria and other markets.
Mr Jacobs hinted that routes might have to be cut if there was no clarity about an EU deal within a year.
"If we don't know this time next year, what are airlines going to do?" he asked. "Are we going to have to make 
significant capacity cuts?"
Open Skies gives all EU airlines the right to fly between member states and domestically within member states. But 
Mr Jacobs pointed out that member states submit under Open Skies to the authority of the European Court of 
Justice, which the UK government has rul-ed out for any post-Brexit settlement.
He said the most likely scenarios for the UK were striking individual, bilateral aviation agreements with EU member 
states or a deal with the EU as a whole. A deal with the whole EU would require all member states' agreement, 
meaning individual countries' grievances - such as Spain's unhappiness over UK control of Gibraltar - could hold up 
an agreement.
Load-Date: February 23, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair announces launch of London winter schedule for 2017
Ryanair announces launch of London winter schedule for 2017
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
February 23, 2017 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 344 words
Highlight: Ryanair, an Irish low-cost airline, has announced the launch of its London winter schedule for 2017.
Body
The London winter schedule for 2017 includes 3 new London Stansted routes to Aalborg, Oradea and Pardubice, 6 
new winter services to Cagliari, Copenhagen, Naples, Nice, Oslo Torp and Ponta Delgada, more flights on 13 
existing routes and over 140 routes in total, which will deliver 23.8m customers p.a. in total at Ryanair&#39;s 3 
London Airports, supporting 17,000 jobs.Ryanair will continue to connect London with major business centers on 
high frequency, low fare services including Berlin (4 daily), Dublin (18 daily), Edinburgh (4 daily) and Madrid (4 
daily), with better timings and lower fares, making Ryanair the ideal choice for London business and leisure 
customers and visitors, and these new routes will go on sale in February 2017.Ryanair&#39;s London summer 
2017 schedule is attracting record bookings, with more frequencies to sun destinations for summer family holidays, 
lower fares as Ryanair passes on lower fuel costs, and an even better customer experience, as it continues to roll 
out its "Always Getting Better" improvements.In London, Ryanair&#39;s Kenny Jacobs said: "We are pleased to 
launch our biggest-ever London winter schedule, with 9 new London Stansted winter routes and extra flights on 13 
existing routes, which will deliver 23.8m customers p.a. and support over 17,000 jobs at Ryanair&#39;s three 
London airports. 
We are also pleased to report record bookings on our London summer 2017 schedule, and customers can look 
forward to even lower fares, so there&#39;s never been a better time to book a low fare flight on Ryanair. We urge 
all customers who wish to book their holidays to do so now on the Ryanair.com website or mobile app, where they 
can avail of the lowest fare air travel to and from London."To celebrate the launch of our London winter 2017 
schedule we are releasing seats for sale across our European network from just GBP9.99, which are available for 
booking until midnight Monday (27 Feb). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers 
should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: March 1, 2017
Ryanair announces launch of London winter schedule for 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches St. Paddy's weekend extras
Ryanair launches St. Paddy's weekend extras
Business World (Digest)
February 23, 2017 Thursday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 167 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair yesterday launched two extra Dublin-London flights for rugby customers travelling home from the Six 
Nations and St Patrick’s Day celebrations, following record demand from customers.   Ryanair’s extras will depart 
Dublin at 11.55hrs and 14.10hrs on Sunday 19th March, following the St Patrick’s Day parade on Friday, 17th 
March and the Ireland-England Six Nations match on Saturday 18th March.   These extra flights are now on sale 
now.
Commenting on the announcement, Ryanair’s Chief Marketing Officer, Robin Kiely said, "We’ve had record 
bookings on our Dublin routes for St Patrick’s weekend, with customers travelling in huge numbers for the parade 
and the final Six Nations match between Ireland and England. Due to huge demand, we’ve scheduled two extra 
Dublin-London flights on Sunday, 19th March, which are on sale now on the Ryanair.com website. Please note – all 
oversize Paddy hats should be stored in hand luggage, or under the seat in front of you."
Source:www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: March 6, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches two extra Dublin-London flights
Ryanair launches two extra Dublin-London flights
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
February 22, 2017 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 140 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd., an Irish airline company, has launched two extra Dublin-London flights for rugby customers 
travelling home from the Six Nations and St Patrick's Day celebrations.
Body
Ryanair&#39;s extras will depart Dublin at 11.55hrs and 14.10hrs on Sunday 19th March, following the St 
Patrick&#39;s Day parade on Friday, 17th March and the Ireland-England Six Nations match on Saturday 18th 
March.These extra flights are now on sale now on the Ryanair.com website and are sure to be in high demand so 
customers should log on and book today.Ryanair&#39;s Robin Kiely said: "We&#39;ve had record bookings on our 
Dublin routes for St Patrick&#39;s weekend, with customers travelling in huge numbers for the parade and the final 
Six Nations match between Ireland and England. Due to huge demand, we&#39;ve scheduled two extra Dublin-
London flights on Sunday, 19th March, which are on sale now on the Ryanair.com website. Please note - all 
oversize Paddy hats should be stored in hand luggage, or under the seat in front of you."
Load-Date: February 28, 2017
End of Document
GLG Partners LP Has $2,744,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
GLG Partners LP Has $2,744,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
February 21, 2017 Tuesday 12:56 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 862 words
Byline: Mark Dietrich
Body
Feb 21, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  GLG Partners LP decreased 
its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 50.4% during the fourth quarter, Holdings Channel[1] 
reports. The fund owned 32,958 shares of the company's stock after selling 33,495 shares during the period. GLG 
Partners LP's holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were worth $2,744,000 as of its most recent filing with the SEC. 
 A number of other institutional investors have also recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. William 
Blair Investment Management LLC increased its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 31.7% in the 
second quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 1,328,219 shares of the company's stock 
worth $92,364,000 after buying an additional 319,347 shares during the last quarter. Mirae Asset Global 
Investments Co. Ltd. purchased a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter worth 
approximately $2,551,000. Todd Asset Management LLC increased its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC 
by 8.2% in the second quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now owns 294,137 shares of the company's stock 
worth $20,454,000 after buying an additional 22,361 shares during the last quarter. Manning ...pier Advisors LLC 
increased its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 2.8% in the third quarter. Manning ...pier Advisors LLC 
now owns 1,938,000 shares of the company's stock worth $145,406,000 after buying an additional 52,262 shares 
during the last quarter. Finally, Lazard Asset Management LLC increased its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings 
PLC by 33.7% in the third quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 3,330,852 shares of the company's 
stock worth $249,913,000 after buying an additional 838,744 shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors 
own 42.80% of the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded down 0.16% during 
trading on Monday, hitting $82.97. 213,985 shares of the stock were exchanged. The company has a market cap of 
$20.47 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 15.27 and a beta of 0.72. The stock's 50 day moving average is $83.45 
and its 200-day moving average is $78.32. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a one year low of $66.09 and a one year high 
of $89.67.  'GLG Partners LP Has $2,744,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)' was reported by Watch 
List News and is owned by of Watch List News. If you are viewing this piece of content on another publication, it 
was copied illegally and republished in violation of US ...ternational copyright and trademark laws. The correct 
version of this piece of content can be viewed at http://www.watchlistnews.com/glg-partners-lp-has-2744000-
position-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay/1126941.html.  A number of equities analysts have recently weighed in on the 
stock. Zacks Investment Research raised shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a 
research note on Tuesday, November 29th. Bank of America Corp cut shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 
'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' rating in a research note on Tuesday, January 3rd. Berenberg Bank assumed 
coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Friday, November 11th. They set a 'buy' rating 
GLG Partners LP Has $2,744,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
on the stock. Canaccord Genuity assumed coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on 
Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating on the stock. Finally, Deutsche Bank AG raised shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research note on Monday, February 13th. One equities 
research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold rating and six have assigned a buy 
rating to the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings PLC presently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and a consensus 
price target of $95.33. Ryanair Holdings PLC Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding 
company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving 
short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. 
Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger 
service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food 
and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get 
the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for 
Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news 
and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily 
email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-
basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 21, 2017
End of Document
A320 crew did not comply with ATC
A320 crew did not comply with ATC
Flight International
February 21, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AIR TRANSPORT
Length: 297 words
Body
Spanish investigators have determined that a Vueling Airbus A320 crew substantially exceeded a descent rate 
restriction before an airprox encounter with a Ryanair Boeing 737, and then failed to follow a collision-avoidance 
resolution.
The Seville-bound A320 had been descending initially to 25,000ft having been given a maximum descent rate of 
2,000ft/min.
Spanish investigation authority CIAIAC says that a Ryanair 737 heading for Malaga had been cleared to descend to 
15,000ft at 2,000ft/min or higher, in order to ensure separation between the converging flights.
But the Vueling crew increased the A320’s descent rate to as much as 5,000ft/min in order to reach the optimum 
altitude for the Seville approach, says the inquiry.
When the flight was cleared further to 17,000ft the controller did not advise that descent restrictions were still in 
effect.
As the vertical distance between the flights closed, their collision-avoidance systems issued resolution advisories.
CIAIAC says the Vueling A320’s advisory ordered an adjustment of vertical speed, but states that the first officer 
acted “contrary” to the instruction, disconnecting the autopilot and increasing the rate of descent.
The collision-avoidance system subsequently changed its instruction, ordering the aircraft to climb.
CIAIAC says the captain attempted to take control from the first officer, did not switch control priority. This resulted 
in a dual-input warning as both pilots sought to arrest the descent.
None of the occupants were injured and neither aircraft was damaged. CIAIAC attributes the airprox to the fact that 
the Vueling crew “did not comply” with descent instructions originally given by Seville air traffic control.
The advisory ordered the Vueling pilots to adjust their vertical speed
A320 crew did not comply with ATC
Rex Shutterstock
Load-Date: February 21, 2017
End of Document
dpa trends has moved the following Travel and Events reports
dpa trends has moved the following Travel and Events reports
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
February 18, 2017 Saturday 1:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 242 words
Byline: Coman Hamilton, +49 30 2852 31472, <, international@dpa.com, ;
Body
Halal holidays: What matters most to the Muslim tourist?By Steven Hille, dpa
Words: 808 - Photos: 2
-------------
You now have to pay to watch one of the world's most popular sunrises
Words: 132 - Photos: 1
-------------
Why can't you lift the armrests on the aisle? There's a good reason
Words: 140 - Photos: 1
-------------
Too beautiful to be true? Lithuanian tourism has credibility issues
Words: 224 - Photos: 1
-------------
Bombed building outside Berlin reopens as Impressionist art galleryBy Gudrun Janicke and Maria Bidian, dpa
Words: 515 - Photos: 3
------------- 
dpa trends has moved the following Travel and Events reports
Holiday company Club Med plans 15 new resorts across the globe
Words: 101 - Photos: 1
-------------
Degas to Picasso: Oxford offers rare view of private collection
Words: 256 - Photos: 2
-------------
No whisky!? Scotland turns to gin and coffee in Glasgow festivals
Words: 132 - Photos: 1
-------------
Jazzuary, February, March: Brussels makes 2017 year of jazz
Words: 136 - Photos: 1
-------------
Low-cost airline Ryanair thinks cabin luggage problem is out-of-hand
Words: 145 - Photos: 1
-------------
The texts and images are exclusively available to dpa trends customers. Clients can access the content as of now 
via our dpa-news.de portal.
New clients: please get in touch with the dpa Sales office or your regional sales rep to obtain terms of access to dpa 
trends.
Contact:Rainer Finke Director International Sales & Marketing, dpa German Press Agency Tel. +49 40 4113 32310 
E-Mail rainer.finke@dpa.com
Load-Date: February 18, 2017
End of Document
Analysts Set Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Price Target at $95.00
Analysts Set Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Price Target at $95.00
DailyPolitical
February 18, 2017 Saturday 12:18 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 715 words
Byline: Tyrone Williams
Body
Feb 18, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) have received a consensus rating of 'Hold' from the thirteen brokerages that are currently 
covering the company. One equities research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold 
rating and six have issued a buy rating on the company. The average 12-month target price among analysts that 
have updated their coverage on the stock in the last year is $95.00.  A number of analysts have weighed in on the 
company. 
Canaccord Genuity assumed coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Thursday, January 26th. 
They issued a 'buy' rating for the company. Zacks Investment Research raised Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'sell' 
rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Tuesday, December 13th. Barclays PLC reaffirmed a 'buy' rating on 
shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Tuesday, January 10th. Bank of America Corporation 
lowered Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' rating in a research note on Tuesday, 
January 3rd. Finally, Berenberg Bank started coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Friday, 
November 11th. They issued a 'buy' rating on the stock. Institutional investors have recently modified their holdings 
of the stock. Castleark Management LLC raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 18.0% in the 
fourth quarter. Castleark Management LLC now owns 2,095 shares of the company's stock valued at $174,000 
after buying an additional 320 shares in the last quarter. Capital Guardian Trust Co. increased its stake in Ryanair 
Holdings PLC by 14.6% in the fourth quarter. Capital Guardian Trust Co. now owns 1,275,458 shares of the 
company's stock worth $106,195,000 after buying an additional 162,808 shares during the last quarter. Capital 
International Ltd. CA increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 9.7% in the fourth quarter. Capital International 
Ltd. CA now owns 11,329 shares of the company's stock worth $943,000 after buying an additional 1,000 shares 
during the last quarter. Seven Eight Capital LP bought a new stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the fourth 
quarter worth $266,000. Finally, Freestone Capital Holdings LLC increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 
1.1% in the fourth quarter. Freestone Capital Holdings LLC now owns 4,982 shares of the company's stock worth 
$415,000 after buying an additional 53 shares during the last quarter. Hedge funds and other institutional investors 
own 42.80% of the company's stock.   'Analysts Set Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Price Target at $95.00' was 
first reported by Daily Political and is the sole property of of Daily Political. If you are reading this piece on another 
domain, it was stolen and reposted in violation of US ...ternational trademark and copyright legislation. The correct 
version of this piece can be viewed at http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/02/18/analysts-set-ryanair-holdings-plc-
ryaay-price-target-at-95-00.html.  Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) opened at 82.97 on Monday. 
Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 12-month low of $66.09 and a 12-month high of $89.67. The firm's 50-day moving 
Analysts Set Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Price Target at $95.00
average price is $0.00 and its 200-day moving average price is $0.00.  Ryanair Holdings PLC Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Receive News ...tings for Ryanair 
Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and 
analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[2]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 18, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by Zacks Investment Research
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by Zacks Investment 
Research
Watchlist News
February 17, 2017 Friday 4:36 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 874 words
Byline: Hanz Christensen
Body
Feb 17, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) was upgraded by Zacks Investment Research from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report 
issued on Friday.  According to Zacks, 'Ryanair operates an ultra-low cost, scheduled airline serving short-haul, 
point-to-point routes largely in Europe from its bases in airports across Europe. The company offers over 1,600 
scheduled short-haul flights per day serving airports largely throughout Europe, with a principal fleet of Boeing 737-
800 aircraft. 
' A number of other equities research analysts also recently issued reports on the stock. Barclays PLC reaffirmed a 
'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Tuesday, January 10th. Beaufort Securities 
reissued a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on Friday, October 21st. Canaccord Genuity 
assumed coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' 
rating on the stock. Berenberg Bank assumed coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on Friday, 
November 11th. They set a 'buy' rating on the stock. Finally, HSBC Holdings plc raised shares of Ryanair Holdings 
PLC from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Wednesday, November 2nd. One investment analyst has 
rated the stock with a sell rating, five have given a hold rating and six have issued a buy rating to the company. The 
stock has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and a consensus price target of $95.33. Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded down 0.01% during mid-day trading on Friday, hitting $83.10. 140,474 shares of the 
company's stock traded hands. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 52 week low of $66.09 and a 52 week high of $89.67. 
The company has a market cap of $20.50 billion, a PE ratio of 15.19 and a beta of 0.72. The firm has a 50-day 
moving average of $83.46 and a 200 day moving average of $78.23.  'Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stock Rating 
Upgraded by Zacks Investment Research' was originally reported by Watch List News and is the property of of 
Watch List News. If you are accessing this article on another site, it was illegally stolen and republished in violation 
of US ...ternational trademark and copyright legislation. The original version of this article can be read at 
http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-stock-rating-upgraded-by-zacks-investment-
research/1121261.html.  Several hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently bought and sold shares 
of RYAAY. William Blair Investment Management LLC raised its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 31.7% in the 
second quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 1,328,219 shares of the company's stock 
worth $92,364,000 after buying an additional 319,347 shares during the period. Mirae Asset Global Investments Co. 
Ltd. purchased a new stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter valued at approximately $2,551,000. 
Todd Asset Management LLC raised its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 8.2% in the second quarter. Todd Asset 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by Zacks Investment Research
Management LLC now owns 294,137 shares of the company's stock valued at $20,454,000 after buying an 
additional 22,361 shares during the last quarter. Manning ...pier Advisors LLC raised its stake in Ryanair Holdings 
PLC by 2.8% in the third quarter. Manning ...pier Advisors LLC now owns 1,938,000 shares of the company's stock 
valued at $145,406,000 after buying an additional 52,262 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Lazard Asset 
Management LLC raised its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 33.7% in the third quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 3,330,852 shares of the company's stock valued at $249,913,000 after buying an 
additional 838,744 shares during the last quarter. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 42.80% of the 
company's stock.  Ryanair Holdings PLC Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding 
company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving 
short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. 
Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger 
service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food 
and merchandise.Get a free copy of the Zacks research report on Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)[2] For more 
information about research offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com[3] Receive News ...tings for 
Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news 
and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily 
email newsletter[4]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=zrmodule...D=AMERBMN_CONTENT_ZER...p_rpt_name_check=s
kip_rpt_name_check...YAAY [ 3]:            http://www.zacks.com/ [ 4]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-
email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 17, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings To Commence ADS Buyback Program for Up to EUR150 Mln
Ryanair Holdings To Commence ADS Buyback Program for Up to EUR150 
Mln
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 17, 2017 Friday 2:54 PM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 164 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY), the holding company for Ryanair Limited, an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger 
airline, said in a regulatory filing Friday that it has entered into arrangements with its brokers, Citigroup Global 
Markets Limited and J&E Davy, to commence an American Depositary Shares buy-back program to repurchase on 
its behalf, ordinary shares of EUR0.006 each underlying ADSs.
The company said that these arrangements include the provision for it  to give irrevocable instructions to Citigroup 
and Davy to purchase ADS during the company's closed periods without influence from the company. The purpose 
of the ADS buy-back program is to reduce the share capital of the company. Accordingly, all shares repurchased 
will be cancelled.
The maximum consideration payable by the company in respect of repurchases of shares underlying ADS under 
these arrangements is up to EUR150 million. 
RYAAY is down marginally in recent trading.
Price: 82.81, Change: -0.29, Percent Change: -0.35
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by Zacks Investment Research
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by Zacks Investment 
Research
DailyPolitical
February 17, 2017 Friday 6:16 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 840 words
Byline: Jeff Wilder
Body
Feb 
17, 
2017( 
DailyPolitical: 
http://www.dailypolitical.com/ 
Delivered 
by 
Newstex) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.dailypolitical.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgZacks Investment Research upgraded shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) from a sell rating to a hold rating in a report published on Friday morning.  
According to Zacks, 'Ryanair operates an ultra-low cost, scheduled airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes 
largely in Europe from its bases in airports across Europe. 
The company offers over 1,600 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving airports largely throughout Europe, with 
a principal fleet of Boeing 737-800 aircraft. ' Other equities analysts have also issued research reports about the 
company. Barclays PLC reaffirmed a buy rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Tuesday, 
January 10th. Beaufort Securities reaffirmed a buy rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on 
Friday, October 21st. BNP Paribas reaffirmed a buy rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on 
Thursday, October 20th. HSBC Holdings plc raised Ryanair Holdings PLC from a reduce rating to a hold rating in a 
research note on Wednesday, November 2nd. Finally, Canaccord Genuity assumed coverage on Ryanair Holdings 
PLC in a research note on Thursday, January 26th. They issued a buy rating for the company. One analyst has 
rated the stock with a sell rating, five have given a hold rating and six have given a buy rating to the stock. The 
company presently has an average rating of Hold and an average price target of $95.33.  Shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded down 0.01% during trading on Friday, reaching $83.10. The company's 
stock had a trading volume of 140,474 shares. The stock has a market cap of $20.50 billion, a price-to-earnings 
ratio of 15.19 and a beta of 0.72. The company has a 50 day moving average of $83.46 and a 200-day moving 
average of $78.23. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 12-month low of $66.09 and a 12-month high of $89.67.  This piece 
of content was first published by Daily Political and is the property of of Daily Political. If you are reading this piece 
of content on another publication, it was stolen and reposted in violation of U.S. and international copyright and 
trademark 
laws. 
The 
original 
version 
of 
this 
piece 
of 
content 
can 
be 
read 
at 
http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/02/16/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-stock-rating-upgraded-by-zacks-investment-
research.html.  Institutional investors have recently made changes to their positions in the stock. Smithfield Trust 
Co. raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. now 
owns 1,616 shares of the company's stock worth $113,000 after buying an additional 15 shares during the last 
quarter. Quantbot Technologies LP raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 236.6% in the third 
quarter. Quantbot Technologies LP now owns 1,656 shares of the company's stock worth $124,000 after buying an 
additional 1,164 shares during the last quarter. Tyers Asset Management LLC purchased a new position in shares 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by Zacks Investment Research
of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the fourth quarter worth approximately $133,000. Flinton Capital Management LLC 
purchased a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the fourth quarter worth approximately 
$161,000. Finally, Castleark Management LLC raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 18.0% in 
the fourth quarter. Castleark Management LLC now owns 2,095 shares of the company's stock worth $174,000 
after buying an additional 320 shares during the last quarter. 42.80% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
Ryanair Holdings PLC Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair 
Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point 
routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various 
ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.Get a free 
copy of the Zacks research report on Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)[2] For more information about research 
offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com[3] Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC 
Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings 
for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter[4]. [ 1]:            
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=zrmodule...D=AMERBMN_CONTENT_ZER...p_rpt_name_check=s
kip_rpt_name_check...YAAY [ 3]:            http://www.zacks.com/ [ 4]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 17, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Chief Warns Of Flight Suspension Risk Amid "Cliff-Edge" Brexit
Ryanair Chief Warns Of Flight Suspension Risk Amid "Cliff-Edge" Brexit
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 16, 2017 Thursday 10:02 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 338 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings PLC Chief Executive Officer Michael O'Leary has warned there is a remote chance of all flights 
between the UK and Europe being suspended in March 2019 if the UK government opts for a "cliff-edge" Brexit.
The businessman said the current open skies arrangement hinges on recognising the jurisdiction of the European 
Court of Justice, which Prime Minister Theresa May said Britain would no longer be subject to.
O'Leary believes it will take more than the two-year time frame from triggering Article 50 to put agreements in place 
with European Union (EU) nations.
He said: "In the airline industry we could be heading for a very difficult divorce with Europe. There is a possibility, 
unlikely, but nevertheless a possibility that there may be no flights between the UK and Europe in March 2019 if the 
UK walks off this cliff that they seem determined to walk off."
The airline head said he was switching growth plans away from the UK and would not create any more pilot or 
cabin crew posts, or increase the amount of planes there due to Brexit uncertainty.
He said new routes announced in Scotland on Thursday would use planes based elsewhere in Europe and would 
move to other European countries in the event of a hard Brexit.
O'Leary accused the UK government of being clueless over Brexit and hoped that the UK would stay in the EU.
He said: "Brexit - no exit plan by the UK government. I don't think they have a clue what they are engaged in. I've 
had a number of meetings in London in recent weeks where they are going to do a great deal for Britain, and then I 
got to Frankfurt and
Brussels and Paris where they are determined to do Britain down, and I fear they will."
Ryanair Chief Warns Of Flight Suspension Risk Amid "Cliff-Edge" Brexit
"We have to recognise the will of the the people, they did vote in a referendum, however they were fundamentally 
misled into believing they could leave Europe and nothing would change. Everything is going to change, and 
probably for the worse," O'Leary said.
By Laura Paterson, Political Reporter, Press Association Scotland
source: Press Association
Load-Date: February 17, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Chief Warns Of Flight Suspension Risk Amid "Cliff-Edge" Brexit
Ryanair Chief Warns Of Flight Suspension Risk Amid "Cliff-Edge" Brexit
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
February 16, 2017 Thursday 10:02 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 338 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings PLC Chief Executive Officer Michael O'Leary has warned there is a remote chance of all flights 
between the UK and Europe being suspended in March 2019 if the UK government opts for a "cliff-edge" Brexit.
The businessman said the current open skies arrangement hinges on recognising the jurisdiction of the European 
Court of Justice, which Prime Minister Theresa May said Britain would no longer be subject to.
O'Leary believes it will take more than the two-year time frame from triggering Article 50 to put agreements in place 
with European Union (EU) nations.
He said: "In the airline industry we could be heading for a very difficult divorce with Europe. There is a possibility, 
unlikely, but nevertheless a possibility that there may be no flights between the UK and Europe in March 2019 if the 
UK walks off this cliff that they seem determined to walk off."
The airline head said he was switching growth plans away from the UK and would not create any more pilot or 
cabin crew posts, or increase the amount of planes there due to Brexit uncertainty.
He said new routes announced in Scotland on Thursday would use planes based elsewhere in Europe and would 
move to other European countries in the event of a hard Brexit.
O'Leary accused the UK government of being clueless over Brexit and hoped that the UK would stay in the EU.
He said: "Brexit - no exit plan by the UK government. I don't think they have a clue what they are engaged in. I've 
had a number of meetings in London in recent weeks where they are going to do a great deal for Britain, and then I 
got to Frankfurt and
Brussels and Paris where they are determined to do Britain down, and I fear they will."
"We have to recognise the will of the the people, they did vote in a referendum, however they were fundamentally 
misled into believing they could leave Europe and nothing would change. Everything is going to change, and 
probably for the worse," O'Leary said.
Ryanair Chief Warns Of Flight Suspension Risk Amid "Cliff-Edge" Brexit
By Laura Paterson, Political Reporter, Press Association Scotland
source: Press Association
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
End of Document
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Airlines Up As Cobham Suffers From Profit Warning
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Airlines Up As Cobham Suffers From Profit 
Warning
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 16, 2017 Thursday 3:42 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 842 words
Body
 Stocks in London opened slightly lower on Thursday, giving back some of the US-driven gains made on 
Wednesday, with airline stocks in favour and oil producers falling after amid soft crude prices. 
The FTSE 100 index was down 0.2%, or 14.40 points, at 7,288.01. The FTSE 250 index was down 0.1% at 
18,810.16, but the AIM All-Share was up 0.1% at 907.55.
Stocks going ex-dividend also were dragging on London's indices, with blue-chips Imperial Brands  down 1.3% and 
AstraZeneza down 2.7%, among others. 
Cobham was the worst FTSE 250 performer after announcing a further profit warning for 2016.
The BATS UK 100 index was down 0.3% at 12,337.13, and the BATS 250 was 0.1% lower at 17,112.36, but the 
BATS Small Companies index was up 0.1% at 10,988.67.
The US Energy Information Administration said on Wednesday that US stockpiles rose 9.5 million barrels in the 
week ended on February 10, confirming an industry report late Tuesday. Though this was below the 13.8 million 
barrels increase reported for the previous week, the EIA said total US inventories are at an all-time peak of 518.12 
million barrels, while gasoline stocks also touched a record.
Oil prices have remained on the back foot so far this week, with Brent oil having reached USD56.79 on Monday but 
being quoted on Thursday morning at USD55.84. Nevertheless, the North Sea benchmark was firm against the 
level at the London equities close on Wednesday of USD55.75 a barrel. 
Royal Dutch Shell 'A' shares were down 1.1%, while BP was down 0.8%.
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Airlines Up As Cobham Suffers From Profit Warning
Airline stocks were the main gainers in the FTSE 100, with British Airways-owner International Consolidated Airlines 
Group up 2.6% and easyJet up 1.4%. FTSE 250-listed Wizz Air Holdings was up 1.3%. Meanwhile, Ryanair 
Holdings was up 0.9%.
Airline stocks received a boost after Air France-KLM reported higher net profit in its fourth quarter, rising to EUR362 
million from EUR276 million in the prior year. Paris-listed Air France-KLM shares were 7.8%. 
Wizz Air also announced the opening of a new base at Luton airport, north of London.
The CAC 40 index in Paris and the DAX 30 in Frankfurt were both flat.  
In Asia on Thursday, the Japanese Nikkei 225 index closed down 0.5%, retreating from a strong 1.0% gain on 
Wednesday. In China, the Shanghai Composite rose 0.5%, while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong ended 0.5% 
higher. 
In a thin economic calendar on Thursday, US initial and continuing jobless claims are at 1330 GMT, as is the 
Philadelphia Fed manufacturing survey.
But before that, the European Central Bank releases at 1230 GMT the accounts of its last monetary policy meeting 
held on January 19.
"The ECB minutes will likely show strong support for the need for a sustained adjustment of inflation. We will also 
be looking for further information on the implementation of purchases of bonds trading below the deposit rate," says 
Societe Generale analyst Michala Marcussen.
ECB President Mario Draghi struck a largely dovish tone in his press conference after the January meeting, as he 
said he is unconvinced by the recent rise in inflation.
Preliminary data from Eurostat released last month after the ECB meeting showed that eurozone inflation 
accelerated strongly in January, led by energy prices, while the core figure held steady. The eurozone consumer 
price index rose 1.8% year-on-year following 1.1% increase in December. Core inflation, which excludes energy, 
food, alcohol and tobacco prices, was 0.9% in January, unchanged from December.
In January, the ECB left its key interest rates unchanged and retained its asset purchases of EUR80 billion a month 
till March. Thereafter, asset purchases will be reduced to EUR60 billion a month until December 2017. Asset 
purchases can be extended beyond December if necessary, the ECB added.
Elsewhere in London, Lancashire Holdings was up 7.1% despite saying its profit and premiums written dropped in 
2016 amid pressure on prices. The specialist insurer reported a pretax profit of USD150.4 million for 2016, down 
12% from USD171.7 million the prior year. 
Aldermore Group and Shawbrook were up 3.7% and 2.9%, respectively, after Panmure Gordon initiated both 
challenger banks with a Buy recommendation. 
Cobham was down 21%. The firm announced a further profit warning for 2016 and said meeting expectations in 
2017 will be challenging, as it booked a series of new writedowns following a review of the business.
Cobham had already in January warned on its 2016 results, its third downgrade for the year, and it added a fourth 
warning on Thursday. The defence and aerospace engineer said its underlying trading profit will be around 
GBP225.0 million, compared to the GBP245.0 million to which it had already cut its guidance back in January.
In addition, Cobham said it feels delivering a performance in 2017 in line with 2016 may prove "challenging". It said 
the woes it has suffered in 2016 have been caused by a number of operational issues across the business. While 
measures are being taken to remedy these problems, they are at an early stage and won't provide an immediate 
improvement.
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Airlines Up As Cobham Suffers From Profit Warning
Load-Date: February 17, 2017
End of Document
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Airlines Up As Cobham Suffers From Profit Warning
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Airlines Up As Cobham Suffers From Profit 
Warning
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
February 16, 2017 Thursday 3:42 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 842 words
Body
 Stocks in London opened slightly lower on Thursday, giving back some of the US-driven gains made on 
Wednesday, with airline stocks in favour and oil producers falling after amid soft crude prices. 
The FTSE 100 index was down 0.2%, or 14.40 points, at 7,288.01. The FTSE 250 index was down 0.1% at 
18,810.16, but the AIM All-Share was up 0.1% at 907.55.
Stocks going ex-dividend also were dragging on London's indices, with blue-chips Imperial Brands  down 1.3% and 
AstraZeneza down 2.7%, among others. 
Cobham was the worst FTSE 250 performer after announcing a further profit warning for 2016.
The BATS UK 100 index was down 0.3% at 12,337.13, and the BATS 250 was 0.1% lower at 17,112.36, but the 
BATS Small Companies index was up 0.1% at 10,988.67.
The US Energy Information Administration said on Wednesday that US stockpiles rose 9.5 million barrels in the 
week ended on February 10, confirming an industry report late Tuesday. Though this was below the 13.8 million 
barrels increase reported for the previous week, the EIA said total US inventories are at an all-time peak of 518.12 
million barrels, while gasoline stocks also touched a record.
Oil prices have remained on the back foot so far this week, with Brent oil having reached USD56.79 on Monday but 
being quoted on Thursday morning at USD55.84. Nevertheless, the North Sea benchmark was firm against the 
level at the London equities close on Wednesday of USD55.75 a barrel. 
Royal Dutch Shell 'A' shares were down 1.1%, while BP was down 0.8%.
Airline stocks were the main gainers in the FTSE 100, with British Airways-owner International Consolidated Airlines 
Group up 2.6% and easyJet up 1.4%. FTSE 250-listed Wizz Air Holdings was up 1.3%. Meanwhile, Ryanair 
Holdings was up 0.9%.
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Airlines Up As Cobham Suffers From Profit Warning
Airline stocks received a boost after Air France-KLM reported higher net profit in its fourth quarter, rising to EUR362 
million from EUR276 million in the prior year. Paris-listed Air France-KLM shares were 7.8%. 
Wizz Air also announced the opening of a new base at Luton airport, north of London.
The CAC 40 index in Paris and the DAX 30 in Frankfurt were both flat.  
In Asia on Thursday, the Japanese Nikkei 225 index closed down 0.5%, retreating from a strong 1.0% gain on 
Wednesday. In China, the Shanghai Composite rose 0.5%, while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong ended 0.5% 
higher. 
In a thin economic calendar on Thursday, US initial and continuing jobless claims are at 1330 GMT, as is the 
Philadelphia Fed manufacturing survey.
But before that, the European Central Bank releases at 1230 GMT the accounts of its last monetary policy meeting 
held on January 19.
"The ECB minutes will likely show strong support for the need for a sustained adjustment of inflation. We will also 
be looking for further information on the implementation of purchases of bonds trading below the deposit rate," says 
Societe Generale analyst Michala Marcussen.
ECB President Mario Draghi struck a largely dovish tone in his press conference after the January meeting, as he 
said he is unconvinced by the recent rise in inflation.
Preliminary data from Eurostat released last month after the ECB meeting showed that eurozone inflation 
accelerated strongly in January, led by energy prices, while the core figure held steady. The eurozone consumer 
price index rose 1.8% year-on-year following 1.1% increase in December. Core inflation, which excludes energy, 
food, alcohol and tobacco prices, was 0.9% in January, unchanged from December.
In January, the ECB left its key interest rates unchanged and retained its asset purchases of EUR80 billion a month 
till March. Thereafter, asset purchases will be reduced to EUR60 billion a month until December 2017. Asset 
purchases can be extended beyond December if necessary, the ECB added.
Elsewhere in London, Lancashire Holdings was up 7.1% despite saying its profit and premiums written dropped in 
2016 amid pressure on prices. The specialist insurer reported a pretax profit of USD150.4 million for 2016, down 
12% from USD171.7 million the prior year. 
Aldermore Group and Shawbrook were up 3.7% and 2.9%, respectively, after Panmure Gordon initiated both 
challenger banks with a Buy recommendation. 
Cobham was down 21%. The firm announced a further profit warning for 2016 and said meeting expectations in 
2017 will be challenging, as it booked a series of new writedowns following a review of the business.
Cobham had already in January warned on its 2016 results, its third downgrade for the year, and it added a fourth 
warning on Thursday. The defence and aerospace engineer said its underlying trading profit will be around 
GBP225.0 million, compared to the GBP245.0 million to which it had already cut its guidance back in January.
In addition, Cobham said it feels delivering a performance in 2017 in line with 2016 may prove "challenging". It said 
the woes it has suffered in 2016 have been caused by a number of operational issues across the business. While 
measures are being taken to remedy these problems, they are at an early stage and won't provide an immediate 
improvement.
Load-Date: March 23, 2017
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Airlines Up As Cobham Suffers From Profit Warning
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Receives $95.00 Consensus Target Price from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Receives $95.00 Consensus Target Price 
from Analysts
Watchlist News
February 16, 2017 Thursday 7:46 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 736 words
Byline: Nicole Kennedy
Body
Feb 16, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Shares of Ryanair Holdings 
PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have been given an average rating of 'Hold' by the thirteen research firms that are 
presently covering the firm. One investment analyst has rated the stock with a sell recommendation, five have 
assigned a hold recommendation and six have assigned a buy recommendation to the company. The average 12-
month price objective among brokerages that have covered the stock in the last year is $95.00.  A number of 
research firms recently weighed in on RYAAY. 
Zacks Investment Research raised Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on 
Tuesday, December 13th. Bank of America Corporation cut Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'neutral' rating to an 
'underperform' rating in a report on Tuesday, January 3rd. BNP Paribas reaffirmed a 'buy' rating on shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on Thursday, October 20th. Beaufort Securities reaffirmed a 'buy' rating on shares 
of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on Friday, October 21st. Finally, Berenberg Bank began coverage on Ryanair 
Holdings PLC in a report on Friday, November 11th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. This piece of content 
was reported by Watch List News and is the property of of Watch List News. If you are viewing this piece of content 
on another domain, it was illegally stolen and reposted in violation of international trademark and copyright 
legislation. The original version of this piece of content can be accessed at http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-
holdings-plc-ryaay-receives-95-00-consensus-target-price-from-analysts/1119185.html.  A number of hedge funds 
and other institutional investors have recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. Huntington National Bank 
raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 153.1% in the second quarter. Huntington National Bank 
now owns 4,287 shares of the company's stock worth $298,000 after buying an additional 2,593 shares during the 
last quarter. Herndon Capital Management LLC purchased a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC 
during the second quarter worth approximately $501,000. Smithfield Trust Co. raised its position in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. now owns 1,616 shares of the 
company's stock worth $113,000 after buying an additional 15 shares during the last quarter. Hussman Strategic 
Advisors Inc. raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 50.0% in the second quarter. Hussman 
Strategic Advisors Inc. now owns 75,000 shares of the company's stock worth $5,216,000 after buying an additional 
25,000 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Todd Asset Management LLC raised its position in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC by 8.2% in the second quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now owns 294,137 shares of the 
company's stock worth $20,454,000 after buying an additional 22,361 shares during the last quarter. Hedge funds 
and other institutional investors own 42.80% of the company's stock.  Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Receives $95.00 Consensus Target Price from Analysts
opened at 83.11 on Monday. The company's 50-day moving average price is $83.48 and its 200 day moving 
average price is $78.20. The firm has a market capitalization of $20.51 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 15.19 and 
a beta of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 52-week low of $66.09 and a 52-week high of $89.67.  About Ryanair 
Holdings PLC Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair 
operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, 
the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and 
engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, 
Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.Receive News ...tings for 
Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news 
and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily 
email newsletter[2]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 16, 2017
End of Document
ANALYSIS: Ancillary revenue gains hinge on ending siloed approach; Ancillary products and services are 
already an established part of the seat-vending mix for m....
ANALYSIS: Ancillary revenue gains hinge on ending siloed approach; 
Ancillary products and services are already an established part of the seat-
vending mix for most airlines, but an exciting trend is emerging that points 
to increasing gains to be had by those willing to embrace the full potential of 
e-commerce methodology and detach themselves from the siloed thinking of 
the past.
Flight International
February 16, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 2747 words
Body
Ancillary products and services are already an established part of the seat-vending mix for most airlines, but an 
exciting trend is emerging that points to increasing gains to be had by those willing to embrace the full potential of 
e-commerce methodology and detach themselves from the siloed thinking of the past.
Partitioned thinking will continue to be part of the airline business as long as there are security and mission-critical 
requirements. However, this contrasts starkly with the needs of ancillary sales that benefit from engaging all 
possible resources in a holistic way. There is a case to be addressed for these ancillaries to become an entity in 
their own right. Rather than treating them as an “also-ran”, airlines may benefit from evolving ancillaries as an 
enterprise separate to and potentially equally important enterprise as the ticket-vending process.
IdeaWorksCompany and CarTrawler estimate that airlines reaped $67.4 billion of income from ancillaries in 2016, 
which equates to 9.1% of global airline revenue. This is not to be dismissed, particularly when you take account of 
the almost 200% growth this represents since 2010. Using IATA’s estimate of almost 3.8 billion passengers in 2016, 
the total ancillary spend corresponds to $17.86 per passenger.
It is not impossible that one day the income from ancillaries will account for a much greater slice of the revenue pie. 
Some companies are clearly thinking this way, Ryanair for one. Chief executive Michael O’Leary’s ambition, widely 
reported in the press in November 2016, is to offer seats at zero fares, paid for by ancillary income.
A global study by travel technology provider Sabre in October 2016, based on a pre-defined basket of extras such 
as seats, bags and food, revealed that passengers would actually be willing to spend up to $99 to personalise their 
experience.
ANALYSIS: Ancillary revenue gains hinge on ending siloed approach; Ancillary products and services are 
already an established part of the seat-vending mix for m....
Unlocking this rich seam demands a deeper understanding of your customers, a robust personalisation strategy, 
and an omni-channel approach that connects with passengers across all the retail touch points, which is no doubt 
easier to say than to implement.
Sabre’s vice-president EMEA, Dino Gelmetti, says personalisation and intelligent, data-driven systems will be key to 
understanding the traits and habits of each individual customer. “Currently airlines use just 12% of the data they 
store on their passengers. By harnessing the full extent of the data they store, they’ll be able to personalise their 
offerings to a specific individual,” he says.
“A Sabre study determined that the extra income generated for airlines by using technology to create a 
personalised, consistent and omni-stage passenger experience would be more than $163 million during the first five 
years for a mid-size carrier with an average percentage of international traffic; that’s a 90% yield.”
Aileen O’Mahony, chief commercial officer at the B2B travel technology platform CarTrawler, points out: “Amazon 
has proven to great effect the positive impact that data science has on its business, with an estimated one-third of 
total sales now coming via their recommendation algorithm.”
The other side to this coin is that consumers’ expectations about the ancillary sales experience have been shaped 
by the digital economy trendsetters. We expect immediate search results, rich user experiences and a super-fast 
check-out process. By contrast, airline purchase processes serving up ancillary offers as obstacles before check-
out are sub-optimal and annoying.
Seth Cassel, president of EveryMundo, which helps airlines drive their direct channel growth, notes: “If there is an 
intention of growing market share you need to really be best in class; and the thing is, online travel agents [OTAs] 
and meta-search engines, the global ones, do provide far smoother experiences and far less obtrusive ancillary 
revenue sales.”
Cassel says: “They also have far more confidence in their ability to up-sell and cross-sell and drive ancillary sales 
post-purchase, because they have those communications tools in place.” This brings us back neatly to the 
requirement for access to data. “It requires the ability to track this information, to manage that data and act upon it 
with relative ease, or even better, with some level of automation,” he says.
Amazon is as good an example as any of a successful business case, but, as Cassel points out, “translating 
[Amazon’s] capabilities to an airline and then even taking that a step further and translating their capabilities into an 
executable, realisable strategy for an airline is not trivial”.
One airline not daunted by the challenge is Ryanair. The third year of the European low-cost carrier’s “Always 
Getting Better” programme is all about digital acceleration and innovation. Initiatives include the ability to book 
travel extras such as seat upgrades, parking and transfers and use “one flick” payments in the mobile app. The 
airline is also improving its purchase process with fare bundles and simplified baggage options, which have been 
reduced from 108 to six.
Ryanair is beefing up opportunities for personalised merchandising – and thereby increasing ancillary revenue – by 
encouraging customers to build profiles within their “My Ryanair” accounts. Robin Kiely, head of communications at 
Ryanair, says: “Over 17 million Ryanair customers have already joined My Ryanair, with growth expected to 25 
million by the end of 2017. Membership across Europe has doubled over the past 12 months.”
This digital evolution has seen the low-cost carrier partner with other travel providers to offer car hire, 
accommodation and most recently, in December 2016, a package holiday service, Ryanair Holidays. “Following the 
launch of Ryanair Car Hire and Ryanair Rooms, even more customers are coming to Ryanair for services and 
products other than flights, and this is another significant step on our journey to becoming the Amazon of air travel,” 
Kiely says.
ANALYSIS: Ancillary revenue gains hinge on ending siloed approach; Ancillary products and services are 
already an established part of the seat-vending mix for m....
“The biggest challenge is changing customers’ ingrained behaviour of going straight to hotel or car-hire websites 
without even thinking about Ryanair,” he adds. “Our technology is getting better every day and we’ve got better 
products and promotions than ever before, so we are making excellent progress.”
That progress is revealed in the first-half report issued in January, in which Ryanair increased its medium-term 
guidance for ancillary sales from 20% to 30% of revenues over the next four years to March 2020, “as a direct result 
of this increased customer demand for travel-related services”.
Ryanair’s ongoing transformation is a good pointer to the mindset required by any airline seeking to move ancillary 
retailing into the revenue mainstream. “Potentially the airlines that have the most opportunity in the future are the 
ones that shift their thinking, and actions, towards themselves being in the travel business, not just in the air 
transportation business,” says Duncan Jackson, president of Flightpath 3D. “The ones that recognise that they are 
truly in the travel business and focus on the passenger’s end-to-end journey, I think those airlines have the greatest 
upside in this kind of new connected world.”
That connected world, where consumers are inseparable from their mobile devices, already provides opportunities 
for the travel-company-minded airline to extend its selling window and reinforce its brand. Robert Booth, head of 
product marketing for airline merchandising solutions at Amadeus, highlights the partnership between Qantas and 
insurer Nib, which resulted in Qantas Assure, a combination of health and travel insurance offers that rewards 
customers with Qantas loyalty points, plus a wellness mobile app that also rewards users with loyalty points.
Emerging technologies have brought us to the impending reality of digital engagement with customers throughout 
their flight, providing information and services about their destination and onward journey. Consumers are also 
becoming much more comfortable leaving some decisions to the last minute. “I think the mindset of the passenger 
for certain services is going to be very casual and transactional,” says Flightpath 3D’s Jackson. “I think people are 
becoming way more casual about car hire now with the rise of on-demand cars like Uber... I see a lot of younger 
millennials expecting to [find] last-minute hotel deals and last-minute accommodation.”
His company is working with more than 20 airlines to provide “geotainment” information services – and ancillary 
revenue opportunities – via a 3D moving map portal within the airline in-flight entertainment system. The portal, 
which can work in both online and offline environments, allows passengers to explore attractions near their 
destination and plan the next stages of their journey.
“If we provide location-based content and data we can solve core passenger challenges like, ‘I know when we land, 
but when will I get to my hotel? What’s the fastest or cheapest way to get to my office? What should we see in the 
city if we have time? Where should we eat tonight?’” says Jackson.
To build a robust ancillary business, any offers and customer engagement must be facilitated wherever and 
whenever suits the passenger, including allowing them to seamlessly transition their interactions with you across 
any device or channel. “Travellers are looking for transparency, consistency and choice, so it’s important for airlines 
to portray a consistent offer to their travellers across all channels,” says Amadeus’s Booth. “We’re seeing an 
increase in the use of omni-channel marketing.”
Amadeus’s Anytime Merchandising solution was launched with its first customer, Avianca, last year. It provides the 
South American mainline carrier with advanced segmentation capabilities for many types of ancillary services, plus 
the ability to facilitate more relevant offers to passengers throughout the trip cycle. Avianca’s executive vice-
president and chief revenue officer, Estuardo Ortiz, notes that merchandising is a huge part of the equation when it 
comes to delivering a quality experience to travellers. “We need to take our digital capabilities to new levels, across 
all channels and in all markets, and in so doing engage with our customers during every stage of their journey 
based on context, relevance and their unique profile.”
An omni-channel approach will also generate greater opportunities to create value, says Ornagh Hoban, chief 
marketing officer at digital commerce platform Datalex. “The airline retail model tends towards a commercial 
limitation based on channel of acquisition. As the airline develops [a] unified offer, order and service management 
ANALYSIS: Ancillary revenue gains hinge on ending siloed approach; Ancillary products and services are 
already an established part of the seat-vending mix for m....
[process], we foresee that the commercial proposition will pivot to focus on ‘customer’ value creation rather than 
‘channel’ segmentation,” she says.
For Hoban, a unified retail platform capability, common across all channels, will open up a digital marketplace to 
airlines, and she forecasts that predictive technologies will enable true dynamic pricing and revenue optimisation for 
all products and services.
“Cloud and data technologies will move the airline from managing online and offline data systems separately and 
switch to single-view data management across channels, gaining sales, inventory and customer visibility for better 
retail strategies,” she says.
This approach to ancillary revenue will demand a much closer alignment between business departments in the 
airline, which could pose a problem. Booth says: “One challenge we’ve noticed is that teams in marketing, IT and 
operations are sometimes siloed, and this prevents airlines from defining a strategy that cuts across the business, 
and this can impact the way airlines take advantage of the technology we offer.”
The winners in the new ancillary services reality will be those airlines that create brand confidence by inspiring a 
belief in their business integrity. On this basis of trust, customers will be happy to spend with them. A key element in 
designing ancillary processes will be to take account of forthcoming legislation, such as the proposed Europe Union 
Data Protection draft, which makes very specific requirements on how customer data can be collected and stored. 
Furthermore, once real-time in-flight connectivity is commonplace, airlines will have to provide compelling reasons 
for their passengers to shop with them rather than going to the e-commerce giants.
Any smart airline retail strategy needs to take account of the lifetime value of the customer, and ancillaries are no 
different. For EveryMundo’s Cassel, the start to a successful ancillary strategy is customer acquisition. “No amount 
of coming up with that new additional thing you can sell beyond seats and bags and lounge access and boarding 
early et cetera will replace the value of direct customer acquisition, which ultimately means customer lifetime value,” 
he says.
If the goal of airlines is to drive ancillaries, there is a need to focus on “having a deeper relationship with every 
passenger and not simply renting passengers from OTAs”, says Cassel. While some airlines may focus primarily on 
their most valuable customers, the issue is not clear-cut. “There’s a lot of channels out there and a lot of tools that 
people use to make their purchase and do their research. If you are not actively competing for that relationship, 
then you are facilitating a commoditised world... It becomes entirely about price,” he says.
It is also likely that as ancillary strategies evolve, airlines will mature their thinking about customer lifetime value. 
“Understanding the customer’s lifetime value and other customer metrics enables airlines to make tactical offers at 
the right time to secure long-term revenue growth and sustainability,” says Datalex’s Hoban. “We believe airlines 
will transform their approach from a focus on a channel value/cost to segment based on consumer type. The airline 
will be able to develop new metrics such as acquisition cost, retention cost, expected margin and lifetime value 
based on customer type.”
With the its new Bombardier CSeries aircraft now in service, Air Baltic is physically embodying a slick tech-company 
experience and incorporating the aircraft into its ancillary revenue drive by promoting and up-selling flights as well 
as the wider middle seats.
Innovating a travel approach to ancillary sales is familiar territory for the European LCC, which has been offering a 
selection of services for the journey – even flowers to give as a gift – for some time. More recently, says vice-
president of corporation communications Janis Vanags, Air Baltic has added a practical edge to the mix, as it was 
one of the first to introduce an enhanced, responsive website. “You no longer need an app from us to book a flight, 
you just need a mobile phone,” Vanags says. It is also engaging across all channels, including social media, where 
it has introduced chat-bot technology to have conversations (supervised by team members) with customers, leading 
to additional sales.
ANALYSIS: Ancillary revenue gains hinge on ending siloed approach; Ancillary products and services are 
already an established part of the seat-vending mix for m....
After being one of the first airlines to offer added services, Air Baltic has streamlined its shopping experience. “It’s 
true we were throwing a lot of products at customers 10 or so years ago,” Vanags says. “We have made checkout 
much simpler these days. Out approach is to limit the number of steps you have to take to buy that travel service 
and offer a quick checkout.”
Later, segmentation and customer data is used for post-sale to make targeted offers to customers. “This is the 
beauty of digitalisation. There is no need to force checking-in a bag at the point of purchase,” Vanags says.
Rather like a tech start-up, Air Baltic is also not afraid to take an experimental approach to products and services. 
Vanags says: “Another thing we are doing now is playing with dynamic pricing for ancillary products. Instead of 
charging a flat fee for your check-in bag, we have a bit of dynamic element – we say the flight you booked is short, 
an early bag will cost you less than for a long flight.”
He adds: “Air Baltic’s continued effort to simplify customer experience has boosted ancillary sales in 2016 up by 
20% year-on-year for selected products, such as advance seat reservation, thus helping to beat its own ambitious 
ancillary revenue plans.”
Vanags reports that smarter digital services have strengthened Air Baltic’s internet booking engine and improved its 
revenue share compared with other distribution channels against a backdrop of growing operations and a 10% 
increase in passengers numbers compared with a year earlier.
Load-Date: March 24, 2017
End of Document
INTERVIEW: Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary What is the greatest threat facing Ryanair ? For chief 
executive Michael O'Leary, it's not the risk of creepi....
INTERVIEW: Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary; What is the greatest 
threat facing Ryanair? For chief executive Michael O'Leary, it's not the risk 
of creeping protectionism across Europe post-Brexit, or overcapacity in the 
short-haul market, or the challenge posed by disintermediators. Rather, it 
lies closer to home, he suggests – in characteristically robust language.
Flight International
February 16, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 2206 words
Body
What is the greatest threat facing Ryanair? For chief executive Michael O'Leary, it's not the risk of creeping 
protectionism across Europe post-Brexit, or overcapacity in the short-haul market, or the challenge posed by 
disintermediators. Rather, it lies closer to home, he suggests – in characteristically robust language.
"The biggest danger is we will f*** it up," he told FlightGlobal in an interview in Brussels on 8 February. "We will do 
something stupid: mergers and acquisitions, start taking honorary doctorates, knighthoods, s*** like that. We will 
start being f****** members of the community.
"If we don't keep challenging ourselves, and we don't keep challenging them [rival airlines], and we don't commit to 
keeping driving down prices, then we will become fat, numb and stupid like the rest of the industry."
By most indicators, O'Leary appears to have little to fear. The Dublin-headquartered airline continues to cement its 
dominance across the continent, becoming the largest carrier in Europe - even than rivals at a group level - for the 
first time in 2016 in terms of passenger numbers. It carried 117 million passengers, on an earned seat basis, in the 
2016 calendar year.
Despite its latest quarterly results revealing a dip in profits, O'Leary says Ryanair is "on track" to make a 1.3 billion 
($1.37 billion) profit for the full financial year and will double in size over the next eight years to carry 220 million 
people by 2024.
The business model has, however, changed dramatically over recent years.
INTERVIEW: Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary What is the greatest threat facing Ryanair ? For chief 
executive Michael O'Leary, it's not the risk of creepi....
Historically, Ryanair operated to Europe's secondary airports, and revelled in being the outsider reviled by 
competitor and customer alike. Now, with Frankfurt Main set to join its network next month, Ryanair has a presence 
at just about every primary airport on the continent, barring London Heathrow.
The "Always Getting Better" campaign, via which the carrier has sought to become more customer-friendly, has 
been a "revelatory process for both for me and for Ryanair", O'Leary acknowledges, and has led to a rethink of the 
entire passenger-processing procedure and onboard operation. O'Leary summarises the new approach as one of 
being "nice to passengers".
In Dublin, an IT centre called "Ryanair Labs" has been opened, while in Wroclaw the airline now has a "Travel 
Labs" site. These have given Ryanair the infrastructure to revamp its website and a mobile app.
As its seeks to boost ancillary revenues and offer more travel-related products through its website, O'Leary predicts 
that in years to come Ryanair will be "a very large airline, with a brilliant website [and] mobile app attached". At that 
point, he adds, "the website and app will be producing as much revenue for us as the airline – it could be that big".
FEEDING RIVALS
The most recent example of the changing face of Ryanair has been the talks it has held with airlines such as Aer 
Lingus and Norwegian toward agreements under which the Irish carrier would feed its rivals' long-haul routes.
O'Leary says a deal with one or other of these two carriers will be in place by the summer. Meanwhile, talks have 
also been conducted with Alitalia about a similar arrangement, O'Leary reveals, adding he is waiting for a definite 
decision by the Italian flag carrier.
"Alitalia is an obvious case: Alitalia is in turmoil financially, I mean they are just blowing every gasket they have. The 
only way forward for Alitalia is to do more long-haul flying and do less short-haul flying," argues O'Leary.
He sees the shift toward low-cost carriers working with legacy carriers as "inevitable" rather than any "revolutionary 
change" to the European aviation landscape.
Ryanair, he says, will seek to avoid the "complexity" of formal interline or prorate arrangements. Instead, the crux of 
the proposition is that Ryanair will simply offer rivals cheaper short-haul seats than they themselves can provide. 
"We offer them far more routes, a lower feed cost – 50 as against 100 – and we would help them to lower the cost 
of their feed,” he says.
He cautions that such co-operation would be limited. For example, Ryanair could potentially feed Lufthansa's "20 
least-profitable routes" without taking over the entire short-haul network.
"I think it is [an] inevitable development, but they will never give up the top 20 trunk short-haul routes: Madrid-
Frankfurt, Frankfurt-Rome, Frankfurt-London... But Porto-Frankfurt could well be done by a low-cost carrier – us, 
EasyJet or something like that – because we can do it cheaper for them," says O'Leary.
So how will these agreements work in practice? O'Leary says Ryanair will only take the revenue for the short-haul 
leg of the journey, but it's the other partner that carries the can because they "keep all the long-haul revenue". 
Ryanair will deliver the passenger's baggage "at the designated point" at a hub airport, but that is where the airline's 
responsibility ends, he indicates.
"There will be issues when the customer connections fail," O'Leary admits. "I don't mind putting them on the next 
Ryanair flight, but if there's a difficulty there: you have all the long-haul revenue, he's your passenger, you look after 
him."
LONG HAUL
INTERVIEW: Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary What is the greatest threat facing Ryanair ? For chief 
executive Michael O'Leary, it's not the risk of creepi....
Despite his admission that Ryanair is working with Boeing on a 757 successor - the so-called middle of the market 
(MOM) aircraft - O'Leary denies that he has become what he would term an aerosexual.
"No, I couldn't care less," he says of the "technical side" of aviation. "All I want to know is the cost per seat."
O'Leary says Ryanair is working with Boeing "on a whole range of possible aircraft types", including the "MOM". 
While he does not see himself as the driving force behind this co-operation, he believes that "ultimately" the US 
manufacturer needs an aircraft "that is pitched at around 300 seats, with long range".
For O'Leary, "the tragedy was they ever stopped making the 757 – it became the kind of aircraft of choice".
On the well-worn subject of whether and when Ryanair might start long-haul operations itself, O'Leary reiterates a 
familiar caveat as he notes the lack of production slots for suitable aircraft.
"If there is availability of a 787 in reasonable numbers at a reasonable price, we will take the 787. If there is a 
replacement aircraft for the 757 that can reach the West Coast [of the USA], we will take that."
He adds: "What we need to be able to have is the availability of 40 or 50 units at a low price. And because the 
orderbooks are stuffed to the gills, there's no low price, long-haul aircraft out there."
So could Ryanair simply buy one of its rivals such as Norwegian to secure the aircraft? No, says O'Leary.
"Then I'm overpaying. I'm not looking for a quick way into long-haul. I want a long-haul, low-cost aircraft to order," 
he says. "I'm very happy to wait until the market turns, the Gulf carriers blow themselves up. Something will 
happen."
MAX POTENTIAL
Appropriate widebodies might be not be available, but Ryanair does have orders for a hundred 737 Max 
narrowbodies and options for another 100. Could the Irish carrier replicate what Norwegian is planning to do by 
putting them on transatlantic routes? Again, O'Leary is dismissive.
"No, the idea you can use the Max for long-haul... The Max can only get you from, say, Ireland or the UK to Boston 
and New York – that's not a transatlantic operation," he says.
"If you are going to do transatlantic, you need to have an operation that can fly from Poland to the West Coast [of 
the US] and everywhere in between. Otherwise, you don't have the scale."
But he has nothing but praise for the new narrowbody, which will be delivered to Ryanair from August 2019, and 
which he describes as a "game changer" for the airline's business.
"It has 4% more seats – 197 as against 189 – and it has a 16% lower fuel consumption, guaranteed. Its probably 
going to be more like 20%," he says. "It transforms the business."
This brings O'Leary on to a fundamental point about the Ryanair business model.
"You see some airlines who can never make money. They do ASKs [available seat-kilometres] and CASKs [cost 
per available seat-kilometre]: it's all bollocks. It's your cost per seat [that matters], because the seat is what you 
sell."
Emphasising his point, O'Leary says he will order Airbus aircraft "any time that their cost per seat is 5% below 
Boeing's".
Flight Fleets Analyzer shows that Ryanair's all-737 fleet currently includes 370 in-service -800s, and that it has 
another 92 of those on order.
INTERVIEW: Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary What is the greatest threat facing Ryanair ? For chief 
executive Michael O'Leary, it's not the risk of creepi....
BREXIT
O'Leary emerged as one of the staunchest supporters of the "Remain" campaign in the build-up to the UK's 
referendum on EU membership last year, and has been an outspoken critic of the "Leave" side both before and 
after the vote.
He concedes that Brexit will have an impact on his airline. Not only will Ryanair cut its growth plans for the UK this 
summer, it might also be forced to create a new operating entity and gain a UK air operator's certificate in order to 
continue to operate its domestic routes in the country.
But O'Leary says the impact on Ryanair will be much less than it will be for UK-based airlines such as IAG and 
EasyJet.
He sees no inherent threat of the Brexit vote powering a tide of protectionism across Europe, and believes the UK 
will struggle to show others keen to separate from the EU that it can make separation a success.
"The great challenge for the Brexiteers is going to be what happens when all of a sudden low-cost air travel to and 
from the UK begins to be threatened by the UK leaving open-skies. Then there's going to be a big f****** backlash," 
he says.
"The UK has been talking to itself for the last four months. They haven't been talking to the Europeans. I think they 
are going to get quite a shock when they start talking to the Europeans about just how bad Brexit is going to be. I 
fundamentally believe the UK will change course in two years when they realise they are going to walk off a f****** 
cliff."
OVERCAPACITY
Though he sees European aviation suffering from a bout of "too much capacity", O'Leary says Ryanair will continue 
to expand across multiple markets this year.
In addition to serving Naples and Frankfurt Main for the first time this year, the airline will add multiple new routes 
from Poland, Bulgaria, Germany and Israel.
"We can expand in every market: we are expanding in Wizz's markets, in EasyJet's markets, in IAG's markets," he 
says. "We are profitable in all these markets. I think the challenge is how are these other airlines that are ordering 
aircraft going to compete with Ryanair when we enter their markets, and the reality is they can't."
DISINTERMEDIATORS
O'Leary meanwhile continues to keep "disintermediators" in his sights. "We want to steal the market back from 
TripAdvisor, or Booking.com – all these people who exist on the back of the airlines. If we can take all of those 
services, those disintermediated services, and put them back on an airline website or a mobile app, then they don't 
exist. Those are the business models we want to disintermediate."
What keeps him awake at night? "Safety, management discipline. Safety and execution, risk – those are the two 
things I worry about."
O'Leary is proud that safety levels remain "excellent" at Ryanair, noting the airline's "industry-leading" 30-year 
record. "But we have to keep building on that," he says. "We have to keep investing in new aircraft, in simulators, in 
pilot training, and we continue to invest very heavily in that."
He adds: "We recently announced an order for 14 fixed-base simulators, which will take us up to 20 simulators 
across the network. So we are continuously doing controlling and doing all of our own training."
TIME TO LEAVE?
INTERVIEW: Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary What is the greatest threat facing Ryanair ? For chief 
executive Michael O'Leary, it's not the risk of creepi....
O'Leary has now been at the helm at Ryanair for 23 years, in which time has made an extraordinary impact, turning 
a tiny Irish regional outfit into Europe's largest carrier by passenger numbers and its foremost low-cost.
By his own admission, he now does things that he would have found unthinkable years before, such as attending 
aviation conferences and last year joining with Europe's legacy airlines to form a new lobbying group – Airlines for 
Europe (A4E) – with Air France-KLM, Lufthansa, Norwegian, EasyJet and IAG.
"I have to slap myself very roughly before I go into these A4E meetings [in order] not to get contaminated, and then 
I get fumigated on the way out of the door," he quips. "But we continue to fight the good fight...
"Seriously, there are areas where we do need to work with the other airlines. We are now the biggest airline in 
Europe, and we have much more voice if we – with Lufthansa, Air France, IAG – sing from the same hymn-sheet."
So with all the changes that have been made at the airline, is it time for the 55-year-old to stand down?
"Jesus, no," he says. "We are going to make 1.3 billion this year, we're about to double in size over the next eight 
years. We are doing incredibly exciting things with the website, the mobile app; the whole Ryanair Labs has 
transformed the business. What I've said is: look, when we stop growing rapidly, doing exciting things, then I'll be 
the wrong guy to run the place.
"When it becomes a dull, boring, f****** growing-at-two-to-three-percent-a-year [airline], dealing with f****** unions 
and strikes and all that kind of s***, I'll be gone. But we are not there yet."
Load-Date: February 17, 2017
End of Document
ANALYSIS: Ancillary revenue gains hinge on ending siloed approach Ancillary products and services are 
already an established part of the seat-vending mix for mo....
ANALYSIS: Ancillary revenue gains hinge on ending siloed approach; 
Ancillary products and services are already an established part of the seat-
vending mix for most airlines, but an exciting trend is emerging that points 
to increasing gains to be had by those willing to embrace the full potential of 
e-commerce methodology and detach themselves from the siloed thinking of 
the past.
Flight International
February 16, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 2794 words
Body
Ancillary products and services are already an established part of the seat-vending mix for most airlines, but an 
exciting trend is emerging that points to increasing gains to be had by those willing to embrace the full potential of 
e-commerce methodology and detach themselves from the siloed thinking of the past.
Partitioned thinking will continue to be part of the airline business as long as there are security and mission-critical 
requirements. However, this contrasts starkly with the needs of ancillary sales that benefit from engaging all 
possible resources in a holistic way. There is a case to be addressed for these ancillaries to become an entity in 
their own right. Rather than treating them as an “also-ran”, airlines may benefit from evolving ancillaries as an 
enterprise separate to and potentially equally important enterprise as the ticket-vending process.
IdeaWorksCompany and CarTrawler estimate that airlines reaped $67.4 billion of income from ancillaries in 2016, 
which equates to 9.1% of global airline revenue. This is not to be dismissed, particularly when you take account of 
the almost 200% growth this represents since 2010. Using IATA’s estimate of almost 3.8 billion passengers in 2016, 
the total ancillary spend corresponds to $17.86 per passenger.
It is not impossible that one day the income from ancillaries will account for a much greater slice of the revenue pie. 
Some companies are clearly thinking this way, Ryanair for one. Chief executive Michael O’Leary’s ambition, widely 
reported in the press in November 2016, is to offer seats at zero fares, paid for by ancillary income.
A global study by travel technology provider Sabre in October 2016, based on a pre-defined basket of extras such 
as seats, bags and food, revealed that passengers would actually be willing to spend up to $99 to personalise their 
experience.
ANALYSIS: Ancillary revenue gains hinge on ending siloed approach Ancillary products and services are 
already an established part of the seat-vending mix for mo....
Unlocking this rich seam demands a deeper understanding of your customers, a robust personalisation strategy, 
and an omni-channel approach that connects with passengers across all the retail touch points, which is no doubt 
easier to say than to implement.
Sabre’s vice-president EMEA, Dino Gelmetti, says personalisation and intelligent, data-driven systems will be key to 
understanding the traits and habits of each individual customer. “Currently airlines use just 12% of the data they 
store on their passengers. By harnessing the full extent of the data they store, they’ll be able to personalise their 
offerings to a specific individual,” he says.
“A Sabre study determined that the extra income generated for airlines by using technology to create a 
personalised, consistent and omni-stage passenger experience would be more than $163 million during the first five 
years for a mid-size carrier with an average percentage of international traffic; that’s a 90% yield.”
Aileen O’Mahony, chief commercial officer at the B2B travel technology platform CarTrawler, points out: “Amazon 
has proven to great effect the positive impact that data science has on its business, with an estimated one-third of 
total sales now coming via their recommendation algorithm.”
The other side to this coin is that consumers’ expectations about the ancillary sales experience have been shaped 
by the digital economy trendsetters. We expect immediate search results, rich user experiences and a super-fast 
check-out process. By contrast, airline purchase processes serving up ancillary offers as obstacles before check-
out are sub-optimal and annoying.
Seth Cassel, president of EveryMundo, which helps airlines drive their direct channel growth, notes: “If there is an 
intention of growing market share you need to really be best in class; and the thing is, online travel agents [OTAs] 
and meta-search engines, the global ones, do provide far smoother experiences and far less obtrusive ancillary 
revenue sales.”
Cassel says: “They also have far more confidence in their ability to up-sell and cross-sell and drive ancillary sales 
post-purchase, because they have those communications tools in place.” This brings us back neatly to the 
requirement for access to data. “It requires the ability to track this information, to manage that data and act upon it 
with relative ease, or even better, with some level of automation,” he says.
Amazon is as good an example as any of a successful business case, but, as Cassel points out, “translating 
[Amazon’s] capabilities to an airline and then even taking that a step further and translating their capabilities into an 
executable, realisable strategy for an airline is not trivial”.
One airline not daunted by the challenge is Ryanair. The third year of the European low-cost carrier’s “Always 
Getting Better” programme is all about digital acceleration and innovation. Initiatives include the ability to book 
travel extras such as seat upgrades, parking and transfers and use “one flick” payments in the mobile app. The 
airline is also improving its purchase process with fare bundles and simplified baggage options, which have been 
reduced from 108 to six.
Ryanair is beefing up opportunities for personalised merchandising – and thereby increasing ancillary revenue – by 
encouraging customers to build profiles within their “My Ryanair” accounts. Robin Kiely, head of communications at 
Ryanair, says: “Over 17 million Ryanair customers have already joined My Ryanair, with growth expected to 25 
million by the end of 2017. Membership across Europe has doubled over the past 12 months.”
This digital evolution has seen the low-cost carrier partner with other travel providers to offer car hire, 
accommodation and most recently, in December 2016, a package holiday service, Ryanair Holidays. “Following the 
launch of Ryanair Car Hire and Ryanair Rooms, even more customers are coming to Ryanair for services and 
products other than flights, and this is another significant step on our journey to becoming the Amazon of air travel,” 
Kiely says.
ANALYSIS: Ancillary revenue gains hinge on ending siloed approach Ancillary products and services are 
already an established part of the seat-vending mix for mo....
“The biggest challenge is changing customers’ ingrained behaviour of going straight to hotel or car-hire websites 
without even thinking about Ryanair,” he adds. “Our technology is getting better every day and we’ve got better 
products and promotions than ever before, so we are making excellent progress.”
That progress is revealed in the first-half report issued in January, in which Ryanair increased its medium-term 
guidance for ancillary sales from 20% to 30% of revenues over the next four years to March 2020, “as a direct result 
of this increased customer demand for travel-related services”.
Ryanair’s ongoing transformation is a good pointer to the mindset required by any airline seeking to move ancillary 
retailing into the revenue mainstream. “Potentially the airlines that have the most opportunity in the future are the 
ones that shift their thinking, and actions, towards themselves being in the travel business, not just in the air 
transportation business,” says Duncan Jackson, president of Flightpath 3D. “The ones that recognise that they are 
truly in the travel business and focus on the passenger’s end-to-end journey, I think those airlines have the greatest 
upside in this kind of new connected world.”
That connected world, where consumers are inseparable from their mobile devices, already provides opportunities 
for the travel-company-minded airline to extend its selling window and reinforce its brand. Robert Booth, head of 
product marketing for airline merchandising solutions at Amadeus, highlights the partnership between Qantas and 
insurer Nib, which resulted in Qantas Assure, a combination of health and travel insurance offers that rewards 
customers with Qantas loyalty points, plus a wellness mobile app that also rewards users with loyalty points.
Emerging technologies have brought us to the impending reality of digital engagement with customers throughout 
their flight, providing information and services about their destination and onward journey. Consumers are also 
becoming much more comfortable leaving some decisions to the last minute. “I think the mindset of the passenger 
for certain services is going to be very casual and transactional,” says Flightpath 3D’s Jackson. “I think people are 
becoming way more casual about car hire now with the rise of on-demand cars like Uber... I see a lot of younger 
millennials expecting to [find] last-minute hotel deals and last-minute accommodation.”
His company is working with more than 20 airlines to provide “geotainment” information services – and ancillary 
revenue opportunities – via a 3D moving map portal within the airline in-flight entertainment system. The portal, 
which can work in both online and offline environments, allows passengers to explore attractions near their 
destination and plan the next stages of their journey.
“If we provide location-based content and data we can solve core passenger challenges like, ‘I know when we land, 
but when will I get to my hotel? What’s the fastest or cheapest way to get to my office? What should we see in the 
city if we have time? Where should we eat tonight?’” says Jackson.
To build a robust ancillary business, any offers and customer engagement must be facilitated wherever and 
whenever suits the passenger, including allowing them to seamlessly transition their interactions with you across 
any device or channel. “Travellers are looking for transparency, consistency and choice, so it’s important for airlines 
to portray a consistent offer to their travellers across all channels,” says Amadeus’s Booth. “We’re seeing an 
increase in the use of omni-channel marketing.”
Amadeus’s Anytime Merchandising solution was launched with its first customer, Avianca, last year. It provides the 
South American mainline carrier with advanced segmentation capabilities for many types of ancillary services, plus 
the ability to facilitate more relevant offers to passengers throughout the trip cycle. Avianca’s executive vice-
president and chief revenue officer, Estuardo Ortiz, notes that merchandising is a huge part of the equation when it 
comes to delivering a quality experience to travellers. “We need to take our digital capabilities to new levels, across 
all channels and in all markets, and in so doing engage with our customers during every stage of their journey 
based on context, relevance and their unique profile.”
An omni-channel approach will also generate greater opportunities to create value, says Ornagh Hoban, chief 
marketing officer at digital commerce platform Datalex. “The airline retail model tends towards a commercial 
limitation based on channel of acquisition. As the airline develops [a] unified offer, order and service management 
ANALYSIS: Ancillary revenue gains hinge on ending siloed approach Ancillary products and services are 
already an established part of the seat-vending mix for mo....
[process], we foresee that the commercial proposition will pivot to focus on ‘customer’ value creation rather than 
‘channel’ segmentation,” she says.
For Hoban, a unified retail platform capability, common across all channels, will open up a digital marketplace to 
airlines, and she forecasts that predictive technologies will enable true dynamic pricing and revenue optimisation for 
all products and services.
“Cloud and data technologies will move the airline from managing online and offline data systems separately and 
switch to single-view data management across channels, gaining sales, inventory and customer visibility for better 
retail strategies,” she says.
This approach to ancillary revenue will demand a much closer alignment between business departments in the 
airline, which could pose a problem. Booth says: “One challenge we’ve noticed is that teams in marketing, IT and 
operations are sometimes siloed, and this prevents airlines from defining a strategy that cuts across the business, 
and this can impact the way airlines take advantage of the technology we offer.”
The winners in the new ancillary services reality will be those airlines that create brand confidence by inspiring a 
belief in their business integrity. On this basis of trust, customers will be happy to spend with them. A key element in 
designing ancillary processes will be to take account of forthcoming legislation, such as the proposed Europe Union 
Data Protection draft, which makes very specific requirements on how customer data can be collected and stored. 
Furthermore, once real-time in-flight connectivity is commonplace, airlines will have to provide compelling reasons 
for their passengers to shop with them rather than going to the e-commerce giants.
Any smart airline retail strategy needs to take account of the lifetime value of the customer, and ancillaries are no 
different. For EveryMundo’s Cassel, the start to a successful ancillary strategy is customer acquisition. “No amount 
of coming up with that new additional thing you can sell beyond seats and bags and lounge access and boarding 
early et cetera will replace the value of direct customer acquisition, which ultimately means customer lifetime value,” 
he says.
If the goal of airlines is to drive ancillaries, there is a need to focus on “having a deeper relationship with every 
passenger and not simply renting passengers from OTAs”, says Cassel. While some airlines may focus primarily on 
their most valuable customers, the issue is not clear-cut. “There’s a lot of channels out there and a lot of tools that 
people use to make their purchase and do their research. If you are not actively competing for that relationship, 
then you are facilitating a commoditised world... It becomes entirely about price,” he says.
It is also likely that as ancillary strategies evolve, airlines will mature their thinking about customer lifetime value. 
“Understanding the customer’s lifetime value and other customer metrics enables airlines to make tactical offers at 
the right time to secure long-term revenue growth and sustainability,” says Datalex’s Hoban. “We believe airlines 
will transform their approach from a focus on a channel value/cost to segment based on consumer type. The airline 
will be able to develop new metrics such as acquisition cost, retention cost, expected margin and lifetime value 
based on customer type.”
With the its new Bombardier CSeries aircraft now in service, Air Baltic is physically embodying a slick tech-company 
experience and incorporating the aircraft into its ancillary revenue drive by promoting and up-selling flights as well 
as the wider middle seats.
Innovating a travel approach to ancillary sales is familiar territory for the European LCC, which has been offering a 
selection of services for the journey – even flowers to give as a gift – for some time. More recently, says vice-
president of corporation communications Janis Vanags, Air Baltic has added a practical edge to the mix, as it was 
one of the first to introduce an enhanced, responsive website. “You no longer need an app from us to book a flight, 
you just need a mobile phone,” Vanags says. It is also engaging across all channels, including social media, where 
it has introduced chat-bot technology to have conversations (supervised by team members) with customers, leading 
to additional sales.
ANALYSIS: Ancillary revenue gains hinge on ending siloed approach Ancillary products and services are 
already an established part of the seat-vending mix for mo....
After being one of the first airlines to offer added services, Air Baltic has streamlined its shopping experience. “It’s 
true we were throwing a lot of products at customers 10 or so years ago,” Vanags says. “We have made checkout 
much simpler these days. Out approach is to limit the number of steps you have to take to buy that travel service 
and offer a quick checkout.”
Later, segmentation and customer data is used for post-sale to make targeted offers to customers. “This is the 
beauty of digitalisation. There is no need to force checking-in a bag at the point of purchase,” Vanags says.
Rather like a tech start-up, Air Baltic is also not afraid to take an experimental approach to products and services. 
Vanags says: “Another thing we are doing now is playing with dynamic pricing for ancillary products. Instead of 
charging a flat fee for your check-in bag, we have a bit of dynamic element – we say the flight you booked is short, 
an early bag will cost you less than for a long flight.”
He adds: “Air Baltic’s continued effort to simplify customer experience has boosted ancillary sales in 2016 up by 
20% year-on-year for selected products, such as advance seat reservation, thus helping to beat its own ambitious 
ancillary revenue plans.”
Vanags reports that smarter digital services have strengthened Air Baltic’s internet booking engine and improved its 
revenue share compared with other distribution channels against a backdrop of growing operations and a 10% 
increase in passengers numbers compared with a year earlier.
FlightGlobal is organising the Technology and Innovation in Airline Distribution conference, which takes place in 
Bangkok on 17-18 May 2017, and where airlines will be sharing insight on how they have adapted to digital 
distribution. Get involved in the conversation, join us here.
Load-Date: April 3, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches Scottish winter schedule
Ryanair launches Scottish winter schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
February 16, 2017 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 334 words
Highlight: Ryanair has launched its Scottish winter schedule, with 13 new Edinburgh routes to Baden, Budapest, 
Carcassonne, Eindhoven, Hamburg, Katowice, Nantes, Prague, Szczecin, Toulouse, Venice, Valencia and 
Wroclaw, and 2 new Glasgow routes to Krakow and Madrid.
Body
Ryanair will continue to connect Scotland with major business centres on high frequency, low fare services 
including Berlin (daily), Dublin (6 daily), London (7 daily) and Rome (daily), with better timings and lower fares, 
making Ryanair the ideal choice for Scottish business and leisure customers, as these new routes will go on sale in 
February 2017.Ryanair&#39;s Scotland summer 2017 schedule is attracting record bookings, with more 
frequencies to sun destinations for summer family holidays, lower fares as Ryanair passes on lower fuel costs, and 
an even better customer experience, as it continues to roll out its "Always Getting Better" improvements.In 
Edinburgh, Ryanair&#39;s Michael O&#39;Leary said: "We are pleased to launch our biggest-ever Scotland winter 
schedule, with 15 new routes and 20% growth which will deliver over 5 m customers p.a. and support 3,750jobs at 
Ryanair&#39;s four Scottish Airports. We are also pleased to report record bookings on our Scottish summer 2017 
schedule, and Scottish customers can look forward to even lower fares, so there&#39;s never been a better time to 
book a low fare flight on Ryanair. We urge all customers who wish to book their holidays to do so now on the 
Ryanair.com website or mobile app, where they can avail of the lowest fare air travel to and from Scotland.We call 
on the Scottish Government to follow the Irish example and scrap APD entirely to allow Scottish traffic, tourism and 
jobs to grow and ensure Scottish airports can compete and attract more business. 
The scrapping of APD would enable Ryanair to base more aircraft in Scotland, add even more new routes and and 
create thousands of additional jobs.To celebrate the launch of our Scotland winter 2017 schedule we are releasing 
seats for sale across our European network from just GBP9.99, which are available for booking until midnight 
Monday (20 Feb). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto 
www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: February 27, 2017
Ryanair launches Scottish winter schedule
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stake Cut by Baldwin Investment Management LLC
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stake Cut by Baldwin Investment 
Management LLC
Watchlist News
February 15, 2017 Wednesday 12:46 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 794 words
Byline: Lindsey Winhoffer
Body
Feb 15, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Baldwin Investment 
Management LLC reduced its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 0.4% during the fourth 
quarter, Holdings Channel[1] reports. The fund owned 9,051 shares of the company's stock after selling 37 shares 
during the period. Baldwin Investment Management LLC's holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were worth $754,000 
as of its most recent filing with the SEC. 
 A number of other hedge funds have also added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. Smithfield Trust Co. raised 
its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. now owns 1,616 
shares of the company's stock valued at $113,000 after buying an additional 15 shares in the last quarter. Quantbot 
Technologies LP raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 236.6% in the third quarter. Quantbot 
Technologies LP now owns 1,656 shares of the company's stock valued at $124,000 after buying an additional 
1,164 shares in the last quarter. Bremer Trust National Association purchased a new position in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC during the third quarter valued at approximately $202,000. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. 
purchased a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter valued at approximately 
$203,000. Finally, Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft FI purchased a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings 
PLC during the fourth quarter valued at approximately $212,000. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 
42.80% of the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded down 0.61% during midday 
trading on Tuesday, hitting $82.71. The company had a trading volume of 131,208 shares. The firm has a 50-day 
moving average price of $83.51 and a 200-day moving average price of $78.07. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 12 
month low of $66.09 and a 12 month high of $89.67. The company has a market cap of $20.41 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of 15.12 and a beta of 0.72.  'Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stake Cut by Baldwin Investment 
Management LLC' was originally published by Watch List News and is the property of of Watch List News. If you 
are viewing this piece on another publication, it was illegally copied and reposted in violation of United States and 
international copyright and trademark law. The original version of this piece can be viewed at 
http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-stake-cut-by-baldwin-investment-management-
llc/1117278.html.  Several equities analysts have issued reports on the company. Beaufort Securities reiterated a 
'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Friday, October 21st. BNP Paribas reiterated 
a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Thursday, October 20th. Berenberg Bank 
assumed coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Friday, November 11th. They issued a 'buy' 
rating on the stock. Barclays PLC reiterated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stake Cut by Baldwin Investment Management LLC
Tuesday, January 10th. Finally, Canaccord Genuity assumed coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research 
note on Thursday, January 26th. They issued a 'buy' rating on the stock. One analyst has rated the stock with a sell 
rating, five have assigned a hold rating and six have given a buy rating to the company. The company has an 
average rating of 'Hold' and a consensus price target of $95.33. About Ryanair Holdings PLC Ryanair Holdings plc 
(Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, 
scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities 
connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and 
the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? 
Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to 
receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related 
companies 
with 
Analyst 
Ratings 
Network's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 15, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches 2017 Leeds Bradford Airport winter schedule
Ryanair launches 2017 Leeds Bradford Airport winter schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
February 15, 2017 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 447 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has launched Leeds Bradford Airport winter schedule 2017, with a new route to Wroclaw, a 
new winter service to Murcia and 17 routes in total.
Body
Ryanair&#39;s Leeds Bradford Airport winter 2017 schedule will deliver: 1 new route to Wroclaw (2 wkly); 1 new 
winter service to Murcia (2 wkly); 17 routes in total; 55 weekly flights; 1.3 m customers p.a.; and 975"on-site" jobs 
p.a. Ryanair will continue to connect the Leeds city region with major European cities on high frequency, low fare 
services including Dublin (2 daily), as well as a wide range of winter sun routes, on the lowest fares, making 
Ryanair the ideal choice for Yorkshire business and leisure customers.Ryanair&#39;s Leeds Bradford Airport 
summer 2017 schedule is attracting record bookings, with more frequencies to sun destinations for summer family 
holidays, including 5 new routes to Bratislava (2 wkly), Girona (2 wkly), Gran Canaria (2 wkly), Vilnius (2 wkly) and 
Warsaw Modlin (2 wkly) and an even better customer experience, as Ryanair continues to roll out its "Always 
Getting Better" improvements.In Leeds, Ryanair&#39;s Robin Kiely said: "We are pleased to launch our 2017 
Leeds Bradford Airport winter schedule, our biggest ever, which includes 2 new routes to Wroclaw and Murcia and 
17 routes in total, which will deliver 1.3mcustomers p.a. and support 975 jobs at Leeds Bradford Airport. These new 
routes will go on sale in February as we continue to grow our Leeds Bradford Airport traffic, tourism and jobs, 
underlining our commitment to the Yorkshire region."We are also pleased to report record bookings on our Leeds 
Bradford summer 2017 schedule and customers can look forward to even lower fares so there&#39;s never been a 
better time to book a low fare flight on Ryanair. 
We urge all customers who wish to book their holidays to do so now on the Ryanair.com website or mobile app, 
where they can avail of the lowest fare air travel to and from Leeds Bradford."To celebrate the launch of our Leeds 
Bradford winter 2017 schedule we are releasing seats for sale across our European network from just GBP9.99, 
which are available for booking until midnight Thursday (16 Feb). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped 
up quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."Aviation Development Director at 
Leeds Bradford Airport, Tony Hallwood, said: "Leeds Bradford Airport welcomes the continued growth of Ryanair 
capacity and a widening of the airline&#39;s route network for Winter 2017. The introduction of Wroclaw, the largest 
city in Western Poland, is the airport&#39;s fourth Polish route and will be welcomed by both business and leisure 
Ryanair launches 2017 Leeds Bradford Airport winter schedule
travellers. Murcia will provide easy access to the Costa Calida being conveniently close to La Manga, Cartegena 
and to Torrevieja, favoured by overseas property owners."
Load-Date: February 21, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches new route from Manchester to Seville
Ryanair launches new route from Manchester to Seville
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
February 15, 2017 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 177 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has launched a new route from Manchester to Seville, with a twice weekly service 
beginning in October 2017, as part of its Manchester winter 2017 schedule.
Body
Ryanair celebrated its new Manchester - Seville route by releasing seats for sale at prices starting from just 
GBP9.99, for travel in February and March. These low fare seats are available for booking on the Ryanair.com 
website until midnight Thursday, 16 February.Ryanair&#39;s Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair is pleased to announce a 
new route from Manchester to Seville, with a twice weekly service starting in October, as part of our Manchester 
winter 2017 service, which will go on sale soon. UK customers and visitors can look forward to even lower fares 
when they make advance bookings for their summer or winter holidays, so there&#39;s never been a better time to 
book low fare flights to or from Manchester."To celebrate our new Manchester to Seville route, we are releasing 
seats for sale across our European network from just GBP9.99 for travel in February and March,which are available 
for booking until midnight Thursday, 16 February. Since these amazing low fares will be snapped up quickly, 
customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: February 21, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches new route from East Midlands to Seville, Spain
Ryanair launches new route from East Midlands to Seville, Spain
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
February 15, 2017 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 180 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has launched a new route from East Midlands to Seville, Spain, with a twice weekly service 
beginning in October 2017, as part of its East Midlands winter 2017 schedule.
Body
Ryanair celebrated its new East Midlands - Seville route by releasing seats for sale at prices starting from just 
GBP9.99, for travel in February and March. These low fare seats are available for booking on the Ryanair.com 
website until midnight Thursday, 16 February.Ryanair&#39;s Robin Kiely said: "Ryanair is pleased to announce a 
new route from East Midlands to Seville, with a twice weekly service starting in October, as part of our East 
Midlands winter 2017 service, which will go on sale soon. UK customers and visitors can look forward to even lower 
fares when they make advance bookings for their summer or winter holidays, so there&#39;s never been a better 
time to book low fare flights to or from East Midlands."To celebrate our new East Midlands to Seville route, we are 
releasing seats for sale across our European network from just GBP9.99 for travel in February and March,which are 
available for booking until midnight Thursday, 16 February. Since these amazing low fares will be snapped up 
quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: February 21, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Rating Lowered to Hold at Kepler Capital Markets
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Rating Lowered to Hold at Kepler Capital 
Markets
Watchlist News
February 14, 2017 Tuesday 10:31 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 687 words
Byline: Hanz Christensen
Body
Feb 14, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by equities researchers at Kepler Capital Markets from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' 
rating in a note issued to investors on Friday. A number of other analysts also recently weighed in on RYAAY. 
Zacks Investment Research upgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research 
report on Friday, November 11th. 
Barclays PLC reiterated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Tuesday, January 
10th. HSBC Holdings plc upgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research 
report on Wednesday, November 2nd. Canaccord Genuity began coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on 
Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. Finally, Berenberg Bank began coverage on 
Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on Friday, November 11th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. One research 
analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have assigned a hold rating and six have assigned a buy rating to 
the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings PLC currently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and an average target price 
of $95.33.Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) opened at 83.22 on Friday. The stock's 50 day moving 
average is $83.51 and its 200 day moving average is $78.07. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 52-week low of $66.09 
and a 52-week high of $89.67. The company has a market cap of $20.53 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 15.10 
and a beta of 0.72.  This news story was originally reported by Watch List News and is the property of of Watch List 
News. If you are accessing this news story on another site, it was illegally copied and reposted in violation of United 
States and international copyright and trademark laws. The correct version of this news story can be read at 
http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-rating-lowered-to-hold-at-kepler-capital-
markets/1115975.html.  Institutional investors have recently modified their holdings of the company. Smithfield Trust 
Co. boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. now 
owns 1,616 shares of the company's stock worth $113,000 after buying an additional 15 shares during the last 
quarter. Quantbot Technologies LP boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 236.6% in the third 
quarter. Quantbot Technologies LP now owns 1,656 shares of the company's stock worth $124,000 after buying an 
additional 1,164 shares during the last quarter. Flinton Capital Management LLC purchased a new position in 
shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the fourth quarter worth about $161,000. Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft 
FI purchased a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the fourth quarter worth about $212,000. 
Finally, Bremer Trust National Association purchased a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the 
third quarter worth about $202,000. 42.80% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Rating Lowered to Hold at Kepler Capital Markets
Ryanair Holdings PLC Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair 
Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point 
routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various 
ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Receive 
News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary 
of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with Analyst Ratings 
Network's FREE daily email newsletter[2]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:       
     http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 14, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair feels impact of Brexit instability Carrier expects uncertainty over UK's relationship with EU to slow 
growth, and is prepared to shift capacity elsewher....
Ryanair feels impact of Brexit instability; Carrier expects uncertainty over 
UK's relationship with EU to slow growth, and is prepared to shift capacity 
elsewhere
Flight International
February 14, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: THIS WEEK
Length: 556 words
Body
Irish budget carrier Ryanair says it expects its business in the UK to slow as the country heads towards a formal 
withdrawal from the EU, while disclosing a marked fall in its third-quarter profit for 2016.
The carrier says there is still “significant uncertainty” regarding the eventual relationship between the UK and the 
EU, particularly given the signals that the UK is preparing for a complete separation, rather than an agreement 
retaining certain market-access rights.
Such uncertainty will “continue to represent a challenge for our business” over 2017-2018, Ryanair says in a third-
quarter financial statement, adding that it expects the UK’s currency to “remain volatile for some time”.
“We may see a slowdown in economic growth in both the UK and Europe as we move closer to [the UK’s exit],” it 
adds. “While there may be opportunities to expand at certain UK airports we expect to grow at a slower pace than 
previously planned in the UK.”
Ryanair says it will continue to shift capacity to other markets in Europe if opportunities for UK expansion diminish.
“We hope that the UK remains a member of Europe’s ‘open skies’ system,” it says. “Until the final outcome is 
known, however, we will continue to adapt to changing circumstances in the best interest of our customers, people 
and shareholders.”
On 6 February the carrier revealed an 8% fall in its third-quarter after-tax profit for 2016, to 95 million ($101 million).
Ryanair says the decline in the three months to 31 December followed a 17% fall in average fares. Revenues 
increased by only 1%, to just over 1.3 billion.
Ryanair feels impact of Brexit instability Carrier expects uncertainty over UK's relationship with EU to slow 
growth, and is prepared to shift capacity elsewher....
Chief executive Michael O’Leary says the decline in yields has been “exacerbated” by the drop in the value of 
sterling following last June’s Brexit referendum result. However, as fares fell, the airline’s load factor rose to 95% 
over the quarter.
The carrier is also expecting a sharp decline in fourth-quarter yields, partly because the 2017 Easter holiday falls 
outside of the financial year, but is maintaining a full-year forecast of a 1.3-1.35 billion profit.
Meanwhile, Ryanair finance chief Neil Sorahan says he expects Lufthansa’s wet-lease deal with Air Berlin to be 
investigated by the EU on competition grounds, despite its recent approval by German regulators.
Speaking to FlightGlobal, Sorahan says that while the “so-called ACMI transaction” has secured German approval, 
“other parties” would want to look at the agreement in more detail. He describes the arrangement under which Air 
Berlin will lease 38 aircraft to Lufthansa as a “good old-fashioned merger [that] falls under competition rules both in 
the EU and in Germany”.
“I appreciate that they have called it something else, but when you look at it on its own it absolutely is a merger. It 
would be unusual for somebody to go out and wet-lease as many aircraft at one time as is happening in this 
instance,” he says. “We will see hopefully a more detailed eye thrown over the submission when it gets to the EU 
level.”
Lufthansa Group chief executive Carsten Spohr has defended the wet-lease deal, saying the carrier will continue to 
compete with Air Berlin.
Additional reporting by Oliver Clark in London
While yields fell in the third quarter, overall load factor rose to 95%
Geoff Robinson Photography/REX/Shutterstock
“We expect to grow
at a slower pace than
previously planned
in the UK”
Ryanair
Load-Date: February 15, 2017
End of Document
Fmr LLC Sells 790,583 Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Fmr LLC Sells 790,583 Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
February 14, 2017 Tuesday 10:18 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 786 words
Byline: Latisha Jones
Body
Feb 14, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Fmr LLC decreased its stake in 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 5.2% during the fourth quarter, according to its most recent Form 13F 
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The institutional investor owned 14,280,301 shares of 
the company's stock after selling 790,583 shares during the period. Fmr LLC owned about 0.06% of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC worth $1,188,978,000 at the end of the most recent reporting period.  A number of other large 
investors have also recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. 
Thornburg Investment Management Inc. increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.4% in the fourth 
quarter. Thornburg Investment Management Inc. now owns 1,219,465 shares of the company's stock valued at 
$101,533,000 after buying an additional 17,212 shares in the last quarter. Renaissance Group LLC increased its 
position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.1% in the fourth quarter. Renaissance Group LLC now owns 175,647 shares 
of the company's stock valued at $14,624,000 after buying an additional 1,996 shares in the last quarter. State 
Street Corp increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 35.0% in the fourth quarter. State Street Corp now 
owns 324,522 shares of the company's stock valued at $27,016,000 after buying an additional 84,140 shares in the 
last quarter. Syntal Capital Partners LLC bought a new position in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the fourth quarter 
valued at approximately $565,000. Finally, Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft FI bought a new position in Ryanair 
Holdings PLC during the fourth quarter valued at approximately $212,000. 42.80% of the stock is owned by hedge 
funds and other institutional investors. Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded down 0.72% 
during mid-day trading on Tuesday, hitting $82.62. The stock had a trading volume of 102,505 shares. Ryanair 
Holdings PLC has a 52-week low of $66.09 and a 52-week high of $89.67. The stock has a market cap of $20.39 
billion, a P/E ratio of 15.10 and a beta of 0.72. The company's 50 day moving average is $83.51 and its 200-day 
moving average is $78.07.   This news story was originally published by Daily Political and is owned by of Daily 
Political. If you are reading this news story on another publication, it was stolen and reposted in violation of 
international copyright and trademark laws. The legal version of this news story can be read at 
http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/02/14/fmr-llc-sells-790583-shares-of-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay.html.  A number 
of research analysts recently issued reports on RYAAY shares. Zacks Investment Research upgraded Ryanair 
Holdings PLC from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Friday. Barclays PLC restated a 'buy' rating on 
shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on Tuesday, January 10th. Kepler Capital Markets downgraded Ryanair 
Holdings PLC from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Friday. Deutsche Bank AG upgraded Ryanair 
Holdings PLC from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a report on Monday. Finally, Beaufort Securities restated a 'buy' 
rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on Friday, October 21st. One investment analyst has rated the 
Fmr LLC Sells 790,583 Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
stock with a sell rating, five have assigned a hold rating and six have given a buy rating to the company's stock. 
Ryanair Holdings PLC currently has an average rating of 'Hold' and a consensus price target of $95.33. Ryanair 
Holdings PLC Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited 
(Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes 
between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to 
see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the latest 13F filings and 
insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily 
- Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for 
Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter[3]. [ 1]:            
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 15, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded to 'Hold' at Kepler Capital Markets
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Downgraded to 'Hold' at Kepler Capital 
Markets
Watchlist News
February 13, 2017 Monday 3:57 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 368 words
Byline: Kyle Jackson
Body
Feb 13, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)             
http://www.watchlistnews.com/logos/downgrade-image.jpgKepler Capital Markets downgraded shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NDAQ:RYAAY) from a buy rating to a hold rating in a research report report published on Friday 
morning. Ryanair Holdings plc (NDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded up 1.05% during mid-day trading on Friday, hitting $83.02. 
121,492 shares of the company's stock were exchanged. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $66.09 and a 
12 month high of $89.67. The stock has a market cap of $20.48 billion and a PE ratio of 15.07. The stock's 50 day 
moving average price is $83.53 and its 200-day moving average price is $77.85.  'Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) 
Downgraded to 'Hold' at Kepler Capital Markets' was originally posted by Watch List News and is the sole property 
of of Watch List News. If you are accessing this article on another publication, it was illegally stolen and republished 
in violation of U.S. and international copyright ...ademark laws. The original version of this article can be viewed at       
  
 
 
 
http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-downgraded-to-hold-at-kepler-capital-
markets/1114539.html.  Ryanair Holdings plc Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding 
company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving 
short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. 
Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger 
service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food 
and merchandise.Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive 
a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and related companies 
with 
Analyst 
Ratings 
Network's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[2]. 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-
basic/?symbol=NDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 13, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Scout Investments Inc.
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Scout Investments Inc.
Watchlist News
February 13, 2017 Monday 3:16 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 700 words
Byline: Micah Haroldson
Body
Feb 13, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Scout Investments Inc. 
lowered its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 9.1% during the third quarter, 
Holdings Channel[1] reports. The fund owned 342,985 shares of the company's stock after selling 34,420 shares 
during the period. 
Scout Investments Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were worth $25,734,000 at the end of the most recent 
quarter.  Other institutional investors have also bought and sold shares of the company. Smithfield Trust Co. 
boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. now owns 
1,616 shares of the company's stock valued at $113,000 after buying an additional 15 shares in the last quarter. 
Quantbot Technologies LP boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 236.6% in the third quarter. 
Quantbot Technologies LP now owns 1,656 shares of the company's stock valued at $124,000 after buying an 
additional 1,164 shares in the last quarter. Bremer Trust National Association purchased a new stake in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter valued at $202,000. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. purchased 
a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter valued at $203,000. Finally, CIBC World 
Markets Inc. purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter valued at $222,000. 
Institutional investors own 42.80% of the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) opened at 
83.33 on Monday. The stock has a 50 day moving average price of $83.53 and a 200-day moving average price of 
$77.85. The firm has a market capitalization of $20.56 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 15.12 and a beta of 0.72. 
Ryanair 
Holdings 
PLC 
has 
a 
one 
year 
low 
of 
$66.09 
and 
a 
one 
year 
high 
of 
$89.67.  
http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-shares-sold-by-scout-investments-inc/1114465.html.  
Several research firms have recently commented on RYAAY. Barclays PLC reissued a 'buy' rating on shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Tuesday, January 10th. Zacks Investment Research lowered Ryanair 
Holdings PLC from a 'hold' rating to a 'sell' rating in a research report on Wednesday, November 23rd. Deutsche 
Bank AG raised Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research report on Monday. Beaufort 
Securities reissued a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Friday, October 21st. 
Finally, Kepler Capital Markets lowered Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research 
report on Friday. One investment analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have assigned a hold rating and 
six have given a buy rating to the stock. Ryanair Holdings PLC presently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and an 
average price target of $95.33. Ryanair Holdings PLC Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is 
a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline 
serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Scout Investments Inc.
Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air 
passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to 
receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related 
companies 
with 
Analyst 
Ratings 
Network's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 13, 2017
End of Document
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 13.02.2017 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 13.02.2017 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 13, 2017 Monday 8:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 619 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - The following investment banks issued recommendations this morning as follows:  
Analyst recommendations in the dpa-AFX International ProFeed on 13.02.2017 - 08.50 am  - BERENBERG CUTS 
WACKER CHEMIE TO 'HOLD' (BUY) - PRICE TARGET 112 (115) EUR - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES HHLA 
PRICE TARGET TO 17.50 (14.00) EUR - 'HOLD' - GOLDMAN CUTS GEA GROUP PRICE TARGET TO 36 (37) 
EUR - 'NEUTRAL' - HSBC RAISES SAF-HOLLAND PRICE TARGET TO 12.50 (12.00) EUR - 'HOLD' - KEPLER 
CHEUVREUX RAISES STADA PRICE TARGET TO 62 (55) EUR - 'BUY'  - ANALYSE-FLASH: GOLDMAN 
RAISES TATE & LYLE PRICE TARGET TO 750 PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - BERENBERG CUTS ADMIRAL GROUP 
PRICE TARGET TO 1696 (1804) PENCE - 'HOLD' - BERENBERG CUTS DIRECT LINE PRICE TARGET TO 363 
(406) PENCE - 'HOLD' - BERENBERG RAISES ARCELORMITTAL PRICE TARGET TO 10.50 (9.00) EUR - 'BUY' 
- BERENBERG RAISES DCC PRICE TARGET TO 8500 (7900) PENCE - 'BUY' - BERENBERG RAISES ESURE 
GROUP PRICE TARGET TO 193 (176) PENCE - 'SELL' - BERENBERG RAISES HASTINGS GROUP PRICE 
TARGET TO 253 (234) PENCE - 'BUY' - BERNSTEIN RAISES KERING PRICE TARGET TO 250 (230) EUR - 
'OUTPERFORM' - COMMERZBANK RAISES ARCELORMITTAL PRICE TARGET TO 11.00 (9.50) EUR - 'BUY' - 
DEUTSCHE BANK CUTS UNICREDIT PRICE TARGET TO 16 (38) EUR - 'BUY' - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES 
ARCELORMITTAL PRICE TARGET TO 8.00 (7.50) EUR - 'HOLD' - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES RENTOKIL 
INITIAL PRICE TARGET TO 260 (250) PENCE - 'BUY' - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES RYANAIR TO 'BUY' (HOLD) - 
PRICE TARGET 17.60 (15.00) EUR - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES SMITH & NEPHEW TARGET TO 1,200 (1,150) 
PENCE - 'HOLD' - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES SOCIETE GENERALE PRICE TARGET TO 46 (44) EUR - 'HOLD' - 
GOLDMAN CUTS YARA PRICE TARGET TO 345 (360) NOK - 'NEUTRAL' - GOLDMAN RAISES KERING PRICE 
TARGET TO 260 (250) EUR - 'BUY' - GOLDMAN RAISES NMC HEALTH PRICE TARGET TO 2160 (1600) 
PENCE - 'BUY' - GOLDMAN RAISES TATE & LYLE PRICE TARGET TO 750 (745) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - HSBC 
CUTS UNIBAIL-RODAMCO PRICE TARGET TO 260 (275) EUR - 'BUY' - UBS CUTS INTESA SANPAOLO PRICE 
TARGET TO 2.50 (2.60) EUR - 'BUY' - UBS RAISES ELEMENTIS PRICE TARGET TO 340 (270) PENCE - 'BUY' - 
UBS RAISES ENQUEST ENERGY TO 'BUY' ('NEUTRAL') - TARGET 65 (60) PENCE - UBS RAISES KERING 
PRICE TARGET TO 255 (236) EUR - 'BUY' - UBS RAISES SOCIETE GENERALE TO 'NEUTRAL' (SELL) - PRICE 
TARGET 45 EUR - UBS RAISES UNICREDIT PRICE TARGET TO 13.80 (13.20) EUR - 'NEUTRAL'  - TRADERS: 
BERNSTEIN CUTS PRICE TARGET MUNICH RE TO 185 (188) EUR - 'OUTPERFORM' - TRADERS: JEFFERIES 
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 13.02.2017 - 08.50 am
RAISES PRICE TARGET DEUTSCHE TELEKOM TO 13.2 (12.1) EUR - TRADERS: KEPLER CHEUVREUX 
RAISES PRICE TARGET CARL ZEISS TO 42 (38) EUR - 'BUY' - TRADERS: KEPLER CHEUVREUX RAISES 
PRICE TARGET DRILLISCH TO 49 (48) EUR - 'BUY' - TRADERS: KEPLER CHEUVREUX RAISES PRICE 
TARGET FREENET TO 21 (20) EUR - 'REDUCE' - TRADERS: KEPLER CHEUVREUX RAISES PRICE TARGET 
TELEFONICA DEUTSCHLAND TO 3.8 (3.5)EUR - TRADERS: KEPLER CHEUVREUX RAISES PRICE TARGET 
UNITED INTERNET TO 46 (45) EUR - 'BUY' - TRADERS: MACQUARIE RAISES PRICE TARGET 
PROSIEBENSAT,1 TO 54 (53) EUR - 'OUTPERFORM' - TRADERS: MAINFIRST RAISES PRICE TARGET 
STADA TO 60 (55) EUR - TRADERS: CITIGROUP RAISES ASHMORE GROUP TO 'NEUTRAL' ('SELL') - 
TRADERS: CITIGROUP RAISES BERENDSEN TO 'NEUTRAL' ('SELL') - TRADERS: DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES 
RYANAIR TO 'BUY' - TRADERS: LIBERUM RESUMES ASHMORE GROUP WITH 'HOLD' - TRADERS: LIBERUM 
RESUMES ASHMORE GROUP WITH 'HOLD'  - TARGET 338 PENCE - TRADERS: MORGAN STANLEY RAISES 
AB FOODS TO 'OVERWEIGHT' - TRADERS: MORGAN STANLEY RAISES GLENCORE TO 'EQUAL-WEIGHT' 
(UNDERWEIGHT) - TRADERS: UBS RAISES ENQUEST ENERGY TO 'BUY' ('NEUTRAL')  dpa-AFX 
Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH assumes no liability for the  correctness of this information./rob    
Load-Date: February 13, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Lower as Banks Contract
European ADRs Edge Lower as Banks Contract
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 10, 2017 Friday 10:28 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 219 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.2% lower at 123.09 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Friday morning.
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Italian telecommunication company Telecom Italia (TI) and Telecom 
Italia - Savings (TI.A), 3.0% and 2.9% lower, respectively, while Banco Santander (SAN) and Dutch financial 
services company ING Groep (ING) were 2.4% and 2.1% lower, respectively. 
In the UK, Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) and Lloyds Banking Group (LYG) were 1.9% and 1.5% lower, 
respectively, while Smith & Nephew (SNN), a medical devices business, and low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY) 
were 1.7% and 1.3% lower, respectively. 
Gainers in the Continental Europe were led by Trivago (TRVG), which operates an online hotel search platform, up 
by 8%, followed by ArcelorMittal (MT), a Luxembourg steelmaker, up by 5.0% and Talend (TLND),  a provider of 
open source integration solutions, 4.8% higher. Edap (EDAP), a French medical devices developer, was 3.6% 
higher. 
And, in the UK, Amec Foster Wheeler (AMFW), a global engineering conglomerate, was 3.6% higher, followed by 
miners Rio Tinto (RIO) and BHP Billiton (BBL), 2.7% and 1.5% higher, respectively, while CRH (CRH), a building 
materials company, was up by 1.2%. 
Price: 12.29, Change: +0.78, Percent Change: +6.78
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
End of Document
Air Baltic expects 2016 profit of near-double-digit euro millions Air Baltic chief executive Martin Gauss has 
predicted that the Latvian carrier will achieve an....
Air Baltic expects 2016 profit of near-double-digit euro millions; Air Baltic 
chief executive Martin Gauss has predicted that the Latvian carrier will 
achieve an almost "double digit" euro-million profit for the full year.
Flight International
February 10, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 420 words
Body
Air Baltic chief executive Martin Gauss has predicted that the Latvian carrier will achieve an almost "double digit" 
euro-million profit for the full year.
Speaking to FlightGlobal at the Airlines for Europe (A4E) summit in Brussels on 8 February, Gauss cited reduced 
costs of financing, lower-than-expected operational costs associated with the introduction of the Bombardier 
CS300, and passenger growth as reasons that the airline foresaw posting a third consecutive year of profit.
Air Baltic made a 10.7 million ($11.4 million) net profit in 2014 and almost doubled that to 19.5 million in 2015.
Gauss says the Latvian carrier had expected profits to be "not so good" this year as a consequence of "one-off 
costs" associated with the CS300 introduction.
"But it went better than expected for two reasons," he says. "Firstly, we lowered the prices significantly, which 
helped produce high passenger numbers; and lower fuel prices helped."
Guass adds that Air Baltic's positive financial situation has helped it gain good ratings with bodies such as Export 
Development Canada, which means the airline "qualifies now like other airlines for proper financing". That, he says, 
has been a "tremendous help in maintaining profitable [growth]".
Air Baltic also grew operationally last year for the first time since it restructured, Gauss says, and managed to 
regain market share in its home base of Riga from Norwegian, Ryanair and Wizz Air. "Which is interesting: that 
means we did the right thing, or their focus was not so much on Riga," he says.
The airline has also shrugged off "strong competition" in Lithuania from Kaunas-based low-cost carriers, and has 
not been impacted by LOT Polish Airlines' acquisition of a share in Estonian carrier Nordica as they "seem to be 
taking the traffic to Russia, which is not really a Baltic solution", Gauss argues.
Air Baltic expects 2016 profit of near-double-digit euro millions Air Baltic chief executive Martin Gauss has 
predicted that the Latvian carrier will achieve an....
He adds: "We are more and more becoming the carrier that offers the connectivity, same as we do in Riga."
Regarding the state-owned airline's hunt for a new strategic partner, Gauss says Lazard is in the "final stages" of 
producing the "teaser document to send out to selected strategic partners which are major airlines globally".
He notes that the Latvian government has set itself the target of completing the privatisation by the year-end, "so 
should have the first leads coming in in late spring". He adds: "That is my expectation, but there is no deadline for 
this."
This story has been updated to specify that the profit figures in the third paragraph are on a net basis
Load-Date: March 10, 2017
End of Document
Air Baltic expects 2016 profit of near-double-digit euro millions Air Baltic chief executive Martin Gauss has 
predicted that the Latvian carrier will achieve an....
Air Baltic expects 2016 profit of near-double-digit euro millions; Air Baltic 
chief executive Martin Gauss has predicted that the Latvian carrier will 
achieve an almost "double digit" euro-million profit for the full year.
Flight International
February 10, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 402 words
Body
Air Baltic chief executive Martin Gauss has predicted that the Latvian carrier will achieve an almost "double digit" 
euro-million profit for the full year.
Speaking to FlightGlobal at the Airlines for Europe (A4) summit in Brussels on 8 February, Gauss cited reduced 
costs of financing, lower-than-expected operational costs associated with the introduction of the Bombardier 
CS300, and passenger growth as reasons that the airline foresaw posting a third consecutive year of profit.
Air Baltic made a 10.7 million ($11.4 million) profit in 2014 and almost doubled that to 19.5 million in 2015.
Gauss says the Latvian carrier had expected profits to be "not so good" this year as a consequence of "one-off 
costs" associated with the CS300 introduction.
"But it went better than expected for two reasons," he says. "Firstly, we lowered the prices significantly, which 
helped produce high passenger numbers; and lower fuel prices helped."
Guass adds that Air Baltic's positive financial situation has helped it gain good ratings with bodies such as Export 
Development Canada, which means the airline "qualifies now like other airlines for proper financing". That, he says, 
has been a "tremendous help in maintaining profitable [growth]".
Air Baltic also grew operationally last year for the first time since it restructured, Gauss says, and managed to 
regain market share in its home base of Riga from Norwegian, Ryanair and Wizz Air. "Which is interesting: that 
means we did the right thing, or their focus was not so much on Riga," he says.
The airline has also shrugged off "strong competition" in Lithuania from Kaunas-based low-cost carriers, and has 
not been impacted by LOT Polish Airlines' acquisition of a share in Estonian carrier Nordica as they "seem to be 
taking the traffic to Russia, which is not really a Baltic solution", Gauss argues.
Air Baltic expects 2016 profit of near-double-digit euro millions Air Baltic chief executive Martin Gauss has 
predicted that the Latvian carrier will achieve an....
He adds: "We are more and more becoming the carrier that offers the connectivity, same as we do in Riga."
Regarding the state-owned airline's hunt for a new strategic partner, Gauss says Lazard is in the "final stages" of 
producing the "teaser document to send out to selected strategic partners which are major airlines globally".
He notes that the Latvian government has set itself the target of completing the privatisation by the year-end, "so 
should have the first leads coming in in late spring". He adds: "That is my expectation, but there is no deadline for 
this."
Load-Date: February 10, 2017
End of Document
Syntal Capital Partners LLC Acquires New Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Syntal Capital Partners LLC Acquires New Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
February 10, 2017 Friday 12:19 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 788 words
Byline: Stacy Sanders
Body
Feb 09, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Syntal Capital Partners LLC 
acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the fourth quarter, according to 
its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm acquired 6,791 shares of the 
company's stock, valued at approximately $565,000. Ryanair Holdings PLC accounts for approximately 0.5% of 
Syntal Capital Partners LLC's investment portfolio, making the stock its 23rd largest position.  A number of other 
hedge funds have also recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. 
William Blair Investment Management LLC increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 31.7% in the 
second quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 1,328,219 shares of the company's stock 
valued at $92,364,000 after buying an additional 319,347 shares during the period. Mirae Asset Global Investments 
Co. Ltd. acquired a new position in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter valued at approximately 
$2,551,000. Todd Asset Management LLC boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 8.2% in the second 
quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now owns 294,137 shares of the company's stock valued at $20,454,000 
after buying an additional 22,361 shares during the period. Manning ...pier Advisors LLC boosted its position in 
Ryanair Holdings PLC by 2.8% in the third quarter. Manning ...pier Advisors LLC now owns 1,938,000 shares of the 
company's stock valued at $145,406,000 after buying an additional 52,262 shares during the period. Finally, Lazard 
Asset Management LLC boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 33.7% in the third quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 3,330,852 shares of the company's stock valued at $249,913,000 after buying an 
additional 838,744 shares during the period. 42.27% of the stock is owned by institutional investors. Ryanair 
Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded up 1.76% during midday trading on Thursday, reaching $82.12. The 
company's stock had a trading volume of 173,125 shares. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 1-year low of $66.09 and a 
1-year high of $89.67. The firm has a 50 day moving average price of $83.58 and a 200 day moving average price 
of $77.72. The firm has a market capitalization of $20.26 billion, a PE ratio of 14.88 and a beta of 0.72.    
http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/02/09/syntal-capital-partners-llc-acquires-new-position-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-
ryaay.html.  Several equities analysts have recently commented on the company. Canaccord Genuity assumed 
coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating for the 
company. Zacks Investment Research upgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a 
research note on Tuesday, December 13th. Barclays PLC restated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings 
PLC in a research note on Tuesday, January 10th. Bank of America Corporation cut Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 
'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' rating in a research note on Tuesday, January 3rd. Finally, Berenberg Bank 
Syntal Capital Partners LLC Acquires New Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
started coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Friday, November 11th. They set a 'buy' rating on 
the stock. One investment analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold rating and six have 
issued a buy rating to the company's stock. The company presently has an average rating of 'Hold' and a 
consensus price target of $92.25. Ryanair Holdings PLC Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) 
is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline 
serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and 
Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air 
passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to 
receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related 
companies 
with 
MarketBeat.com's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[3]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 10, 2017
End of Document
Final ruling nears on Air Berlin, Ryanair defunct route row
Final ruling nears on Air Berlin, Ryanair defunct route row
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
February 9, 2017 Thursday 5:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 224 words
Byline:  Anja Semmelroch in Karlsruhe
Dateline: Karlsruhe, Germany (dpa) - 
Body
A decade-long dispute between air carriers Ryanair and Air Berlin could come to an end soon - but still too late - 
after a German court on Thursday referred the case to another court for a final decision.
Air Berlin has been fighting for years to get the German city of Luebeck to disclose alleged advantages given to its 
competitor, Irish low-cost airline Ryanair, in the hope that Ryanair would then have to pay back the money.
Since Air Berlin originally brought the case against Ryanair years ago, the business environment has changed, with 
the Irish carrier stopping its flights to and from Luebeck.
After the airport - code LBC - declared bankruptcy twice, scheduled passenger flights are no longer conducted at all 
in the northern German city.
Germany's Federal Court of Justice pushed the ruling on to a state court in Kiel on Thursday, following a decision 
made by the European Commission this week on a state aid case from 2007 that is relevant for the Luebeck case.
The commission in Brussels said on Tuesday that certain agreements with Ryanair do not constitute state aid.
The case had been pushed around between German courts and the Court of Justice of the European Union in 
Luxembourg, while the judicial bodies were waiting on the Brussels decision.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Shane Strowmatt, +49 30 2852 31472, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: February 10, 2017
Final ruling nears on Air Berlin, Ryanair defunct route row
End of Document
Final ruling nears on Air Berlin, Ryanair defunct route row
Final ruling nears on Air Berlin, Ryanair defunct route row
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 9, 2017 Thursday 5:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 221 words
Body
       Karlsruhe, GERMANY (dpa-AFX) - A decade-long dispute between air carriers Ryanair and Air Berlin could 
come to an end soon - but still too late - after a German court on Thursday referred the case to another court for a 
final decision.  Air Berlin has been fighting for years to get the German city of Luebeck to disclose alleged 
advantages given to its competitor, Irish low-cost airline Ryanair, in the hope that Ryanair would then have to pay 
back the money.  Since Air Berlin originally brought the case against Ryanair years ago, the business environment 
has changed, with the Irish carrier stopping its flights to and from Luebeck.   After the airport - code LBC - declared 
bankruptcy twice, scheduled passenger flights are no longer conducted at all in the northern German city.  
Germany's Federal Court of Justice pushed the ruling on to a state court in Kiel on Thursday, following a decision 
made by the European Commission this week on a state aid case from 2007 that is relevant for the Luebeck case.  
The commission in Brussels said on Tuesday that certain agreements with Ryanair do not constitute state aid.  The 
case had been pushed around between German courts and the Court of Justice of the European Union in 
Luxembourg, while the judicial bodies were waiting on the Brussels decision.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: February 9, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair nostab BNP Paribas Primary New Issues : NO STAB Notice
Ryanair nostab BNP Paribas Primary New Issues : NO STAB Notice
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 8, 2017 Wednesday 5:16 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 421 words
Body
       Date: 8th Feb 2017   Not for distribution, directly or indirectly, in or into the United States or          any 
jurisdiction in which such distribution would be unlawful.                                    Ryanair DAC                       Post-
stabilisation Period Announcement  NO STABILISATION CARRIED OUT  Further  to the  pre-stabilisation period  
announcement dated  8th Feb 2017 BNP Paribas, contact: Rupert Lewis telephone: 020 7595 8222 hereby gives 
notice that no  stabilisation  (within  the  meaning  of  Article 3.2(d) of the Market Abuse Regulation  (EU/596/2014) 
or the  rules of the  Financial Conduct Authority) was undertaken  by the Stabilisation Manager(s) named below in 
relation to the offer of the following securities.    +---------------------------+-------------------------------+ | Issuer:                   
| Ryanair DAC                   | +---------------------------+-------------------------------+ | Guarantor (if any):       | Ryanair 
Holdings plc          | +---------------------------+-------------------------------+ | Aggregate nominal amount: | EUR 
750,000,000               | +---------------------------+-------------------------------+ | Description:              |  1.125% Notes due 
15 Aug 2023 | +---------------------------+-------------------------------+ | Stabilisation Manager(s): |  BNPP/Citi/Cacib              
| +---------------------------+-------------------------------+ | Offer price:              |  99.381                       | +-------------------------
--+-------------------------------+   This  announcement is for  information purposes only  and does not constitute an 
invitation or offer to underwrite, subscribe for or otherwise acquire or dispose of any securities of the Issuer in any 
jurisdiction. 
 This announcement is not an offer of securities for sale into the United States. The securities referred to above 
have not been, and will not be, registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933 and may not be offered or 
sold in the United States absent registration or an exemption from registration. There has not been and will not be a 
public offer of the securities in the United States.          This announcement is distributed by Nasdaq Corporate 
Solutions on behalf of Nasdaq Corporate Solutions clients. The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are 
solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of the information contained therein.      Source: BNP 
Paribas Primary New Issues via GlobeNewswire      R34      
Load-Date: February 8, 2017
Ryanair nostab BNP Paribas Primary New Issues : NO STAB Notice
End of Document
RYANAIR pres - BNP Paribas Primary New Issues : PRE-Stabilisation Notice
RYANAIR pres - BNP Paribas Primary New Issues : PRE-Stabilisation Notice
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 8, 2017 Wednesday 10:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 1048 words
Body
       Date: 8th February 2017   Not for distribution, directly or indirectly, in or into the United States or          any 
jurisdiction in which such distribution would be unlawful.                                    Ryanair DAC                       Pre-
stabilisation Period Announcement  BNP   Paribas, contact:  Rupert  Lewis,  telephone:  0207 595 8222 hereby  
gives notice,  as Stabilisation  Coordinator, that  the Stabilisation Manager(s) named below  may stabilise  the offer  
of the  following securities in accordance with Commission Delegated Regulation EU/1052/2016 relating to 
conditions for buy-back programmes   and  stabilisation  measures  under  the  Market  Abuse  Regulation 
(EU/596/2014). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+ 
|The 
securities:                  
| +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ |Issuer:                                |Ryanair DAC                   
| +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ |Guarantor (if any):                    |Ryanair Holdings 
plc                  | +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ |Aggregate nominal amount:              | 
EUR tba                              | +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ |Description:                   
| xx per cent Notes due 15 Aug 23      | +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ |Offer price:                   
| tba                                  | +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ |Other offer terms:                  
|n/a                                   | +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ |Stabilisation:                  
| +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ |Stabilisation Manager(s):              |BNP Paribas 
(B&D), Citi, Credit       | |                                       |Agricole                              | +---------------------------------------+--------
------------------------------+ |Stabilisation period expected to start |8 February 2017                       | |on:                  
|                                      | +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ |Stabilisation period 
expected to end no|17 March 2017                         | |later than:                            |                                      | +-----------
----------------------------+--------------------------------------+ |Existence, maximum size and conditions |The Stabilisation 
Manager(s) may      | |of use of overallotment facility:      |overallot the securities to the extent| |                  
|permitted in accordance with          | |                                       |applicable law. 
                      | 
+---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ 
|Stabilisation 
trading 
venue:           
|OTC                                   | +---------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+  In connection with the 
offer of the above securities, the Stabilisation Manager(s) may overallot the securities or effect transactions with a 
view to supporting the market price of the securities during the stabilisation period at a level higher than that which 
RYANAIR pres - BNP Paribas Primary New Issues : PRE-Stabilisation Notice
might otherwise prevail. However, stabilisation may not necessarily occur and any stabilisation action, if begun, may 
cease at any time9. Any stabilisation action or overallotment shall be conducted in accordance with all applicable 
laws and rules.  This announcement is for information purposes only and does not constitute an invitation or offer to 
underwrite, subscribe for or otherwise acquire or dispose of any securities of the Issuer in any jurisdiction.  This 
announcement and the offer of the securities to which it relates are only addressed to and directed at persons 
outside the United Kingdom and persons in the United Kingdom who have professional experience in matters 
related to investments or who are high net worth persons within Article 12(5) of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 and must not be acted on or relied on by other persons in the United 
Kingdom.  In addition, if and to the extent that this announcement is communicated in, or the offer of the securities 
to which it relates is made in, any EEA Member State that has implemented Directive 2003/71/EC, as amended 
(together with any applicable implementing measures in any Member State, the 'Prospectus Directive') before the 
publication of a prospectus in relation to the securities which has been approved by the competent authority in that 
Member State in accordance with the Prospectus Directive (or which has been approved by a competent authority 
in another Member State and notified to the competent authority in that Member State in accordance with the 
Prospectus Directive), this announcement and the offer are only addressed to and directed at persons in that 
Member State who are qualified investors within the meaning of the Prospectus Directive (or who are other persons 
to whom the offer may lawfully be addressed) and must not be acted on or relied on by other persons in that 
Member State  This announcement is not an offer of securities for sale into the United States. The securities have 
not been, and will not be, registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933 and may not be offered or sold 
in the United States absent registration or an exemption from registration. There will be no public offer of securities 
in the United States.          This announcement is distributed by Nasdaq Corporate Solutions on behalf of Nasdaq 
Corporate Solutions clients. The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely responsible for the 
content, accuracy and originality of the information contained therein.      Source: BNP Paribas Primary New Issues 
via GlobeNewswire      R6      
Load-Date: February 8, 2017
End of Document
E A4E outlines action to counter 'ludicrous' ATC strikes Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary has detailed 
how Airlines for Europe (A4E) plans to counter the....
 E A4E outlines action to counter 'ludicrous' ATC strikes; Ryanair chief 
executive Michael O'Leary has detailed how Airlines for Europe (A4E) plans 
to counter the "ludicrous market power" wielded by air traffic controllers 
when they strike.
Flight International
February 8, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 336 words
Body
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary has detailed how Airlines for Europe (A4E) plans to counter the "ludicrous 
market power" wielded by air traffic controllers when they strike.
Speaking at the A4E Summit in Brussels today, O'Leary said the airline association would work with air traffic 
management industry body the Civil Air Navigation Services Organisation (CANSO) over the next six months to 
enhance the performance of Europe's ATC network.
O'Leary says that in Europe there has been an average of one day of ATC strike action every nine days over the 
past six years. "The impact this has had on passengers and their plans is totally disproportionate," he adds, also 
citing the impact on airline profits.
A4E managing director Thomas Reynaert says the association will work with CANSO to establish "concrete 
measures".
He adds: "This is going to make a huge difference in the operations for our members."
Calling this issue its number-one concern, A4E indicated its preference for measures to include minimum-service-
level agreements with ATC providers and protection of overflights when strike action was taking place.
In her introductory presentation later in the day, EasyJet chief executive Carolyn McCall described 2016 as the 
"worst year for ATC strikes to date", while IAG chief Willie Walsh said during the summit's opening panel session 
that while solutions were being formulated by A4E, "we're going to have a summer of [ATC] disruption" in 2017.
CANSO Europe chairman Martin Rolfe says the organisation "recognises that industrial action in some European 
countries has a significant impact on airlines and the travelling public".
E A4E outlines action to counter 'ludicrous' ATC strikes Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary has detailed 
how Airlines for Europe (A4E) plans to counter the....
Rolfe adds: "We look forward to further enhancing the reliability and performance of the European aviation 
network."
He also urged sensible dialogue on the issue, suggesting that the vast majority of European ATC operators 
experienced no problems with ATC strikes.
O'Leary says 90% of Ryanair's delays can be attributed to ATC issues such as strike action and staff shortages.
Load-Date: February 9, 2017
End of Document
Aberdeen starts first Ryanair flight services to Malaga
Aberdeen starts first Ryanair flight services to Malaga
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
February 8, 2017 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 340 words
Highlight: Aberdeen International Airport Limited has started its first Ryanair flight, twice-weekly route, to Malaga 
on February 8, 2017.
Body
A second new route to holiday favourite Alicante, also operated by Ryanair, will launch on Thursday (9 Feb).Carol 
Benzie, Managing Director of Aberdeen International Airport, said: "We&#39;ve been eagerly anticipating the arrival 
of Ryanair to the airport since we announced these fantastic new routes last July and I&#39;m delighted to 
welcome the airline back to the North-east after a six-year hiatus."These routes are particularly exciting for us, as 
Alicante and Malaga were the two most requested destinations in a leisure survey we carried out with the local 
community early last year. It&#39;s brilliant to know that Aberdeen holidaymakers can now easily reach their 
favourite destinations direct from their local airport, without the inconvenience of long car journeys or multiple 
flights. Furthermore, with two flights to Alicante and Malaga per week, passengers have the choice of either a quick, 
three-day getaway or a longer break in the sun."Passengers on the inaugural Malaga flight were treated to a 
surprise musical performance in Aberdeen Airport&#39;s departure lounge by Inverurie&#39;s Right Here 
Productions, with singers and dancers initially posing as airport staff before serenading the passengers with a 
spectacular medley of classic holiday songs.Alongside the new routes launching this week, Ryanair will extend its 
Aberdeen schedule in May by launching year-round flights to Faro in Portugal&#39;s Algarve region.Robin Kiely, 
Ryanair&#39;s Head of Communications, said: "We are pleased to return to Aberdeen and launch our new routes 
to Alicante and Malaga, with Faro set to follow in May, and our low fare routes will deliver 75,000 customers through 
Aberdeen Airport this year."To celebrate, we&#39;ve launched a GBP16.99 seat sale to Alicante and Malaga for 
travel in February, ensuring Aberdeen customers can book a late winter or early summer low-cost getaway. 
These amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, so customers should log onto www.ryanair.com by midnight 
Thursday (9 Feb) and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: February 14, 2017
Aberdeen starts first Ryanair flight services to Malaga
End of Document
Emirates is riding out airline sector turbulence
Emirates is riding out airline sector turbulence
City A.M.
February 8, 2017 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 334 words
Byline: Stephan Shakespeare
Body
RYANAIR'S recent profit drop underlines how tough the airline sector is currently. It's a good time to have a closer 
look at one airline whose consumer perception is standing up well in a highly competitive industry - Emirates.
Our recent YouGov BrandIndex brand rankings point towards the success the high-end airline has enjoyed over the 
past 12 months.
In several markets, the brand improved compared to last year.
Naturally, it is most dominant in the UAE, where it is the top brand overall, beating out global behemoths such as 
Apple or Facebook. But its expansion and ambition has been reflected elsewhere. In the US, our brand tracking 
data indicates that last year Emirates was the most improved airline brand, while in Australia it ranks second in the 
overall list behind home-grown giant Qantas.
In the UK, Emirates has outstripped British Airways and Virgin Atlantic in terms of Buzz score (whether people have 
heard something positive about the brand) over the last year, and is currently the best performing company in the 
airline sector by this particular measure.
What's more, Emirates is now ahead of British Airways in terms of whether a brand provides value for money, and 
is the best performing of the high-end airlines on this front.
While part of this may be a result of BA dropping the ball in a few areas - such as its decision to scrap free 
sandwiches on its short-haul flights and threats of industrial action - Emirates' steadiness in a turbulent time is also 
a factor.
Emirates is riding out airline sector turbulence
BA still holds the top position ahead of Emirates in terms of quality score, however. This suggests it is managing to 
hold on to some of its underlying brand strength among UK consumers for the time being at least. This is something 
that may take many years for Emirates to chip away at.
As Emirates continues to impress globally, more established rivals will look to tweak their offerings, and may look to 
appeal to different demographics to maintain market share.
£ Stephan Shakespeare is the chief executive of YouGov
Load-Date: February 8, 2017
End of Document
Zweig DiMenna Associates LLC Cuts Stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Zweig DiMenna Associates LLC Cuts Stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
February 8, 2017 Wednesday 10:21 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 725 words
Byline: Jeff Wilder
Body
Feb 08, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Zweig DiMenna Associates LLC 
lowered its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 27.0% during the third quarter, 
according to its most recent 13F filing with the SEC. The firm owned 182,607 shares of the company's stock after 
selling 67,685 shares during the period. Zweig DiMenna Associates LLC's holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were 
worth $13,701,000 as of its most recent filing with the SEC. 
 Several other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently made changes to their positions in 
the stock. Smithfield Trust Co. boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. 
Smithfield Trust Co. now owns 1,616 shares of the company's stock worth $113,000 after buying an additional 15 
shares during the last quarter. Quantbot Technologies LP boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 236.6% 
in the third quarter. Quantbot Technologies LP now owns 1,656 shares of the company's stock worth $124,000 after 
buying an additional 1,164 shares during the last quarter. Bremer Trust National Association bought a new position 
in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter worth approximately $202,000. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings 
Inc. bought a new position in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter worth approximately $203,000. Finally, 
ING Groep NV bought a new position in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the second quarter worth approximately 
$209,000. 42.27% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors. Shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) opened at 80.45 on Wednesday. The stock has a market 
capitalization of $20.18 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 14.86 and a beta of 0.72. The company's 50 day moving 
average is $83.66 and its 200-day moving average is $77.70. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 1-year low of $66.09 and 
a 1-year high of $89.67.  http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/02/08/zweig-dimenna-associates-llc-cuts-stake-in-
ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay.html.  A number of research analysts have commented on the stock. Zacks Investment 
Research raised shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on 
Tuesday, December 13th. Bank of America Corporation lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'neutral' 
rating to an 'underperform' rating in a research note on Tuesday, January 3rd. BNP Paribas initiated coverage on 
shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Thursday, October 13th. They set an 'outperform' rating on 
the stock. Beaufort Securities reiterated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on 
Friday, October 21st. Finally, Berenberg Bank initiated coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research 
note on Friday, November 11th. They set a 'buy' rating on the stock. One research analyst has rated the stock with 
a sell rating, five have given a hold rating and six have given a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock 
currently has an average rating of 'Hold' and an average price target of $92.25. About Ryanair Holdings PLC 
Zweig DiMenna Associates LLC Cuts Stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds 
are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair 
Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address 
below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and 
related 
companies 
with 
MarketBeat.com's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[3]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 8, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Lower as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
European ADRs Edge Lower as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 7, 2017 Tuesday 10:50 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 242 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.26% lower at 122.20 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Tuesday morning.
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by CGG (CGG), a manufacturer of geophysical equipment, down by 
5.4%, followed by telecommunications company Telecom Italia - Savings (TI.a), 3.1% lower, and energy company 
Statoil (STO), 2.8% lower. 
Decliners in the UK were led by oil and gas production major BP (BP), 4.3% lower after it reported that its fourth-
quarter replacement cost profit was $72 million, compared with a loss of $2.23 billion for the same period in 2015. 
CRH (CRH), a building materials company, was 1.8% lower and Motif Bio (MTFB), a clinical-stage 
biopharmaceutical company, was 1.5% lower. Pharmaceutical company Avadel (AVDL) was down by 1.3% and 
low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY), was down by 1.2%. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Nabriva Therapeutics (NBRV), an Austria-based clinical-stage 
biopharmaceutical company, 8.7% higher, followed by technology investor Nokia (NOK), up by 3.0% and voxeljet 
(VJET), a German three-dimensional printer manufacturer, 1.9% higher. Natuzzi (NTZ), an Italian furniture 
manufacturer, was up by 1.4%. 
And, in the UK, education company Pearson (PSO) was 3.1% higher, followed by health care companies GW 
Pharaceuticals (GWPH), Shire (SHPG) and Amarin (AMRN) up by 2.2%, 1.5% and 1.3%, respectively
Price: 8.50, Change: +0.41, Percent Change: +5.07
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
European ADRs Edge Lower as Pharmaceutical Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
End of Document
Ryanair says profits on track despite fall in fares
Ryanair says profits on track despite fall in fares
Business World (Digest)
February 07, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 443 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair's average fares fell more than expected in the last three months of 2016 amid a glut of capacity in Europe's 
short-haul aviation market, but the low-cost giant said it remains on track to post a modest increase in annual 
profits.
Europe's short-haul carriers have struggled in recent months with overcapacity and Britain's vote to leave the 
European Union, with low-cost rivals Wizz and easyJet both trimming their annual profit forecasts in recent weeks.
Ryanair, Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers, said average fares fell 17% in the three months to Dec. 31 
and could fall up to 15% in thee months to March 31. That is worse than its earlier forecast of a fall of between 13 
and 15% over the six-month period.
Weak fares knocked its profit in the final three months of 2016, the third quarter of its financial year, by 
8% compared to last year to 95 million euros, compared to a forecast of 99 million euros in a company poll of 
analysts.
But it said it remained confident of meeting its profit guidance for its financial year to March 31 of 1.3-1.35 billion 
euros, which would imply an increase of around 7% on last year.
"It seems clear that pricing [in the year to end-March 2018] will continue to be challenging and we will respond to 
these adverse market conditions with strong traffic growth and lower unit costs," chief executive Michael O'Leary 
said in a statement.
"We expect our ... strategy will win market share from all higher cost EU competitor airlines, while we continue to 
open new markets," he said.
Ryanair says profits on track despite fall in fares
The Irish airline, which is focusing on market share rather than profit per passenger, increased its passenger 
numbers in the last three months of 2016 by 16% and further cut the number of empty seats on its planes.
It plans to grow capacity by 13% this winter compared to an industry average increase of around 9% - the highest 
level of capacity growth in the industry in a decade.
Ryanair said its costs per passenger were down 12% in its third quarter, half of that due to fuel. Unit costs for the 
full year to March 31 will fall by around 4%, it said.
Ryanair has outperformed the wider European airline market in recent months, closing on Friday at 14.77 euros, 
41% ahead of its post-Brexit low of 10.46. The ThomsonReuters European Airlines Index is up 23% from its post-
Brexit low.
"The Q3 results came in marginally light of our forecasts and consensus...However, we expect Ryanair's peers to 
face greater pressure given their narrower margins," said Liberium analyst Gerald Khoo, adding that he expected 
no change in analysts' consensus forecasts for Ryanair's full-year profit. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: February 15, 2017
End of Document
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 07.02.2017 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 07.02.2017 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 7, 2017 Tuesday 8:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 481 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - The following investment banks issued recommendations this morning as follows:  
Analyst recommendations in the dpa-AFX International ProFeed on 07.02.2017 - 08.50 am  - BERNSTEIN RAISES 
METRO PRICE TARGET TO 28 (27) EUR - 'MARKET-PERFORM' - COMMERZBANK CUTS DAIMLER PRICE 
TARGET TO 90 (95) EUR - 'BUY' - COMMERZBANK RAISES ALLIANZ PRICE TARGET TO 185 (170) EUR - 
'BUY' - COMMERZBANK RAISES MUNICH RE PRICE TARGET TO 175 (160) EUR - 'REDUCE' - DEUTSCHE 
BANK RAISES BRENNTAG PRICE TARGET TO 60 (52) EUR - 'BUY' - KEPLER CHEUVREUX CUTS DAIMLER 
TO 'HOLD' (BUY) - PRICE TARGET 72 (76) EUR - LAMPE RAISES WASHTEC TO 'ALPHA LIST' - MACQUARIE 
CUTS TELEFONICA DEUTSCHLAND PRICE TARGET TO 3.00 (3.50) EUR - MACQUARIE CUTS TELEFONICA 
DEUTSCHLAND TO 'UNDERPERFORM' (NEUTRAL) - MACQUARIE RAISES THYSSENKRUPP TO 
'OUTPERFORM' (NEUTRAL) - PRICE TARGET 29 (24) EUR  - BERENBERG RAISED TARGET FOR SANNE TO 
765 (640) PENCE - 'BUY' - BERENBERG INITIATED SERVELEC WITH 'BUY' - TARGET 391 PENCE - 
BERENBERG STARTS PHILIPS WITH 'HOLD' - PRICE TARGET 27 EUR - COMMERZBANK CUTS ZURICH TO 
'REDUCE' (HOLD) - PRICE TARGET 275 (230) SFR - COMMERZBANK RAISES SWISS RE PRICE TARGET TO 
95 (85) SFR - 'REDUCE' - DEUTSCHE BANK CUTS PREMIER OIL TO 'HOLD' ('BUY') - TARGET 90 PENCE - 
DEUTSCHE BANK INITIATES WORLDPAY WITH 'HOLD' - TARGET 300 PENCE - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES 
CAIRN ENERGY TO 'BUY' ('HOLD') - TARGET 275 (270) PENCE - GOLDMAN CUTS BBVA PRICE TARGET TO 
6.20 (7.80) EUR - 'NEUTRAL' - GOLDMAN CUTS RYANAIR PRICE TARGET TO 14.90 (15.00) EUR - 'NEUTRAL' 
- GOLDMAN CUTS SANTANDER TO 'BUY' (CONVICTION BUY LIST) - PRICE TARGET 6.75 (6.40) EUR - HSBC 
CUTS ASTRAZENECA PRICE TARGET TO 4500 (4700) PENCE - 'HOLD' - HSBC RAISES ING PRICE TARGET 
TO 15.00 (14.20) EUR - 'BUY' - HSBC RAISES INVESTEC PRICE TARGET TO 710 (580) PENCE - 'BUY' - HSBC 
RAISES RYANAIR PRICE TARGET TO 13.75 (13.50) EUR - 'HOLD' - JEFFERIES CUTS KINGFISHER PRICE 
TARGET TO 325 (335) PENCE - 'HOLD' - JPMORGAN CUTS ASTRAZENECA PRICE TARGET TO 4200 (4300) 
PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - JPMORGAN CUTS GEM DIAMONDS PRICE TARGET TO 105 (115) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' 
- JPMORGAN RAISES ANGLO AMERICAN PRICE TARGET TO 1470 (1370) PENCE - 'OVERWEIGHT' - 
JPMORGAN RAISES BHP BILLITON PRICE TARGET TO 1300 (1265) PENCE - 'UNDERWEIGHT' - JPMORGAN 
RAISES FERREXPO PRICE TARGET TO 215 (205) PENCE - 'OVERWEIGHT' - JPMORGAN RAISES RIO TINTO 
PRICE TARGET TO 4000 (3800) PENCE - 'OVERWEIGHT' - MERRILL LYNCH RAISES UBS TO 'NEUTRAL' 
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 07.02.2017 - 08.50 am
(UNDERPERFORM) - PRICE TARGET 17 (15) SFR   - TRADERS: MAINFIRST RAISES MUNICH RE TO 
'NEUTRAL' (UNDERPERFORM) - TRADERS: MACQUARIE CUTS ZURICH TO 'NEUTRAL' (OUTPERFORM) - 
TRADERS: MORGAN STANLEY RAISES NOKIA TO 'OVERWEIGHT' (EQUAL-WEIGHT) - TRADERS: RBC 
CAPITAL RAISES BERENDSEN TO 'OUTPERFORM' ('SECTOR PERFORM')  dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten 
GmbH assumes no liability for the  correctness of this information./rob    
Load-Date: February 7, 2017
End of Document
Tuesday Papers: Lloyds told to pay up for HBOS scam
Tuesday Papers: Lloyds told to pay up for HBOS scam
Citywire
February 7, 2017 Tuesday 3:33 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 1138 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And European Central Bank's Mario Draghi warns on liquidity shock as tapering nears.
Body
Top stories
•
The Times: Lloyds is under mounting pressure to pay compensation to victims of the fraud perpetrated on 
small businesses by its HBOS subsidiary after MPs accused the bank of repeatedly failing to deal with the 
wrongdoing. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: The European Central Bank is bracing for a painful ‘taper tantrum’ as it reins in 
emergency stimulus and slows the pace of bond purchases next month, all too aware that market liquidity 
could dry up suddenly. 
•
Financial Times: French bond prices fell to their lowest levels in 18 months amid fears the scandal 
engulfing one-time frontrunner FranÃ§ois Fillon could bolster populist candidates in April’s presidential 
elections, particularly far-right leader Marine Le Pen. 
•
Financial Times: The chief executive of Anglo American has called on South Africa’s government to end a 
“20-year rot” in the country’s mining industry by issuing investment-friendly legislation about black 
ownership of the sector’s companies. 
•
Financial Times: Reliance, the UK life insurer, is calling an end to 100 years of mutual ownership by 
transferring its business to an asset manager in the face of tougher regulation. 
Business and economics
•
The Times: Almost 100 US companies including Apple, Google and Facebook have backed a legal 
challenge to President Trump’s immigration ban as tensions mount between the White House and large 
parts of corporate America. 
•
The Guardian: A military conflict between the US and China would spell disaster for the world, the 
Communist party’s official mouthpiece has warned, in its first pronouncement on ties between the world’s 
two largest economies since Donald Trump moved into the White House. 
•
The Times: Ryanair has been forced to slash fares this winter, prompting an industry-wide price war, 
because it has to hit contractual passenger number targets with airports such as London Stansted. 
Tuesday Papers: Lloyds told to pay up for HBOS scam
•
The Guardian: Paris is targeting the “tens of thousands” of bankers its hopes will be driven out of London 
by Brexit, dangling the promise of tax breaks and flexible redundancy rules to complement the French 
capital’s cultural charms. 
•
The Guardian: Shell will this week unveil a plan to dismantle four enormous oil rigs in the North Sea, 
kicking off a vast and controversial decommissioning project. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Demand for new cars hit a 12-year high in January, confounding fears of a slowdown 
caused by economic uncertainty. 
•
Financial Times: The seemingly insatiable demand for Disney Princess and Frozen dolls helped US 
toymaker Hasbro buck the gloom that hit retailers over the Christmas shopping period. 
•
Financial Times: Shopping centre owner and operator Klépierre has posted its best performance since 
2012 as a turnround strategy launched five years ago starts to bear fruit. 
•
The Times: A ratings boost for Fox News during the US presidential campaign helped 21st Century Fox to 
report improved quarterly results last night. 
•
The Times: Randgold Resources has increased its dividend by 52% after record fourth-quarter production 
helped it to hit its targets for 2016. 
•
Daily Mail: Tiffany has ousted its boss after disappointing sales at the luxury jeweller failed to make 
Christmas sparkle. 
•
Financial Times: The sharp turnround in the mining industry’s fortunes will be highlighted this week when 
Rio Tinto reports results that are expected to show strong cash generation and a large reduction in net 
debt. 
•
The Times: Scotland could be left without a fossil fuel power station after SSE confirmed yesterday that it 
was reviewing the future of its Peterhead gas plant, putting 120 jobs at risk. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: A bitter family feud over the inheritance of a fortune once valued at $6 billion has 
seen engineering giant Bechtel accused of being involved in bribery. 
•
Financial Times: Swiss commodity trader Trafigura is looking to reopen an import terminal for liquefied 
natural gas in north-east England in the latest sign of how LNG is playing a growing role in global energy 
supplies. 
•
Financial Times: The board of Arconic has unanimously defended the company’s chief executive Klaus 
Kleinfeld against pressure from shareholders to oust him, saying he brings the “experience and execution” 
that the company needs. 
•
Financial Times: Shareholders in Metro have overwhelmingly backed the German retail conglomerate’s 
plans to split in two. 
•
Financial Times: Investors in Takata have begun to price in the growing risk of a court-led bankruptcy after 
Chinese-owned Key Safety Systems emerged as the leading bidder for the Japanese automotive supplier 
mired in a global recall crisis over exploding airbags. 
•
Financial Times: Lotte Group is to close three retail stores near Beijing in the first concrete example of 
South Korean business hit by fallout from Seoul’s plan to deploy a US-made missile shield. 
Share tips, comment and bids
•
Daily Mail (Trader share tips): BUY Reckitt Benckiser; SELL Beazley. 
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): BUY Bankers Investment Trust; HOLD Ithaca Energy; AVOID Randgold 
Resources. 
•
Daily Mail: Paper and packaging firm Mondi yesterday paid £33 million for Excelsior, which is behind a type 
of pouch for steam cooking in the microwave. 
Tuesday Papers: Lloyds told to pay up for HBOS scam
•
The Times: Ithaca Energy has agreed a $524 million deal to sell itself to Delek Group in an acquisition that 
immediately ran into opposition from some shareholders. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Two arms of one of Asia's richest families have agreed the £250 million sale of UK 
Broadband, the operator behind the Relish wireless brand, to the mobile operator Three. 
•
Financial Times: Ajinomoto, the Japanese seasonings group with an appetite for new international 
markets, is directing the third stage of its $2 billion global acquisition campaign at Europe. 
•
Financial Times: Electrolux is paying up to $250 million for a maker of smartphone-controlled sous vide 
cookers as the world’s second-largest manufacturer of household appliances pushes more into internet-
connected devices and new ways of selling its products. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: The London Stock Exchange and Deutsche Boerse have offered to sell the LSE’s 
French clearing operations in a bid to calm competition regulators’ concerns over the two exchanges 
merging. 
•
Financial Times: The UK has fired the starting gun on its largest ever sale of student loans to private 
investors, in an effort to divest public assets and cut the national debt. 
•
The Guardian (Comment): The US needs Australia, whether Donald Trump knows it or not. 
•
The Guardian (Comment): Trump's bonfire of banking rules could burn us all. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Technology: Silicon Valley companies could benefit from one of Donald Trump’s 
immigration reforms. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Tyson Foods: there are questions around chicken profits and alleged price 
collusion. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Ithaca/Delek: Israeli group’s offer for the oil explorer is pitched fairly. 
Load-Date: February 24, 2017
End of Document
Cautious tone at Ryanair as weak sterling takes toll Airlines
Cautious tone at Ryanair as weak sterling takes toll; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
February 7, 2017 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 15
Length: 479 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
A falling pound and a flood of rivals moving into its profitable markets dented Ryanair's performance in the last 
three months of 2016, with the airline reporting yesterday that fares and profits fell slightly more than expected 
during the quarter.
Europe's biggest low-cost carrier said it was "cautious" about the rest of its fiscal year, which finishes at the end of 
next month, and warned that its previous guidance for post-tax profits for the year - EUR1.3bn to EUR1.35bn - 
depended heavily on the absence of "security events".
For the quarter to the end of December, Ryanair's average fare per passenger fell 17 per cent year on year, to 
EUR33. The figure was slightly sharper than the 13 to 15 per cent decline it had forecast for the second half of its 
financial year.
The decline pushed post-tax profits for the quarter down 8 per cent to EUR95m, on revenues that increased 1 per 
cent to EUR1.34bn. The profit figure fell just short of the consensus expectation of EUR99m post-tax profits.
Like many European airlines , Ryanair faces a market where excess capacity has helped to drive down fares, 
terrorism has hit passenger confidence and air traffic control disruption has grown.
The airline has pushed ahead with expansion, betting that its low-cost base will enable it to withstand the decline in 
fares better than rivals.
Cautious tone at Ryanair as weak sterling takes toll Airlines
Michael O'Leary , chief executive, said fares over the winter had fallen sharply as Ryanair continued to increase 
both its traffic and the proportion of its aircraft operating at full capacity.
Passenger traffic was up 16 per cent on the same quarter the previous year. The falling yields had been 
exacerbated by the sharp decline in sterling following Britain's vote to leave the EU in June. Ryanair collects an 
outsized portion of its fare revenue in pounds, while the vast majority of its expenses are in euros and other non-
sterling currencies.
The company previously said it would reduce its planned growth at UK airports and shift capacity to mainland 
European markets such as Germany. Mr O'Leary said he expected that a "volatile" pound would continue to make 
performance difficult, and said he was sticking to his plans to emphasise growth outside the UK.
"We expect sterling to remain volatile for some time, and we may see a slowdown in economic growth in both the 
UK and Europe as we move closer to Brexit," he said. "While there may be opportunities to expand at certain UK 
airports, we expect to grow at a slower pace than previously planned in the UK and will continue to switch capacity 
into other key markets around Europe."
As well as sounding cautious about the remainder of the financial year, Ryanair said pricing would continue to be 
"challenging" next year. But Mr O'Leary vowed to push on with growth plans.
"We will respond to these adverse market conditions with strong traffic growth and lower unit costs," he said.
See Lex
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Weak sterling and rivalry take toll on Ryanair Airlines
Weak sterling and rivalry take toll on Ryanair; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
February 7, 2017 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 20
Length: 500 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Highlight: Carrier says outlook for profits depends on absence of 'security events'
Body
A falling pound and a flood of rivals moving into its profitable markets dented Ryanair's performance in the last 
three months of 2016, with the airline reporting yesterday that fares and profits fell slightly more than expected 
during the quarter.
Europe's biggest low-cost carrier said it was "cautious" about the rest of its fiscal year, which finishes at the end of 
next month, and warned that its previous guidance for post-tax profits for the year - EUR1.3bn to EUR1.35bn - 
depended heavily on the absence of "security events".
For the quarter to the end of December, Ryanair's average fare per passenger fell 17 per cent year on year, to 
EUR33. The figure was slightly sharper than the 13 to 15 per cent decline it had forecast for the second half of its 
financial year.
The decline pushed post-tax profits for the quarter down 8 per cent to EUR95m, on revenues that increased 1 per 
cent to EUR1.34bn. The profit figure fell just short of the consensus expectation of EUR99m post-tax profits.
Like many European airlines , Ryanair faces a market where excess capacity has helped to drive down fares, 
terrorism has hit passenger confidence and air traffic control disruption has grown.
Weak sterling and rivalry take toll on Ryanair Airlines
The airline has pushed ahead with expansion, betting that its low-cost base will enable it to withstand the decline in 
fares better than rivals.
Michael O'Leary , chief executive, said fares over the winter had fallen sharply as Ryanair continued to increase 
both its traffic and the proportion of its aircraft operating at full capacity.
Passenger traffic was up 16 per cent on the same quarter the previous year. The falling yields had been 
exacerbated by the sharp decline in sterling following Britain's vote to leave the EU in June.
Ryanair collects an outsized portion of its fare revenue in pounds, while the vast majority of its expenses are in 
euros and other non-sterling currencies.
The company has previously said it would reduce its planned growth at UK airports and shift capacity to mainland 
European markets such as Germany.
Mr O'Leary said he expected that a "volatile" pound would continue to make performance difficult, and added that 
he was sticking to his plans to emphasise growth outside the UK.
"We expect sterling to remain volatile for some time, and we may see a slowdown in economic growth in both the 
UK and Europe as we move closer to Brexit," he said.
"While there may be opportunities to expand at certain UK airports, we expect to grow at a slower pace than 
previously planned in the UK and will continue to switch capacity into other key markets around Europe."
As well as sounding cautious about the remainder of the financial year, Ryanair said pricing would continue to be 
"challenging" next year. But Mr O'Leary vowed to push on with growth plans.
"We will respond to these adverse market conditions with strong traffic growth and lower unit costs," he said.
Mr O'Leary forecast that Ryanair's strategy of cutting fares to keep its aircraft full would win market share.
See Lex and Lombard
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Cardiff International Airport January passenger traffic increases
Cardiff International Airport January passenger traffic increases
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
February 7, 2017 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 454 words
Highlight: Cardiff International Airport Limited has announced a 10% increase in passenger traffic for the month of 
January 2017, compared to January 2016.
Body
The rolling twelve months has seen an additional 174,000 passengers travelling through Cardiff, that&#39;s enough 
to fill the Principality Stadium two times over on a busy rugby international match day. This figure represents 15% 
growth for the rolling year.The first few weeks of 2017 has seen some exciting announcements from our airlines, 
including the confirmation that Flybe has extended its daily service to London City through to the end of October. 
The flight, which departs up to twice a day, seven days a week, is an ideal and cost effective alternative for 
business customers who have a meeting in the city and want to get home in time for dinner.Flybe has also 
announced the extension of its ski route to Geneva this season. 
The twice weekly service, which complements the weekly service to Chambery, will continue into April so that snow 
bunnies have more time to plan their escape to the slopes.Looking ahead, and following a strong start to the 6 
Nations this weekend, there are more opportunities than ever for Wales fans to catch the Blue teams away.The 
Celtic clash between Scotland v Wales will take place on the 25th February with a host of rugby charter flights 
departing from Cardiff. 1,100 supporters will travel via Enterair, totalling 15 extra aircraft movements - in addition to 
Flybe scheduled flights to the Edinburgh and Glasgow which depart up to twice a day seven days a week.Ahead of 
the Wales v France game on 18th March circa 1,100 Welsh supporters will travel to and from Paris on Flybe&#39;s 
regular daily service as well as on special charter services operated by Carpatair and Vueling.Almost 7,000 fans are 
expected to travel through Cardiff for Wales v Ireland ahead of the Celtic Clash at the Principality Stadium on 10th 
March. Creating more than 50 additional flight movements on charter flights operated by Aer Lingus, Ryanair and 
Cityjet.Flybe&#39;s regular, scheduled services will also be bringing in rugby supporters from Dublin which 
operates up to twice day, seven days a week and Belfast City, which operates daily plus a twice weekly service 
from Cork on a Friday and Monday.Debra Barber, Managing Director and COO at Cardiff Airport, commented. "This 
has been a very positive start to what&#39;s going to be a busy year for Cardiff Airport and, indeed, the capital city. 
All eyes are on Wales this year with plans for the UEFA Champions League final already well underway - and of 
course another exciting 6 Nations tournament which has just begun.With all of the sporting action ahead, plus the 
Cardiff International Airport January passenger traffic increases
start of a new route to Rome with Flybe in March; a brand new service to Madrid with Iberia Express this Easter and 
Guernsey with Blue Islands in May, 2017 is off to a flying start."
Load-Date: February 13, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair profits hit turbulence after pound fall
Ryanair profits hit turbulence after pound fall
City A.M.
February 7, 2017 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; TEASERS; Pg. 13
Length: 275 words
Byline: JASPER JOLLY
Body
RYANAIR profits hit a patch of turbulence in 2016 as the devaluation of sterling following the EU referendum 
clipped the wings of Europe's largest airline.
Profits fell by eight per cent to (EURO)95m (£81m), despite traffic growing by 16 per cent to reach 29m customers.
Revenue grew one per cent year-onyear to (EURO)1.35bn. In response to the devaluation of sterling following the 
EU referendum, Ryanair spent heavily on reducing fares, which fell by an average of 17 per cent to (EURO)33. The 
company now has net debt of (EURO)576m, which it expects to remain at year-end.
Punctuality fell by two percentage points to 88 per cent, which the airline warned may prompt it to reduce the 
amount of carry-on baggage allowed. Ryanair expects yields for the fourth quarter to fall by 15 per cent, but retains 
its full-year profit guidance at (EURO)1.35bn, which is towards the top end, as long as no further security events hit 
bookings.
"As previously guided, our fares this winter have fallen sharply as Ryanair continues to grow traffic and load fac-tors 
strongly in many European markets," said Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary.
"These falling yields were exacerbated by the sharp decline in sterling following the Brexit vote.
"We expect the uncertainty post-Brexit, weaker sterling and the switch of charter capacity from Turkey, Egypt and 
North Africa into Spain and Portugal, will continue to put downward pressure on pricing for the remainder of this 
year and full-year 2018."
He added: "We are still finalising our budget but it seems clear that pricing will continue to be challenging."
Ryanair profits hit turbulence after pound fall
Shares closed down 4.2 per cent to (EURO)14.15 yesterday.
Load-Date: February 7, 2017
End of Document
Overheads and lockers
Overheads and lockers
Financial Times (London, England)
February 7, 2017 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 20
Length: 276 words
Byline: Matthew Vincent
Body
Baggadocio (noun): arrogant behaviour on the part of low-cost airline passengers who believe themselves entitled 
to several pieces of carry-on luggage, all of which are larger than yours and would not fit into that funny little metal 
size-gauge thing at the departure gate. 
It may be only February, but it seems Ryanair has inspired a new word of the year - by announcing a review of its 
policy on cabin luggage. Finance director Neil Sorahan told the BBC: "I've seen bags twice, three times the size of 
what a bag should be going on board." Apparently, antics like these are partly to blame for a drop in punctuality, 
with only 88 per cent of aircraft arriving on time. And in budget air travel, turnround time is money.
Getting tough may also raise revenues, by making more people pay £50 to have oversized cabin bags put in the 
hold. Ryanair could do with the cash: average fares fell 17 per cent in the past quarter, to EUR33 per passenger, as 
the airline tried to stimulate demand and improve load factors.
However, the bag problem indicates a longer-term failure. Ryanair's loads do not contain enough of the business 
travellers it has been trying to attract since 2014. If they did, yields would be higher and boarding time shorter. 
Laptops are not generally carried in three giant Sports Direct holdalls.
While it fills its planes with cheapskates, Ryanair must keep hedging costs effectively. Here - with 85 per cent of fuel 
for fiscal 2018 hedged at $49 a barrel - it may be doing better than easyJet. But get it wrong, and it starts to look 
like one of those bulging duty-free bags: just another overstretched low-cost carrier.
Overheads and lockers
matthew.vincent@ft.com 
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Eye to the Main chance
Eye to the Main chance
Financial Times (London, England)
February 7, 2017 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 10
Length: 370 words
Body
Flying from London to Frankfurt takes about an hour and 40 minutes. Yet for business types thinking about using 
Ryanair: getting from the airport to the city centre currently takes the same. That looks set to change, with 
implications for the Irish carrier's rivals.
Ryanair's market share in Germany is small at about 6 per cent. One reason is that it has not always been cost 
effective to obtain slots at the country's main airports, many of which are owned by branches of city or regional 
government. That often left Ryanair serving leisure travellers from airports like Hahn and Weeze.
Frankfurt is slightly different. The airport's holding company, Fraport, is controlled by the state and city, but it is also 
quoted - and has wised up to the fact that it is losing customers to nearby rivals such as Cologne. Low-cost carriers 
account for just 4 per cent of Frankfurt's passengers and turmoil in Turkey has dented traffic; passenger numbers 
were down 1.2 per cent in the nine months to September. It has every incentive to find new customers.
From March, Ryanair will base two aircraft at Frankfurt am Main, flying once-daily to four Iberian holiday 
destinations. This might look insignificant next to the squadrons of Lufthansa jets stationed there, but the expansion 
template is familiar. Ryanair set up in Berlin with five planes in 2015; now it has nine there. Across its network, it is 
switching from secondary to primary airports mainly to increase its appeal to business customers. And its third-
quarter results, announced yesterday, show it can afford its big expansion push. Yes, fares are falling because of 
overcapacity. But costs are too; for the year to March 2018, Ryanair has hedged 85 per cent of its fuel costs at $49 
per barrel and last year it agreed a pay deal with staff.
Eye to the Main chance
Lufthansa, by contrast, is still embroiled in a bitter dispute with its pilots and is helping to prop up tottering 
compatriot Air Berlin via a lease deal . It has little prospect of matching Ryanair's average EUR33 fare.
That might not have mattered so much when the low-cost carrier was banished to secondary airports; it will become 
more of a problem as the upstart moves into established hubs.
Twitter: @FTLex Email: lex@ft.com 
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Positive passenger growth continues at Cork Airport
Positive passenger growth continues at Cork Airport
Business World (Digest)
February 07, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 192 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Cork Airport saw passenger numbers increase by 6% in January 2017 compared with the same month last year.
This represents an increase in passenger numbers of 7,000 from 125,000 in January 2016 to 132,000 in January 
2017. The increase comes on the back of a really strong performance in 2016.   The biggest increase in passenger 
growth was on routes to and from the UK, despite the challenges posed by Brexit. Traffic to and from multiple UK 
destinations including three London Airports and multiple Provincial cities in England, Scotland and Wales was up 
7% to 91,000 passengers from 85,000 the previous January.    Winter sun destinations also grew strongly 
compared to 2016 with more choice and frequency now available from Cork.   Speaking today, Managing Director 
at Cork Airport, Niall MacCarthy said, "We are very pleased with the start to the year and to see the growth 
momentum continuing into 2017. 2017 will see nine scheduled airlines operating from Cork with existing airlines Aer 
Lingus, Flybe, Iberia Express, Ryanair, Stobart Air to be joined by four new airlines, WOW air, Swiss, Volotea and 
Norwegian."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: February 16, 2017
End of Document
RYANAIR ’S PROFIT FEELS PRESSURE FROM A GLUT OF SEATS FOR SALE
RYANAIR’S PROFIT FEELS PRESSURE FROM A GLUT OF SEATS FOR SALE
Wall Street Journal Abstracts
February 7, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company: Abstracts All Rights Reserved
Section: B; Pg. 4
Length: 43 words
Byline: ROBERT WALL
Body
ABSTRACT
Ryanair Holdings reports third-quarter net profit fell nearly 8% to 94.7 million euros ($102 million) from year-earlier 
102.7 million as sales rose just 1% to 1.35 billion euros as overcapacity among European carriers depresses ticket 
prices; photo (S)
Graphic
 
Photograph
Load-Date: February 7, 2017
End of Document
LONDON MARKET EARLY CALL: Stocks Seen Flat; Euro Too Low For Schaeuble
LONDON MARKET EARLY CALL: Stocks Seen Flat; Euro Too Low For 
Schaeuble
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 6, 2017 Monday 2:04 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 551 words
Body
 London share prices are set to open flat on Monday, with currencies taking centre stage after German Finance 
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said the euro is too low against its major counterparts. 
IG says futures indicate the FTSE 100 index to open 3.1 points lower at 7,185.20. The index closed up 0.7%, or 
47.55 points, at 7,188.30 on Friday, ending 0.1% higher for the week. 
"European markets look set to open slightly higher this week, with currencies likely to remain in focus once again 
after Schaeuble took aim at the European Central Bank over the weekend for its loose monetary policy, saying that 
the currency is too low for Germany, and as such is responsible for the country's trade surplus," says CMC Markets 
chief market analyst Michael Hewson. 
The euro is quoted at USD1.0770 early Monday, hardly changed from USD1.0780 at the London equities close on 
Friday. 
Schaeuble's comments came after the Financial Times reported on Tuesday last week that Trump's top trade 
adviser accused Germany of currency exploitation.
Peter Navarro, head of Trump's National Trade Council, told the FT that the euro was like an "implicit Deutsche 
Mark" whose low valuation gave Germany an advantage over its main trading partners.
Meanwhile, the pound stands at USD1.2489 before the London open Monday, flat compared to USD1.2498 at the 
close on Friday.
In the economic calendar, German factory orders are at 0700 GMT, while the eurozone consumer confidence is at 
0930 GMT. US labor market conditions index is at 1500 GMT. 
LONDON MARKET EARLY CALL: Stocks Seen Flat; Euro Too Low For Schaeuble
In Asia on Monday, the Japanese Nikkei 225 index closed up 0.3%. In China, the Shanghai Composite is up 0.4%, 
while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong is up 0.7%.
China's private sector expanded at the weakest pace in four months in January on slower increases in 
manufacturing and services, private survey results from IHS Markit showed early Monday.
The Caixin composite output index fell to 52.2 in January from December's 45-month high of 53.5. Although a 
reading above 50 indicates expansion in the sector, the latest score suggests the slowest pace of expansion since 
September.
Manufacturing companies reported slower growth in output. Services activity growth also eased, but remained solid 
in January. The services Purchasing Managers' Index dropped to 53.1 in January from 53.4 in December.
Wall Street ended higher on Friday, with the Dow 30 up 0.9%, the S&P 500 up 0.7% and the Nasdaq Composite 
0.5% higher.
In early UK company news, Ryanair Holdings maintained its full-year guidance but with a very cautious outlook for 
the final months of its financial year, as the Irish budget airline reported a decline in profit for its third quarter.
Ryanair said it still expects full-year profit after tax to be EUR1.30 billion to EUR1.35 billion, but said this guidance is 
heavily dependent on no unforeseen "security events" taking place in the final months of its financial year, ending 
March 31.
The airline added that, looking to its 2018 financial year, pricing will continue to be "challenging" in a very 
competitive budget carrier market, but it intends to continue increasing capacity and benefiting from lower unit 
costs.
In a thin UK corporate calendar on Monday, budget airline easyJet releases January traffic statistics, while gold 
miner Randgold Resources publishes full-year results.
Load-Date: February 7, 2017
End of Document
LONDON BRIEFING: Randgold Cheers Investors With 50% Dividend Hike
LONDON BRIEFING: Randgold Cheers Investors With 50% Dividend Hike
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 6, 2017 Monday 3:22 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 204 words
Body
 London share prices opened flat to slightly higher Monday, as attention remained on currency movements and 
politics in the UK and US.
African miner Randgold Resources and budget airlines Ryanair and easyJet were the highlights of company news 
reporting early Monday. Randgold led FTSE 100 gainers, up 3.9%, after lifting its annual dividend by 50% and 
green-lighting the Gountoko Super Pit project in Mali.
Ryanair was down 1.4%, while easyJet was off 0.4%. Ryanair gave a cautious outlook for the coming quarter, but 
easyJet reported buoyant traffic figures for January.
Here is what you need to know at the London market open:----------MARKETS----------FTSE 100: flat at 
7,190.39FTSE 250: up 0.1% at 18,432.18AIM ALL-SHARE: up 0.3% at 895.97----------Hang Seng: closed up 1.0% 
at 23,348.24Nikkei 225: closed up 0.3% at 18,976.71DJIA: closed up 0.9% at 20,071.46S&amp;P 500: closed up 
0.7% at 2,297.42----------GBP: down at USD1.2475 (USD1.2498)EUR: down at USD1.0753 (USD1.0780)
GOLD: firm at USD1,222.59 per ounce (USD1,218.93)OIL (Brent): flat at USD56.92 a barrel (USD56.93)
(changes since previous London equities close)----------ECONOMICS AND GENERAL----------Monday's Key 
Economic Events still to come (all times in GMT)
Load-Date: February 7, 2017
End of Document
LONDON MARKET EARLY CALL: Stocks Seen Flat; Euro Too Low For Schaeuble
LONDON MARKET EARLY CALL: Stocks Seen Flat; Euro Too Low For 
Schaeuble
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
February 6, 2017 Monday 2:04 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 551 words
Body
 London share prices are set to open flat on Monday, with currencies taking centre stage after German Finance 
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said the euro is too low against its major counterparts. 
IG says futures indicate the FTSE 100 index to open 3.1 points lower at 7,185.20. The index closed up 0.7%, or 
47.55 points, at 7,188.30 on Friday, ending 0.1% higher for the week. 
"European markets look set to open slightly higher this week, with currencies likely to remain in focus once again 
after Schaeuble took aim at the European Central Bank over the weekend for its loose monetary policy, saying that 
the currency is too low for Germany, and as such is responsible for the country's trade surplus," says CMC Markets 
chief market analyst Michael Hewson. 
The euro is quoted at USD1.0770 early Monday, hardly changed from USD1.0780 at the London equities close on 
Friday. 
Schaeuble's comments came after the Financial Times reported on Tuesday last week that Trump's top trade 
adviser accused Germany of currency exploitation.
Peter Navarro, head of Trump's National Trade Council, told the FT that the euro was like an "implicit Deutsche 
Mark" whose low valuation gave Germany an advantage over its main trading partners.
Meanwhile, the pound stands at USD1.2489 before the London open Monday, flat compared to USD1.2498 at the 
close on Friday.
In the economic calendar, German factory orders are at 0700 GMT, while the eurozone consumer confidence is at 
0930 GMT. US labor market conditions index is at 1500 GMT. 
In Asia on Monday, the Japanese Nikkei 225 index closed up 0.3%. In China, the Shanghai Composite is up 0.4%, 
while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong is up 0.7%.
LONDON MARKET EARLY CALL: Stocks Seen Flat; Euro Too Low For Schaeuble
China's private sector expanded at the weakest pace in four months in January on slower increases in 
manufacturing and services, private survey results from IHS Markit showed early Monday.
The Caixin composite output index fell to 52.2 in January from December's 45-month high of 53.5. Although a 
reading above 50 indicates expansion in the sector, the latest score suggests the slowest pace of expansion since 
September.
Manufacturing companies reported slower growth in output. Services activity growth also eased, but remained solid 
in January. The services Purchasing Managers' Index dropped to 53.1 in January from 53.4 in December.
Wall Street ended higher on Friday, with the Dow 30 up 0.9%, the S&P 500 up 0.7% and the Nasdaq Composite 
0.5% higher.
In early UK company news, Ryanair Holdings maintained its full-year guidance but with a very cautious outlook for 
the final months of its financial year, as the Irish budget airline reported a decline in profit for its third quarter.
Ryanair said it still expects full-year profit after tax to be EUR1.30 billion to EUR1.35 billion, but said this guidance is 
heavily dependent on no unforeseen "security events" taking place in the final months of its financial year, ending 
March 31.
The airline added that, looking to its 2018 financial year, pricing will continue to be "challenging" in a very 
competitive budget carrier market, but it intends to continue increasing capacity and benefiting from lower unit 
costs.
In a thin UK corporate calendar on Monday, budget airline easyJet releases January traffic statistics, while gold 
miner Randgold Resources publishes full-year results.
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
End of Document
LONDON BRIEFING: Randgold Cheers Investors With 50% Dividend Hike
LONDON BRIEFING: Randgold Cheers Investors With 50% Dividend Hike
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
February 6, 2017 Monday 3:22 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 204 words
Body
 London share prices opened flat to slightly higher Monday, as attention remained on currency movements and 
politics in the UK and US.
African miner Randgold Resources and budget airlines Ryanair and easyJet were the highlights of company news 
reporting early Monday. Randgold led FTSE 100 gainers, up 3.9%, after lifting its annual dividend by 50% and 
green-lighting the Gountoko Super Pit project in Mali.
Ryanair was down 1.4%, while easyJet was off 0.4%. Ryanair gave a cautious outlook for the coming quarter, but 
easyJet reported buoyant traffic figures for January.
Here is what you need to know at the London market open:----------MARKETS----------FTSE 100: flat at 
7,190.39FTSE 250: up 0.1% at 18,432.18AIM ALL-SHARE: up 0.3% at 895.97----------Hang Seng: closed up 1.0% 
at 23,348.24Nikkei 225: closed up 0.3% at 18,976.71DJIA: closed up 0.9% at 20,071.46S&amp;P 500: closed up 
0.7% at 2,297.42----------GBP: down at USD1.2475 (USD1.2498)EUR: down at USD1.0753 (USD1.0780)
GOLD: firm at USD1,222.59 per ounce (USD1,218.93)OIL (Brent): flat at USD56.92 a barrel (USD56.93)
(changes since previous London equities close)----------ECONOMICS AND GENERAL----------Monday's Key 
Economic Events still to come (all times in GMT)
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
End of Document
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Flat Market Call; Ryanair Has Cautious Outlook
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Flat Market Call; Ryanair Has Cautious 
Outlook
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 6, 2017 Monday 2:32 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 798 words
Body
 Stocks in London are called for a flat open on Monday, with currencies taking centre stage after German Finance 
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said the euro is too low against its major counterparts. 
In early UK company news, budget airline easyJet said it carried more passengers and achieved a higher load 
factor year-on-year in January, while peer Ryanair Holdings maintained its full-year earnings guidance but with a 
very cautious outlook for the final months of its financial year.
Meanwhile, Randgold Resources said it met the bottom of its production target for 2016, posting large rises in 
revenue and profit as a result of higher gold prices and lower costs.
IG says futures indicate the FTSE 100 index to open 1.9 points higher at 7,190.20. The index closed up 0.7%, or 
47.55 points, at 7,188.30 on Friday, ending 0.1% higher for the week. 
The euro's exchange rate is too low for Germany, and the European Central Bank's expansive monetary policy has 
inflated the German economy's export surplus, Schaeuble told Tagesspiegel newspaper.
"The ECB must make policy that works for Europe as a whole," Schaeuble said in an interview for Sunday's edition 
of the German newspaper, according to Reuters. "It is too loose for Germany," Schaeuble noted. 
The euro is quoted at USD1.0760 early Monday, hardly changed from USD1.0780 at the London equities close on 
Friday. 
Schaeuble's comments came after the Financial Times reported on Tuesday last week that Trump's top trade 
adviser accused Germany of currency exploitation.
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Flat Market Call; Ryanair Has Cautious Outlook
Peter Navarro, head of Trump's National Trade Council, told the FT that the euro was like an "implicit Deutsche 
Mark" whose low valuation gave Germany an advantage over its main trading partners.
In early economic data Monday, provisional data from Destatis showed that Germany's factory orders expanded at 
the fastest pace in more than two years in December. Factory orders climbed 5.2% on a monthly basis in 
December, in contrast to a revised 3.6% fall seen in November. The monthly growth was the fastest since July 
2014, when the rate was 6.6% and also faster than the expected 0.5% increase.
Meanwhile, the pound stands at USD1.2483 before the London open Monday, soft compared to USD1.2498 at the 
close on Friday.
In a thin economic calendar on Monday, eurozone consumer confidence is at 0930 GMT. The US labor market 
conditions index is at 1500 GMT. 
In Asia on Monday, the Japanese Nikkei 225 index closed up 0.3%. In China, the Shanghai Composite ended up 
0.5%, while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong continues up 0.6%.
Survey results from IHS Markit showed that China's private sector expanded at the weakest pace in four months in 
January on slower increases in manufacturing and services.
The Caixin composite output index fell to 52.2 in January from December's 45-month high of 53.5. Although a 
reading above 50 indicates expansion in the sector, the latest score suggests the slowest pace of expansion since 
September.
Manufacturing companies reported slower growth in output. Services activity growth also eased, but remained solid 
in January. The services Purchasing Managers' Index dropped to 53.1 in January from 53.4 in December.
Wall Street ended higher on Friday, with the Dow 30 up 0.9%, the S&P 500 up 0.7% and the Nasdaq Composite 
0.5% higher.
London-listed easyJet said it carried 4.7 million passengers in January, compared to 4.3 million a year earlier, up 
11%. On a rolling 12-month basis, passenger numbers were up 6.9% to 74.9 million, it said.
The FTSE 100 budget carrier added its load factor improved by 1.2 percentage points in January to 86.2% from 
85.0% the year before. On the rolling 12-month measure, its load factor fell to 91.5% from 9.6%, down 0.1 
percentage point.
Dublin-listed Ryanair maintained its full-year guidance but with a very cautious outlook for the final months of its 
financial year, as the Irish budget airline reported a decline in profit for its third quarter.
Ryanair said it still expects full-year profit after tax to be EUR1.30 billion to EUR1.35 billion, but said this guidance is 
heavily dependent on no unforeseen "security events" taking place in the final months of its financial year, ending 
March 31.
The airline added that, looking to its 2018 financial year, pricing will continue to be "challenging" in a very 
competitive budget carrier market, but it intends to continue increasing capacity and benefiting from lower unit 
costs.
Meanwhile, Randgold Resources achieved gold production of 1.25 million, the very bottom of its 1.25 million to 1.30 
million ounce target range, rising from 1.21 million ounces in 2015. 
The African miner said total revenue for the year rose to USD1.20 billion from USD1.00 billion a year earlier, with 
overall costs dropping year-on-year to USD819.8 million from USD829.3 million.
Load-Date: February 7, 2017
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Flat Market Call; Ryanair Has Cautious Outlook
End of Document
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: Randgold And Banks Support FTSE 100
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: Randgold And Banks Support FTSE 100
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 6, 2017 Monday 6:54 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 698 words
Body
 Stocks in London had made a fairly lacklustre start to the week by midday on Monday, with Randgold Resources 
and other miners helping the FTSE 100 index to slim gains. 
The blue-chip index was up 0.2%, or 11.96 points, at 7,200.26. The FTSE 250 was flat at 18,407.49, and the AIM 
All-Share was up 0.2% at 895.67.
The BATS UK 100 index was up 0.1% at 12,172.77, the BATS 250 was down 0.1% at 16,733.75, and the BATS 
Small Companies was up 0.2% at 10,875.93. 
In Europe, the CAC 40 in Paris was down 0.1% and the DAX 30 in Frankfurt down 0.4%.
Before the New York open, futures indicated the DJIA, S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq Composite indices all flat. 
Randgold Resources led gainers in the FTSE 100, up 4.7%. The African miner raised its dividend for 2016 by more 
than half after a strong financial performance during the year and vowed to keep a hefty cash balance for new 
projects while maintaining future payouts.
Gold production in 2016 was 1.25 million ounces, the very bottom of Randgold's 1.25 million to 1.30 million ounce 
target range, rising from 1.21 million ounces in 2015. Gold sales rose to 1.24 million ounces from 1.21 million 
ounces, defying analysts expectations for a year-on-year drop. 
Randgold increased its total dividend for 2016 by 52% on the back of the results, paying USD1.00 per share 
compared to the 66 cent dividend payout in 2015.
Mining peers Fresnillo and Glencore traded up 1.6% and 0.8%, respectively. 
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: Randgold And Banks Support FTSE 100
"Fresnillo and Glencore have also been pushed upwards as expectations of their gold earnings are increased. 
Fresnillo only recently logged record gold and silver output for 2016, and so could well outperform," said Michael 
Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets. 
Banks continued their momentum from Friday, with Standard Chartered up 2.3%, Lloyds Banking, up 0.8% and 
Barclays up 0.4%. The sector was benefiting from US President Donald Trump's executive order to rein in the 
Dodd-Frank financial regulations, designed to constrain the amount of risk taken by lenders. 
Lloyds also was upgraded to Buy from Hold by analysts at HSBC.
Ryanair Holdings maintained its full-year guidance but with a very cautious outlook for the final months of its 
financial year, as the Irish budget airline reported Monday a decline in profit for its third quarter.
Ryanair said it still expects full-year profit after tax to be EUR1.30 billion to EUR1.35 billion, but said this guidance is 
heavily dependent on no unforeseen "security events" taking place in the final months of its financial year, ending 
March 31.
The airline added that, looking to its 2018 financial year, pricing will continue to be "challenging" in a very 
competitive budget carrier market, but it intends to continue increasing capacity and benefiting from lower unit 
costs.
Ryanair, a vocal proponent of the UK remaining in the European Union, also said there remains "significant 
uncertainty" about what a so-called 'hard' Brexit would entail. This uncertainty, it said, will continue to present a 
challenge for its business in the final months of its current financial year and into financial 2018. The stock traded 
down 2.6%. 
Gem Diamonds was the worst performer in the FTSE All-Share, down 6.7%, after the company said full-year 
production from the flagship Letseng mine remained broadly flat from the previous year, while output from the 
Ghaghoo mine more than halved.
The diamond miner said the Letseng mine in Lesotho produced 108,206 carats in 2016, in line with guidance and a 
touch below the 108,579 carats recovered in 2015, with the average grade not moving year-on-year at 1.63 
grammes of gold per tonne. 
The mine delivered seven diamonds that sold for "more than USD1 million" over the year. The miner said the 
operation recovered "fewer large special diamonds than expected". 
At Ghaghoo, which typically produces lower-value stones, reported a 55% production drop in 2016 to 40,976 carats 
from 91,499 carats, with grade dropping by one-third to 18.9 carats per hundred tonnes from 28 carats. 
Still ahead in the economic calendar, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi will speak at the European 
Parliament in Brussels at 1400 GMT, and the US labor market conditions index is at 1500 GMT. 
Load-Date: February 7, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Lower as Banking Losses Offset Pharma Gains
European ADRs Edge Lower as Banking Losses Offset Pharma Gains
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 6, 2017 Monday 10:33 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 271 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.7% lower at 122.48 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Monday morning. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Materialise (MTLS), a Belgian provider of 3D printing software and 
services, 3.8% lower, followed by Luxottica (LUX), an Italian eyewear company, down by 2.9% and 
STMicroelectronics - New York Shares (STM), an Italian semiconductor company, down by 2.6%. Banco Santander 
(SAN), a Spanish banking company, was 2.5% lower. 
In the UK, low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY) was down by 2.8%, followed by Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), 2.1% 
lower and Amec Foster Wheeler (AMFW), a global engineering conglomerate, 1.8% lower. CRH (CRH), a building 
materials company, was down by 1.6%. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led Advanced Accelorator Applications (AAAP), a radiopharmaceutical 
company, 1.5% higher, followed by VimpelCom - Com (VIP), a Dutch provider of telecommunications services, 
1.3% higher, and TiGenix (TIG), a Belgium-based biopharmaceutical company, 0.7% higher. Ascendis Pharma 
(ASND), a Danish clinical stage biopharmaceutical company, was up by 0.5%. 
And, in the UK, pharmaceutical companies Amarin (AMRN) and GW Pharmaceuticals (GWPH) were 3.8% and 
0.5% higher, respectively, while gold miner Randgold Resources (GOLD) was up by 3.4% after posting double-digit 
growth in its profit for the 2016 year, supported by record gold production and better-than-projected results at its 
flagship mine in Mali. National Grid (NGG), an electricity and gas utility company, was 0.3% higher. 
Price: 34.57, Change: +0.32, Percent Change: +0.93
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
European ADRs Edge Lower as Banking Losses Offset Pharma Gains
End of Document
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Flat Market Call; Ryanair Has Cautious Outlook
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Flat Market Call; Ryanair Has Cautious 
Outlook
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
February 6, 2017 Monday 2:32 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 798 words
Body
 Stocks in London are called for a flat open on Monday, with currencies taking centre stage after German Finance 
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said the euro is too low against its major counterparts. 
In early UK company news, budget airline easyJet said it carried more passengers and achieved a higher load 
factor year-on-year in January, while peer Ryanair Holdings maintained its full-year earnings guidance but with a 
very cautious outlook for the final months of its financial year.
Meanwhile, Randgold Resources said it met the bottom of its production target for 2016, posting large rises in 
revenue and profit as a result of higher gold prices and lower costs.
IG says futures indicate the FTSE 100 index to open 1.9 points higher at 7,190.20. The index closed up 0.7%, or 
47.55 points, at 7,188.30 on Friday, ending 0.1% higher for the week. 
The euro's exchange rate is too low for Germany, and the European Central Bank's expansive monetary policy has 
inflated the German economy's export surplus, Schaeuble told Tagesspiegel newspaper.
"The ECB must make policy that works for Europe as a whole," Schaeuble said in an interview for Sunday's edition 
of the German newspaper, according to Reuters. "It is too loose for Germany," Schaeuble noted. 
The euro is quoted at USD1.0760 early Monday, hardly changed from USD1.0780 at the London equities close on 
Friday. 
Schaeuble's comments came after the Financial Times reported on Tuesday last week that Trump's top trade 
adviser accused Germany of currency exploitation.
Peter Navarro, head of Trump's National Trade Council, told the FT that the euro was like an "implicit Deutsche 
Mark" whose low valuation gave Germany an advantage over its main trading partners.
LONDON MARKET PRE-OPEN: Flat Market Call; Ryanair Has Cautious Outlook
In early economic data Monday, provisional data from Destatis showed that Germany's factory orders expanded at 
the fastest pace in more than two years in December. Factory orders climbed 5.2% on a monthly basis in 
December, in contrast to a revised 3.6% fall seen in November. The monthly growth was the fastest since July 
2014, when the rate was 6.6% and also faster than the expected 0.5% increase.
Meanwhile, the pound stands at USD1.2483 before the London open Monday, soft compared to USD1.2498 at the 
close on Friday.
In a thin economic calendar on Monday, eurozone consumer confidence is at 0930 GMT. The US labor market 
conditions index is at 1500 GMT. 
In Asia on Monday, the Japanese Nikkei 225 index closed up 0.3%. In China, the Shanghai Composite ended up 
0.5%, while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong continues up 0.6%.
Survey results from IHS Markit showed that China's private sector expanded at the weakest pace in four months in 
January on slower increases in manufacturing and services.
The Caixin composite output index fell to 52.2 in January from December's 45-month high of 53.5. Although a 
reading above 50 indicates expansion in the sector, the latest score suggests the slowest pace of expansion since 
September.
Manufacturing companies reported slower growth in output. Services activity growth also eased, but remained solid 
in January. The services Purchasing Managers' Index dropped to 53.1 in January from 53.4 in December.
Wall Street ended higher on Friday, with the Dow 30 up 0.9%, the S&P 500 up 0.7% and the Nasdaq Composite 
0.5% higher.
London-listed easyJet said it carried 4.7 million passengers in January, compared to 4.3 million a year earlier, up 
11%. On a rolling 12-month basis, passenger numbers were up 6.9% to 74.9 million, it said.
The FTSE 100 budget carrier added its load factor improved by 1.2 percentage points in January to 86.2% from 
85.0% the year before. On the rolling 12-month measure, its load factor fell to 91.5% from 9.6%, down 0.1 
percentage point.
Dublin-listed Ryanair maintained its full-year guidance but with a very cautious outlook for the final months of its 
financial year, as the Irish budget airline reported a decline in profit for its third quarter.
Ryanair said it still expects full-year profit after tax to be EUR1.30 billion to EUR1.35 billion, but said this guidance is 
heavily dependent on no unforeseen "security events" taking place in the final months of its financial year, ending 
March 31.
The airline added that, looking to its 2018 financial year, pricing will continue to be "challenging" in a very 
competitive budget carrier market, but it intends to continue increasing capacity and benefiting from lower unit 
costs.
Meanwhile, Randgold Resources achieved gold production of 1.25 million, the very bottom of its 1.25 million to 1.30 
million ounce target range, rising from 1.21 million ounces in 2015. 
The African miner said total revenue for the year rose to USD1.20 billion from USD1.00 billion a year earlier, with 
overall costs dropping year-on-year to USD819.8 million from USD829.3 million.
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
End of Document
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Randgold Leads FTSE 100 Gains After Dividend Hike
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Randgold Leads FTSE 100 Gains After Dividend 
Hike
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 6, 2017 Monday 3:36 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 926 words
Body
 Stocks in London were mixed at the open on Monday, with Randgold Resources leading FTSE 100 gainers after 
the gold miner hiked its dividend by 50%.
Randgold said the increase in payout was on the back of its 2016 production results, as it met the bottom of its 
target for the year, posting large rises in revenue and profit as a result of higher gold prices and lower costs. 
Meanwhile, shares in Ryanair Holdings were lower after the Irish budget airline maintained its full-year earnings 
guidance but with a very cautious outlook for the final months of its financial year.
The FTSE 100 index was up 2.23 points at 7,190.53. The FTSE 250 was down 0.1% at 18,395.39, and the AIM All-
Share was up 0.3% at 896.33.
The BATS UK 100 index was down 0.1% at 12,156.24, the BATS 250 was 0.2% lower at 16,710.65, and the BATS 
Small Companies was up 0.1% at 10,866.57.
The French CAC 40 stock index was flat and the German DAX 30 was down 0.4%.
The euro's exchange rate is too low for Germany, and the European Central Bank's expansive monetary policy has 
inflated the German economy's export surplus, the country's Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble Schaeuble told 
Tagesspiegel newspaper.
"The ECB must make policy that works for Europe as a whole," Schaeuble said in an interview for Sunday's edition 
of the German newspaper, according to Reuters. "It is too loose for Germany," Schaeuble noted.
The euro was quoted at USD1.0743 at the London equities open, hardly changed from USD1.0780 at the close on 
Friday.
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Randgold Leads FTSE 100 Gains After Dividend Hike
Schaeuble's comments came after the Financial Times reported on Tuesday last week that the head of US 
President Donald Trump's National Trade Council, Peter Navarro, believes the euro is like an "implicit Deutsche 
Mark" whose low valuation gives Germany an advantage over its main trading partners.
ECB President Mario Draghi will speak at the European Parliament in Brussels at 1400 GMT. Also on Monday, 
eurozone consumer confidence data are at 0930 GMT. 
Already released, provisional data from Destatis showed that Germany's factory orders expanded at the fastest 
pace in more than two years in December. Factory orders climbed 5.2% on a monthly basis in December, in 
contrast to a revised 3.6% fall seen in November. The monthly growth was the fastest since July 2014, when the 
rate was 6.6% and also faster than the expected 0.5% increase.
In Asia on Monday, the Japanese Nikkei 225 index closed up 0.3%. In China, the Shanghai Composite ended up 
0.5%, while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong finished 1.0% higher.
Accendo Markets analyst Michael van Dulken said gains in London were limited by weak China Purchasing 
Managers Index readings, "fuelling fresh debate about the state of the Chinese economy". 
Survey results from IHS Markit showed that the Caixin composite output index fell to 52.2 in January from 
December's 45-month high of 53.5. Although a reading above 50 indicates expansion in the sector, the latest score 
suggests the slowest pace of expansion since September.
Manufacturing companies reported slower growth in output. Services activity growth also eased, but remained solid 
in January. The services PMI dropped to 53.1 in January from 53.4 in December.
Back in London, Randgold was up 4.0%. The miner achieved gold production of 1.25 million ounces, the very 
bottom of its 1.25 million to 1.30 million ounce target range, rising from 1.21 million ounces in 2015. Total revenue 
for the year rose to USD1.20 billion from USD1.00 billion a year earlier, with overall costs dropping year-on-year to 
USD819.8 million from USD829.3 million.
Pretax profit in the year increased to USD402.6 million from just USD260.8 million the year before. Profit 
attributable to shareholders increased to USD247.5 million from USD188.7 million. The African miner hikes its 2016 
total dividend by 52% to USD1 per share compared to the 66 cent dividend payout in 2015. 
Shares in fellow miner Glencore were up 1.4%, while gold miner Fresnillo was up 0.8%. In the FTSE 250, 
Hochschild Mining was up 1.9%.  
SSE was up 0.4%. The FTSE 100-listed energy generator and supplier said it has provisionally secured 
agreements under the 2017 capacity market auction to provide a total of 4,451 megawatts of de-rated electricity 
generation capacity from October 2017 to September 2018. 
Meanwhile, National Grid was up 0.2%. The firm said it has started a new share buyback programme with the "sole 
purpose" of reducing its share capital following the dilution that resulted from the take-up of its scrip dividend offer. 
The programme will end "no later" than February 17, and follows the end of the last share buyback programme on 
January 27. National Grid said it will purchase a maximum of GBP35 million worth of shares, capped at 3.5 million 
shares, with all purchased shares to be held in the treasury. 
Ryanair was down 1.9%. The air carrier maintained its full-year guidance but with a very cautious outlook for the 
final months of its financial year, as it reported a decline in profit for its third quarter. It said it still expects full-year 
profit after tax to be EUR1.30 billion to EUR1.35 billion, but said this guidance is heavily dependent on no 
unforeseen "security events" taking place in the final months of its financial year, ending March 31.
The airline added that, looking to its 2018 financial year, pricing will continue to be "challenging" in a very 
competitive budget carrier market, but it intends to continue increasing capacity and benefiting from lower unit 
costs.
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Randgold Leads FTSE 100 Gains After Dividend Hike
Also in the economic calendar, the US labor market conditions index is at 1500 GMT. 
Load-Date: February 7, 2017
End of Document
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: Randgold And Banks Support FTSE 100
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: Randgold And Banks Support FTSE 100
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
February 6, 2017 Monday 6:54 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 698 words
Body
 Stocks in London had made a fairly lacklustre start to the week by midday on Monday, with Randgold Resources 
and other miners helping the FTSE 100 index to slim gains. 
The blue-chip index was up 0.2%, or 11.96 points, at 7,200.26. The FTSE 250 was flat at 18,407.49, and the AIM 
All-Share was up 0.2% at 895.67.
The BATS UK 100 index was up 0.1% at 12,172.77, the BATS 250 was down 0.1% at 16,733.75, and the BATS 
Small Companies was up 0.2% at 10,875.93. 
In Europe, the CAC 40 in Paris was down 0.1% and the DAX 30 in Frankfurt down 0.4%.
Before the New York open, futures indicated the DJIA, S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq Composite indices all flat. 
Randgold Resources led gainers in the FTSE 100, up 4.7%. The African miner raised its dividend for 2016 by more 
than half after a strong financial performance during the year and vowed to keep a hefty cash balance for new 
projects while maintaining future payouts.
Gold production in 2016 was 1.25 million ounces, the very bottom of Randgold's 1.25 million to 1.30 million ounce 
target range, rising from 1.21 million ounces in 2015. Gold sales rose to 1.24 million ounces from 1.21 million 
ounces, defying analysts expectations for a year-on-year drop. 
Randgold increased its total dividend for 2016 by 52% on the back of the results, paying USD1.00 per share 
compared to the 66 cent dividend payout in 2015.
Mining peers Fresnillo and Glencore traded up 1.6% and 0.8%, respectively. 
"Fresnillo and Glencore have also been pushed upwards as expectations of their gold earnings are increased. 
Fresnillo only recently logged record gold and silver output for 2016, and so could well outperform," said Michael 
Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets. 
LONDON MARKET MIDDAY: Randgold And Banks Support FTSE 100
Banks continued their momentum from Friday, with Standard Chartered up 2.3%, Lloyds Banking, up 0.8% and 
Barclays up 0.4%. The sector was benefiting from US President Donald Trump's executive order to rein in the 
Dodd-Frank financial regulations, designed to constrain the amount of risk taken by lenders. 
Lloyds also was upgraded to Buy from Hold by analysts at HSBC.
Ryanair Holdings maintained its full-year guidance but with a very cautious outlook for the final months of its 
financial year, as the Irish budget airline reported Monday a decline in profit for its third quarter.
Ryanair said it still expects full-year profit after tax to be EUR1.30 billion to EUR1.35 billion, but said this guidance is 
heavily dependent on no unforeseen "security events" taking place in the final months of its financial year, ending 
March 31.
The airline added that, looking to its 2018 financial year, pricing will continue to be "challenging" in a very 
competitive budget carrier market, but it intends to continue increasing capacity and benefiting from lower unit 
costs.
Ryanair, a vocal proponent of the UK remaining in the European Union, also said there remains "significant 
uncertainty" about what a so-called 'hard' Brexit would entail. This uncertainty, it said, will continue to present a 
challenge for its business in the final months of its current financial year and into financial 2018. The stock traded 
down 2.6%. 
Gem Diamonds was the worst performer in the FTSE All-Share, down 6.7%, after the company said full-year 
production from the flagship Letseng mine remained broadly flat from the previous year, while output from the 
Ghaghoo mine more than halved.
The diamond miner said the Letseng mine in Lesotho produced 108,206 carats in 2016, in line with guidance and a 
touch below the 108,579 carats recovered in 2015, with the average grade not moving year-on-year at 1.63 
grammes of gold per tonne. 
The mine delivered seven diamonds that sold for "more than USD1 million" over the year. The miner said the 
operation recovered "fewer large special diamonds than expected". 
At Ghaghoo, which typically produces lower-value stones, reported a 55% production drop in 2016 to 40,976 carats 
from 91,499 carats, with grade dropping by one-third to 18.9 carats per hundred tonnes from 28 carats. 
Still ahead in the economic calendar, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi will speak at the European 
Parliament in Brussels at 1400 GMT, and the US labor market conditions index is at 1500 GMT. 
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
End of Document
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 6, 2017 Monday 12:00 PM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 849 words
Body
 The European markets fluctuated between small gains and losses early Monday, but turned definitively lower in the 
afternoon. 
Economic data proved a mixed bag at the start of the new trading week, with Eurozone Sentix Investor Confidence 
Index declining slightly in February, while German factory orders rose the most in two and a half years in 
December.
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi testified before the European Parliament Monday. Draghi stated 
that the recent resilience shown by the euro area economy in the face of several negative shocks suggests it is on 
the right track, but it still requires monetary policy stimulus to bring inflation to the target in a sustainable way.
"Our December decisions strike a balance between our growing confidence that the euro area's economic 
prospects are firming up, and - at the same time - the lack of a clear sign of sustained convergence of inflation rates 
towards the desired level," Draghi said while addressing lawmakers in the European Parliament in Brussels.
Business leaders said the decision to leave the EU had a negative impact on their business since June, Ipsos Mori 
survey showed Monday.
The annual Ipsos MORI Captains of Industry study found that 58% felt negative impact of Brexit, while 31% said the 
Brexit had made no difference to the business situation.
"However, it is not all doom and gloom," Ben Page, CEO of Ipsos MORI, said. "32% of respondents said they think 
their business will start to feel the positive effects of leaving the EU in five years' time."
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index weakened by 0.60%. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip 
stocks decreased 1.06%, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major UK companies, lost 0.40%.
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
The DAX of Germany dropped 1.22% and the CAC 40 of France fell 0.98%. The FTSE 100 of the UK declined 
0.22% and the SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 0.24%.
In Frankfurt, fish distributor, Deutsche See, sued Volkswagen over the automaker's emission cheating scandal, 
sending its stock down 2.58%.
Deutsche Bank fell 1.70%. The country's largest lender has apologized in full-page German newspaper ads for 
"serious errors" that cost the lender billions of euros.
In Paris, Total SA dipped 0.10% as oil prices edged higher on a weaker dollar and amid fears of new US sanctions 
against Iran.
In London, Randgold Resources jumped 4.15% as the gold miner hiked its 2016 dividend by over 50% after 
reporting a 76% jump in fourth-quarter net profit.
Shares of Ryanair Holdings fell 4.20% after the Irish no-frills airline issued cautious outlook for the remainder of the 
year after reporting an 8% drop in third-quarter profit.
Airline easyJet dropped 0.80% after reporting its passenger traffic and load factor figures for January.
Barclays declined 0.63% after reports that it is embarking on a major back office overhaul.
UniCredit dropped 6.86% in Milan after it signed a deal Saturday with trade unions to cut 3,900 jobs as part of a 
business plan unveiled in December by its new chief executive.
Eurozone investor confidence dropped less-than-expected in February as financial experts' assessment of the 
current situation was the strongest since mid-2011 though their expectations were hurt, mainly by the impact of the 
actions of the Trump administration, results of a monthly survey by Sentix showed Monday.
The investor confidence index for euro area fell to 17.4 from 18.2 in January, which was the highest score since 
August 2015, figures from the think tank showed. Economists had forecast a weaker reading of 16.5.
Germany's factory orders expanded at the fastest pace in more than two years in December on robust domestic 
demand, provisional data from Destatis showed Monday. Factory orders climbed 5.2% on a monthly basis in 
December, in contrast to a 3.6% fall in November, which was revised from 2.5%.
The latest monthly growth was the biggest since July 2014, when the rate was 6.6% and also faster than the 
expected 0.5% increase.
German construction firms registered slower growth in January but were more optimistic about the coming year, 
survey data from IHS Markit showed Monday. The construction Purchasing Managers' Index fell to 52.0 in January 
from December's nine-month high of 54.9. This was the lowest score since last August.
Germany's real earnings increased at a stronger pace in 2016, data from Destatis showed Monday. The index of 
real earnings increased 1.8% in 2016 but slower than the 2.4% growth registered in 2015. In the same period, 
inflation was 0.5%.
China's private sector expanded at the weakest pace in four months in January on slower increases in 
manufacturing and services, private survey results from IHS Markit showed Monday. The Caixin composite output 
index fell to 52.2 in January from December's 45-month high of 53.5.
The services sector in China continued to expand in January, albeit at a slower pace, the latest survey from Caixin 
showed on Monday with a PMI score of 53.1.
That's down from 53.4 in December, although it remains well above the boom-or-bust line of 50 that separates 
expansion from contraction.
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
Load-Date: February 7, 2017
End of Document
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Randgold Leads FTSE 100 Gains After Dividend Hike
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Randgold Leads FTSE 100 Gains After Dividend 
Hike
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
February 6, 2017 Monday 3:36 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 926 words
Body
 Stocks in London were mixed at the open on Monday, with Randgold Resources leading FTSE 100 gainers after 
the gold miner hiked its dividend by 50%.
Randgold said the increase in payout was on the back of its 2016 production results, as it met the bottom of its 
target for the year, posting large rises in revenue and profit as a result of higher gold prices and lower costs. 
Meanwhile, shares in Ryanair Holdings were lower after the Irish budget airline maintained its full-year earnings 
guidance but with a very cautious outlook for the final months of its financial year.
The FTSE 100 index was up 2.23 points at 7,190.53. The FTSE 250 was down 0.1% at 18,395.39, and the AIM All-
Share was up 0.3% at 896.33.
The BATS UK 100 index was down 0.1% at 12,156.24, the BATS 250 was 0.2% lower at 16,710.65, and the BATS 
Small Companies was up 0.1% at 10,866.57.
The French CAC 40 stock index was flat and the German DAX 30 was down 0.4%.
The euro's exchange rate is too low for Germany, and the European Central Bank's expansive monetary policy has 
inflated the German economy's export surplus, the country's Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble Schaeuble told 
Tagesspiegel newspaper.
"The ECB must make policy that works for Europe as a whole," Schaeuble said in an interview for Sunday's edition 
of the German newspaper, according to Reuters. "It is too loose for Germany," Schaeuble noted.
The euro was quoted at USD1.0743 at the London equities open, hardly changed from USD1.0780 at the close on 
Friday.
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Randgold Leads FTSE 100 Gains After Dividend Hike
Schaeuble's comments came after the Financial Times reported on Tuesday last week that the head of US 
President Donald Trump's National Trade Council, Peter Navarro, believes the euro is like an "implicit Deutsche 
Mark" whose low valuation gives Germany an advantage over its main trading partners.
ECB President Mario Draghi will speak at the European Parliament in Brussels at 1400 GMT. Also on Monday, 
eurozone consumer confidence data are at 0930 GMT. 
Already released, provisional data from Destatis showed that Germany's factory orders expanded at the fastest 
pace in more than two years in December. Factory orders climbed 5.2% on a monthly basis in December, in 
contrast to a revised 3.6% fall seen in November. The monthly growth was the fastest since July 2014, when the 
rate was 6.6% and also faster than the expected 0.5% increase.
In Asia on Monday, the Japanese Nikkei 225 index closed up 0.3%. In China, the Shanghai Composite ended up 
0.5%, while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong finished 1.0% higher.
Accendo Markets analyst Michael van Dulken said gains in London were limited by weak China Purchasing 
Managers Index readings, "fuelling fresh debate about the state of the Chinese economy". 
Survey results from IHS Markit showed that the Caixin composite output index fell to 52.2 in January from 
December's 45-month high of 53.5. Although a reading above 50 indicates expansion in the sector, the latest score 
suggests the slowest pace of expansion since September.
Manufacturing companies reported slower growth in output. Services activity growth also eased, but remained solid 
in January. The services PMI dropped to 53.1 in January from 53.4 in December.
Back in London, Randgold was up 4.0%. The miner achieved gold production of 1.25 million ounces, the very 
bottom of its 1.25 million to 1.30 million ounce target range, rising from 1.21 million ounces in 2015. Total revenue 
for the year rose to USD1.20 billion from USD1.00 billion a year earlier, with overall costs dropping year-on-year to 
USD819.8 million from USD829.3 million.
Pretax profit in the year increased to USD402.6 million from just USD260.8 million the year before. Profit 
attributable to shareholders increased to USD247.5 million from USD188.7 million. The African miner hikes its 2016 
total dividend by 52% to USD1 per share compared to the 66 cent dividend payout in 2015. 
Shares in fellow miner Glencore were up 1.4%, while gold miner Fresnillo was up 0.8%. In the FTSE 250, 
Hochschild Mining was up 1.9%.  
SSE was up 0.4%. The FTSE 100-listed energy generator and supplier said it has provisionally secured 
agreements under the 2017 capacity market auction to provide a total of 4,451 megawatts of de-rated electricity 
generation capacity from October 2017 to September 2018. 
Meanwhile, National Grid was up 0.2%. The firm said it has started a new share buyback programme with the "sole 
purpose" of reducing its share capital following the dilution that resulted from the take-up of its scrip dividend offer. 
The programme will end "no later" than February 17, and follows the end of the last share buyback programme on 
January 27. National Grid said it will purchase a maximum of GBP35 million worth of shares, capped at 3.5 million 
shares, with all purchased shares to be held in the treasury. 
Ryanair was down 1.9%. The air carrier maintained its full-year guidance but with a very cautious outlook for the 
final months of its financial year, as it reported a decline in profit for its third quarter. It said it still expects full-year 
profit after tax to be EUR1.30 billion to EUR1.35 billion, but said this guidance is heavily dependent on no 
unforeseen "security events" taking place in the final months of its financial year, ending March 31.
The airline added that, looking to its 2018 financial year, pricing will continue to be "challenging" in a very 
competitive budget carrier market, but it intends to continue increasing capacity and benefiting from lower unit 
costs.
LONDON MARKET OPEN: Randgold Leads FTSE 100 Gains After Dividend Hike
Also in the economic calendar, the US labor market conditions index is at 1500 GMT. 
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
End of Document
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
February 6, 2017 Monday 12:00 PM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 849 words
Body
 The European markets fluctuated between small gains and losses early Monday, but turned definitively lower in the 
afternoon. 
Economic data proved a mixed bag at the start of the new trading week, with Eurozone Sentix Investor Confidence 
Index declining slightly in February, while German factory orders rose the most in two and a half years in 
December.
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi testified before the European Parliament Monday. Draghi stated 
that the recent resilience shown by the euro area economy in the face of several negative shocks suggests it is on 
the right track, but it still requires monetary policy stimulus to bring inflation to the target in a sustainable way.
"Our December decisions strike a balance between our growing confidence that the euro area's economic 
prospects are firming up, and - at the same time - the lack of a clear sign of sustained convergence of inflation rates 
towards the desired level," Draghi said while addressing lawmakers in the European Parliament in Brussels.
Business leaders said the decision to leave the EU had a negative impact on their business since June, Ipsos Mori 
survey showed Monday.
The annual Ipsos MORI Captains of Industry study found that 58% felt negative impact of Brexit, while 31% said the 
Brexit had made no difference to the business situation.
"However, it is not all doom and gloom," Ben Page, CEO of Ipsos MORI, said. "32% of respondents said they think 
their business will start to feel the positive effects of leaving the EU in five years' time."
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index weakened by 0.60%. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip 
stocks decreased 1.06%, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major UK companies, lost 0.40%.
The DAX of Germany dropped 1.22% and the CAC 40 of France fell 0.98%. The FTSE 100 of the UK declined 
0.22% and the SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 0.24%.
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
In Frankfurt, fish distributor, Deutsche See, sued Volkswagen over the automaker's emission cheating scandal, 
sending its stock down 2.58%.
Deutsche Bank fell 1.70%. The country's largest lender has apologized in full-page German newspaper ads for 
"serious errors" that cost the lender billions of euros.
In Paris, Total SA dipped 0.10% as oil prices edged higher on a weaker dollar and amid fears of new US sanctions 
against Iran.
In London, Randgold Resources jumped 4.15% as the gold miner hiked its 2016 dividend by over 50% after 
reporting a 76% jump in fourth-quarter net profit.
Shares of Ryanair Holdings fell 4.20% after the Irish no-frills airline issued cautious outlook for the remainder of the 
year after reporting an 8% drop in third-quarter profit.
Airline easyJet dropped 0.80% after reporting its passenger traffic and load factor figures for January.
Barclays declined 0.63% after reports that it is embarking on a major back office overhaul.
UniCredit dropped 6.86% in Milan after it signed a deal Saturday with trade unions to cut 3,900 jobs as part of a 
business plan unveiled in December by its new chief executive.
Eurozone investor confidence dropped less-than-expected in February as financial experts' assessment of the 
current situation was the strongest since mid-2011 though their expectations were hurt, mainly by the impact of the 
actions of the Trump administration, results of a monthly survey by Sentix showed Monday.
The investor confidence index for euro area fell to 17.4 from 18.2 in January, which was the highest score since 
August 2015, figures from the think tank showed. Economists had forecast a weaker reading of 16.5.
Germany's factory orders expanded at the fastest pace in more than two years in December on robust domestic 
demand, provisional data from Destatis showed Monday. Factory orders climbed 5.2% on a monthly basis in 
December, in contrast to a 3.6% fall in November, which was revised from 2.5%.
The latest monthly growth was the biggest since July 2014, when the rate was 6.6% and also faster than the 
expected 0.5% increase.
German construction firms registered slower growth in January but were more optimistic about the coming year, 
survey data from IHS Markit showed Monday. The construction Purchasing Managers' Index fell to 52.0 in January 
from December's nine-month high of 54.9. This was the lowest score since last August.
Germany's real earnings increased at a stronger pace in 2016, data from Destatis showed Monday. The index of 
real earnings increased 1.8% in 2016 but slower than the 2.4% growth registered in 2015. In the same period, 
inflation was 0.5%.
China's private sector expanded at the weakest pace in four months in January on slower increases in 
manufacturing and services, private survey results from IHS Markit showed Monday. The Caixin composite output 
index fell to 52.2 in January from December's 45-month high of 53.5.
The services sector in China continued to expand in January, albeit at a slower pace, the latest survey from Caixin 
showed on Monday with a PMI score of 53.1.
That's down from 53.4 in December, although it remains well above the boom-or-bust line of 50 that separates 
expansion from contraction.
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Gluskin Sheff Assoc Inc.
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Gluskin Sheff Assoc Inc.
Watchlist News
February 6, 2017 Monday 11:41 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 801 words
Byline: Nicole Kennedy
Body
Feb 06, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Gluskin Sheff ...soc Inc. 
lowered its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 0.7% during the third quarter, Holdings 
Channel[1] reports. The fund owned 267,394 shares of the company's stock after selling 1,820 shares during the 
period. 
Ryanair Holdings PLC accounts for approximately 1.9% of Gluskin Sheff ...soc Inc.'s investment portfolio, making 
the stock its 25th largest position. Gluskin Sheff ...soc Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were worth 
$19,624,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  A number of other large investors also recently made changes 
to their positions in the company. Capital International Investors boosted its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 
27.3% in the second quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 4,309,978 shares of the company's stock 
valued at $299,716,000 after buying an additional 925,015 shares in the last quarter. Capital Guardian Trust Co. 
raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 193.6% in the second quarter. Capital Guardian Trust Co. 
now owns 1,161,850 shares of the company's stock worth $80,795,000 after buying an additional 766,059 shares 
during the last quarter. FMR LLC raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 3.7% in the second 
quarter. FMR LLC now owns 16,678,645 shares of the company's stock worth $1,159,833,000 after buying an 
additional 595,992 shares during the last quarter. Neuberger Berman Group LLC raised its position in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC by 27.3% in the third quarter. Neuberger Berman Group LLC now owns 2,670,534 shares of 
the company's stock worth $200,370,000 after buying an additional 572,293 shares during the last quarter. Finally, 
Thornburg Investment Management Inc. purchased a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the 
second quarter worth approximately $30,760,000. 42.27% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other 
institutional investors. Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) opened at 85.65 on Monday. The firm's 50-day 
moving average price is $83.81 and its 200 day moving average price is $77.40. The firm has a market 
capitalization of $21.48 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 15.93 and a beta of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 1-
year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of $89.67.  http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-shares-
sold-by-gluskin-sheff-assoc-inc/1101025.html.  A number of research analysts recently commented on RYAAY 
shares. BNP Paribas started coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Thursday, October 13th. 
They issued an 'outperform' rating for the company. Bank of America Corporation lowered Ryanair Holdings PLC 
from a 'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' rating in a research note on Tuesday, January 3rd. Zacks Investment 
Research lowered Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Wednesday, 
October 12th. HSBC Holdings plc upgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a 
research note on Wednesday, November 2nd. Finally, Berenberg Bank started coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Gluskin Sheff Assoc Inc.
in a research note on Friday, November 11th. They issued a 'buy' rating for the company. One equities research 
analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have assigned a hold rating and six have given a buy rating to the 
company's stock. The stock presently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and an average target price of $92.25. 
Ryanair Holdings PLC Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair 
Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point 
routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various 
ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to 
see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and 
insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily 
- Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for 
Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter[4]. [ 1]:       
     http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Cautious On Outlook As Q3 Profit Down; Stock Dips
Ryanair Cautious On Outlook As Q3 Profit Down; Stock Dips
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 6, 2017 Monday 10:07 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 475 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Shares of Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) were losing around 2 percent in the 
early morning trading in London after the Irish no-frills airline issued a cautious outlook for the remainder of the year 
2017, after reporting weak profit in the third quarter.  Looking ahead, the company noted that with less than 2 
months of the year to go, and no Easter in March, it expects the fourth-quarter yields to decline by as much as 15 
percent. It will carry over 119 million customers in fiscal year 2017, and full year ex-fuel unit costs should fall by 
about 4 percent. 
 The company maintained full-year profit guidance in a range of 1.30 billion euros to 1.35 billion euros. The 
guidance heavily depends on the absence of any unforeseen security events affecting close in bookings.  Ryanair 
expects to continue to grow strongly in continental Europe in 2017 with more new bases and routes still to be 
added.  Looking out into fiscal year 2018, the company is still finalising budget but it seems clear that pricing will 
continue to be challenging.  The company expects the uncertainty post Brexit, weaker Sterling and the switch of 
charter capacity from Turkey, Egypt and North Africa into Spain and Portugal, will continue to put downward 
pressure on pricing for the remainder of this year and FY18.   The firm plans to respond to these adverse market 
conditions with strong traffic growth and lower unit costs.  The company expects load factor active/price passive 
strategy will win market share from all higher cost EU competitor airlines, while it continue to open new markets.  
For the third quarter, profit attributable to equity holders of parent fell about 8 percent to 94.7 million euros from last 
year's 102.7 million euros. On a per share basis, earnings declined 2 percent to 7.55 euros from 7.68 euros in the 
prior year.   Total operating revenues from continuing operations for the third-quarter quarter grew 1 percent to 1.35 
billion euros from 1.33 billion euros last year.  Scheduled revenues fell 4 percent from last year to 950.5 million 
euros, offset by a 15 percent gain in Ancillary revenues.  Ancillary revenues were driven by a solid performance in 
reserved seating, priority boarding, on-board sales and car hire offset by lower travel insurance and hotels 
penetration.  Average fares fell by 17 percent to just 33 euros per passenger, while traffic grew 16 percent to 28.8 
million customers. Load factors rose 2 percent to 95 percent.  Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary said, 'As previously 
guided, our fares this winter have fallen sharply as Ryanair continues to grow traffic and load factors strongly in 
many European markets. These falling yields were exacerbated by the sharp decline in Sterling following the Brexit 
vote.'  In London, Ryanair shares were trading at 14.49 euros, down 1.90 percent.      
Ryanair Cautious On Outlook As Q3 Profit Down; Stock Dips
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Q3 Profit Down; Backs FY Profit Guidance
Ryanair Q3 Profit Down; Backs FY Profit Guidance
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 6, 2017 Monday 7:27 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 379 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported that its profit 
attributable to equity holders of parent for the third-quarter fell about 8% to 94.7 million euros from last year's 102.7 
million euros, as average fares fell by 17% to just 33 euros per passenger, while traffic grew 16% to 29 million 
customers. On a per share basis, earnings declined to 7.55 euros from 7.68 euros in the prior year.   Ryanair's CEO 
Michael O'Leary said, 'As previously guided, our fares this winter have fallen sharply as Ryanair continues to grow 
traffic and load  factors  strongly  in  many  European markets. 
These falling yields were  exacerbated by the sharp decline in Sterling  following  the  Brexit  vote.  Ryanair  
responded to this weaker  environment by continuing to improve our 'Always Getting Better' (AGB) customer 
experience, cutting costs, and stimulating demand  through  lower  fares  which  has  seen  load  factors  jump  to  
record  levels.'  Total operating revenues from continuing operations for the third-quarter quarter grew 1% to 1.35 
billion euros from 1.33 billion euros last year.  The company expects to continue to grow strongly in continental 
Europe in 2017 with more new bases and routes still to be added.  The company said its outlook for the  remainder 
of  fiscal year 2017 is cautious. With less than 2 months of the year to go, and no Easter in March, the company  
expects the fourth-quarter yields to decline by as much as -15%. It will carry over 119 million customers in fiscal 
year 2017,  and full year ex-fuel unit costs should fall by about 4%.  Accordingly. the company maintained full year 
profit guidance in a range of 1.30 billion euros to 1.35 billion euros, but this guidance heavily depends on the 
absence of any unforeseen security events affecting close in bookings.  Looking out into fiscal year 2018, the 
company is still finalising budget but it seems clear that pricing will continue to be challenging and it will  respond to 
these adverse  market conditions with strong traffic growth and lower unit costs.  The company expects load factor 
active/price passive strategy will win market share from all higher cost EU competitor airlines, while it  continue to 
open new markets.      
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
Ryanair Q3 Profit Down; Backs FY Profit Guidance
End of Document
FTSE 100 Turns Positive After Weak Start
FTSE 100 Turns Positive After Weak Start
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 6, 2017 Monday 11:24 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 264 words
Body
       VIENNA (dpa-AFX) - U.K. shares rose in choppy trade Monday and the pound tumbled as investors pondered 
what Trump's presidency means for the global economy.   U.K. Prime Minister Theresa is facing a bitter fight for 
Brexit this week, with as many as 27 lawmakers in her ruling Conservative Party ready to back moves to water 
down the historic EU Bill, media reports suggest. 
 The day's economic reports proved a mixed bag, with a gauge of Eurozone investor sentiment falling slightly in 
February, matching expectations, while German factory orders rose the most in two and a half years in December, 
more than making up for a steep decline in the previous month.  Closer home, U.K. car registrations increased at 
the start of the year, driven by higher demand from individual consumers, industry data showed. Car sales 
advanced an annual 2.9 percent to 174,564 units in January, the highest level since 2005.  The benchmark FTSE 
100 was up 17 points or 0.24 percent at 7,205 in opening deals, erasing early losses.   Randgold Resources 
jumped 4 percent. The gold miner hiked its 2016 dividend by over 50 percent after reporting a 76 percent jump in 
fourth-quarter net profit.   Barclays advanced 1.5 percent after reports that it is embarking on a major back office 
overhaul.   Shares of Ryanair Holdings fell nearly 2 percent. The Irish no-frills airline reported an 8 percent drop in 
third-quarter profit but said it's 'cautious' about meeting full-year targets.  Airline easyJet was little changed after 
reporting its passenger traffic and load factor figures for January.      
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
E Sale-and-leaseback market 'hot': Ryanair finance chief The sale-and-leaseback market looks "hot at the 
moment" for the right credit, Ryanair finance chief Nei....
 E Sale-and-leaseback market 'hot': Ryanair finance chief; The sale-and-
leaseback market looks "hot at the moment" for the right credit, Ryanair 
finance chief Neil Sorahan told FlightGlobal at a media briefing in London 
today.
Flight International
February 6, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 254 words
Body
The sale-and-leaseback market looks "hot at the moment" for the right credit, Ryanair finance chief Neil Sorahan 
told FlightGlobal at a media briefing in London today.
"We haven't been in that market for some period of time," Sorahan adds, noting that roughly 9% of the budget 
carrier's fleet is leased.
Sorahan indicates that Ryanair might be looking to diversify its funding mix after relying solely on its own cash to 
acquire new aircraft over its current fiscal year ending 31 March.
"We continue to look at all cheap sources of financing out there. We are very interested in the lowest cost of 
financing. Whether that's cash, whether its debt capital markets, sale-and-leasebacks, Japanese operating leases 
or other forms of finance, we look at everything, and we continue to look at everything," says Sorahan.
The airline will by March 2017 have financed 52 Boeing 737-800s through its own balance sheet in the current 
financial year, Sorahan notes.
In July last year, at a first-quarter results briefing, Sorahan said that Ryanair's own cash represented the cheapest 
financing available for the carrier.
"We're buying aircraft cheaper than we ever did. Fifty-two aircraft we take this year are delivering at euro/US dollar 
rates of approximately $1.31. So we're locking in aircraft in euro terms cheaper than we've ever done," he 
commented at the time.
Ryanair will take 42 737-800s in its 2017-18 financial year, 44 in 2018-19 and 21 in 2019-20, its financial 
presentation for the third quarter ended 31 December 2016 shows.
E Sale-and-leaseback market 'hot': Ryanair finance chief The sale-and-leaseback market looks "hot at the 
moment" for the right credit, Ryanair finance chief Nei....
Load-Date: February 7, 2017
End of Document
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 6, 2017 Monday 5:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 898 words
Body
       VIENNA (dpa-AFX) - The European markets fluctuated between small gains and losses early Monday, but 
turned definitively lower in the afternoon. Economic data proved a mixed bag at the start of the new trading week, 
with Eurozone Sentix Investor Confidence Index declining slightly in February, while German factory orders rose the 
most in two and a half years in December.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi testified before the 
European Parliament Monday. Draghi stated that the recent resilience shown by the euro area economy in the face 
of several negative shocks suggests it is on the right track, but it still requires monetary policy stimulus to bring 
inflation to the target in a sustainable way. 
 'Our December decisions strike a balance between our growing confidence that the euro area's economic 
prospects are firming up, and - at the same time - the lack of a clear sign of sustained convergence of inflation rates 
towards the desired level,' Draghi said while addressing lawmakers in the European Parliament in Brussels.  
Business leaders said the decision to leave the EU had a negative impact on their business since June, Ipsos Mori 
survey showed Monday.   The annual Ipsos MORI Captains of Industry study found that 58 percent felt negative 
impact of Brexit, while 31 percent said the Brexit had made no difference to the business situation.   'However, it is 
not all doom and gloom,' Ben Page, CEO of Ipsos MORI, said. '32 percent of respondents said they think their 
business will start to feel the positive effects of leaving the EU in five years' time.'  The pan-European Stoxx Europe 
600 index weakened by 0.60 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks decreased 1.06 
percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major U.K. companies, lost 0.40 percent.  The DAX 
of Germany dropped 1.22 percent and the CAC 40 of France fell 0.98 percent. The FTSE 100 of the U.K. declined 
0.22 percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 0.24 percent.  In Frankfurt, fish distributor, Deutsche See, 
sued Volkswagen over the automaker's emission cheating scandal, sending its stock down 2.58 percent.  Deutsche 
Bank fell 1.70 percent. The country's largest lender has apologized in full-page German newspaper ads for 'serious 
errors' that cost the lender billions of euros.  In Paris, Total SA dipped 0.10 percent as oil prices edged higher on a 
weaker dollar and amid fears of new U.S. sanctions against Iran.  In London, Randgold Resources jumped 4.15 
percent as the gold miner hiked its 2016 dividend by over 50 percent after reporting a 76 percent jump in fourth-
quarter net profit.   Shares of Ryanair Holdings fell 4.20 percent after the Irish no-frills airline issued cautious 
outlook for the remainder of the year after reporting an 8 percent drop in third-quarter profit.  Airline easyJet 
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
dropped 0.80 percent after reporting its passenger traffic and load factor figures for January.  Barclays declined 
0.63 percent after reports that it is embarking on a major back office overhaul.  UniCredit dropped 6.86 percent in 
Milan after it signed a deal Saturday with trade unions to cut 3,900 jobs as part of a business plan unveiled in 
December by its new chief executive.  Eurozone investor confidence dropped less-than-expected in February as 
financial experts' assessment of the current situation was the strongest since mid-2011 though their expectations 
were hurt, mainly by the impact of the actions of the Trump administration, results of a monthly survey by Sentix 
showed Monday.   The investor confidence index for euro area fell to 17.4 from 18.2 in January, which was the 
highest score since August 2015, figures from the think tank showed. Economists had forecast a weaker reading of 
16.5.  Germany's factory orders expanded at the fastest pace in more than two years in December on robust 
domestic demand, provisional data from Destatis showed Monday. Factory orders climbed 5.2 percent on a monthly 
basis in December, in contrast to a 3.6 percent fall in November, which was revised from 2.5 percent.   The latest 
monthly growth was the biggest since July 2014, when the rate was 6.6 percent and also faster than the expected 
0.5 percent increase.  German construction firms registered slower growth in January but were more optimistic 
about the coming year, survey data from IHS Markit showed Monday. The construction Purchasing Managers' 
Index fell to 52.0 in January from December's nine-month high of 54.9. This was the lowest score since last August.  
Germany's real earnings increased at a stronger pace in 2016, data from Destatis showed Monday. The index of 
real earnings increased 1.8 percent in 2016 but slower than the 2.4 percent growth registered in 2015. In the same 
period, inflation was 0.5 percent.  China's private sector expanded at the weakest pace in four months in January 
on slower increases in manufacturing and services, private survey results from IHS Markit showed Monday. The 
Caixin composite output index fell to 52.2 in January from December's 45-month high of 53.5.   The services sector 
in China continued to expand in January, albeit at a slower pace, the latest survey from Caixin showed on Monday 
with a PMI score of 53.1.  That's down from 53.4 in December, although it remains well above the boom-or-bust line 
of 50 that separates expansion from contraction.      
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair underlines slower UK growth outlook over EU exit Irish budget carrier Ryanair has stressed that it 
expects business in the UK to slow as the country hea....
Ryanair underlines slower UK growth outlook over EU exit; Irish budget 
carrier Ryanair has stressed that it expects business in the UK to slow as 
the country heads towards a formal withdrawal from the European Union.
Flight International
February 6, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 208 words
Body
Irish budget carrier Ryanair has stressed that it expects business in the UK to slow as the country heads towards a 
formal withdrawal from the European Union.
The carrier says there is still “significant uncertainty” regarding the eventual relationship between the UK and the 
EU, particularly given the signals that the UK is preparing for a complete separation rather than an agreement 
retaining certain market-access rights.
This uncertainty will “continue to represent a challenge for our business” over 2017-18, says Ryanair in a third-
quarter financial statement, adding that it expects UK currency to “remain volatile for some time”.
“We may see a slowdown in economic growth in both the UK and Europe as we move closer to [the UK’s exit],” it 
adds. “While there may be opportunities to expand at certain UK airportswe expect to grow at a slower pace than 
previously planned in the UK.”
Ryanair says it will continue to shift capacity to other markets in Europe if opportunities for UK expansion diminish.
“We hope that the UK remains a member of Europe’s ‘open skies’ system,” it says. “Until the final outcome is 
known, however, we will continue to adapt to changing circumstances in the best interest of our customers, people 
and shareholders.”
Load-Date: February 10, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Cautious On Outlook As Q3 Profit Down; Stock Dips
Ryanair Cautious On Outlook As Q3 Profit Down; Stock Dips
RTT News (United States)
February 6, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 485 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Shares of Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) were losing around 2 percent in the early morning 
trading in London after the Irish no-frills airline issued a cautious outlook for the remainder of the year 2017, after 
reporting weak profit in the third quarter.
Looking ahead, the company noted that with less than 2 months of the year to go, and no Easter in March, it 
expects the fourth-quarter yields to decline by as much as 15 percent. It will carry over 119 million customers in 
fiscal year 2017, and full year ex-fuel unit costs should fall by about 4 percent.
The company maintained full-year profit guidance in a range of 1.30 billion euros to 1.35 billion euros. The guidance 
heavily depends on the absence of any unforeseen security events affecting close in bookings.
Ryanair expects to continue to grow strongly in continental Europe in 2017 with more new bases and routes still to 
be added.
Looking out into fiscal year 2018, the company is still finalising budget but it seems clear that pricing will continue to 
be challenging.
The company expects the uncertainty post Brexit, weaker Sterling and the switch of charter capacity from Turkey, 
Egypt and North Africa into Spain and Portugal, will continue to put downward pressure on pricing for the remainder 
of this year and FY18.
The firm plans to respond to these adverse market conditions with strong traffic growth and lower unit costs.
The company expects load factor active/price passive strategy will win market share from all higher cost EU 
competitor airlines, while it continue to open new markets.
For the third quarter, profit attributable to equity holders of parent fell about 8 percent to 94.7 million euros from last 
year's 102.7 million euros. On a per share basis, earnings declined 2 percent to 7.55 euros from 7.68 euros in the 
prior year.
Total operating revenues from continuing operations for the third-quarter quarter grew 1 percent to 1.35 billion 
euros from 1.33 billion euros last year.
Ryanair Cautious On Outlook As Q3 Profit Down; Stock Dips
Scheduled revenues fell 4 percent from last year to 950.5 million euros, offset by a 15 percent gain in Ancillary 
revenues.
Ancillary revenues were driven by a solid performance in reserved seating, priority boarding, on-board sales and 
car hire offset by lower travelinsurance and hotels penetration.
Average fares fell by 17 percent to just 33 euros per passenger, while traffic grew 16 percent to 28.8 million 
customers. Load factors rose 2 percent to 95 percent.
Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary said, "As previously guided, our fares this winter have fallen sharply as Ryanair 
continues to grow traffic and load factors strongly in many European markets. These falling yields were 
exacerbated by the sharp decline in Sterling following the Brexit vote."
In London, Ryanair shares were trading at 14.49 euros, down 1.90 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2017 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Q3 Profit Down; Backs FY Profit Guidance
Ryanair Q3 Profit Down; Backs FY Profit Guidance
RTT News (United States)
February 6, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 385 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported that its profit attributable to equity 
holders of parent for the third-quarter fell about 8% to 94.7 million euros from last year's 102.7 million euros, as 
average fares fell by 17% to just 33 euros per passenger, while traffic grew 16% to 29 million customers. On a per 
share basis, earnings declined to 7.55 euros from 7.68 euros in the prior year.
Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary said, "As previously guided, our fares this winter have fallen sharply as Ryanair 
continues to grow traffic and load factors strongly in many European markets. These falling yields were 
exacerbated by the sharp decline in Sterling following the Brexit vote. Ryanair responded to this weaker 
environment by continuing to improve our "Always Getting Better" (AGB) customer experience, cutting costs, and 
stimulating demand through lower fares which has seen load factors jump to record levels."
Total operating revenues from continuing operations for the third-quarter quarter grew 1% to 1.35 billion euros from 
1.33 billion euros last year.
The company expects to continue to grow strongly in continental Europe in 2017 with more new bases and routes 
still to be added.
The company said its outlook for the remainder of fiscal year 2017 is cautious. With less than 2 months of the year 
to go, and no Easter in March, the company expects the fourth-quarter yields to decline by as much as -15%. It will 
carry over 119 million customers in fiscal year 2017, and full year ex-fuel unit costs should fall by about 4%.
Accordingly. the company maintained full year profit guidance in a range of 1.30 billion euros to 1.35 billion euros, 
but this guidance heavily depends on the absence of any unforeseen security events affecting close in bookings. 
Looking out into fiscal year 2018, the company is still finalising budget but it seems clear that pricing will continue to 
be challenging and it will respond to these adverse market conditions with strong traffic growth and lower unit costs.
The company expects load factor active/price passive strategy will win market share from all higher cost EU 
competitor airlines, while it continue to open new markets.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2017 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Ryanair Q3 Profit Down; Backs FY Profit Guidance
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
FTSE 100 Turns Positive After Weak Start
FTSE 100 Turns Positive After Weak Start
RTT News (United States)
February 6, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 275 words
Body
(RTTNews) - U.K. shares rose in choppy trade Monday and the pound tumbled as investors pondered what 
Trump's presidency means for the global economy.
U.K. Prime Minister Theresa is facing a bitter fight for Brexit this week, with as many as 27 lawmakers in her ruling 
Conservative Party ready to back moves to water down the historic EU Bill, media reports suggest.
The day's economic reports proved a mixed bag, with a gauge of Eurozone investor sentiment falling slightly in 
February, matching expectations, while German factory orders rose the most in two and a half years in December, 
more than making up for a steep decline in the previous month.
Closer home, U.K. car registrations increased at the start of the year, driven by higher demand from individual 
consumers, industry data showed. Car sales advanced an annual 2.9 percent to 174,564 units in January, the 
highest level since 2005.
The benchmark FTSE 100 was up 17 points or 0.24 percent at 7,205 in opening deals, erasing early losses.
Randgold Resources jumped 4 percent. The gold miner hiked its 2016 dividend by over 50 percent after reporting a 
76 percent jump in fourth-quarter net profit.
Barclays advanced 1.5 percent after reports that it is embarking on a major back office overhaul.
Shares of Ryanair Holdings fell nearly 2 percent. The Irish no-frills airline reported an 8 percent drop in third-quarter 
profit but said it's "cautious" about meeting full-year targets.
Airline easyJet was little changed after reporting its passenger traffic and load factor figures for January.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2017 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
RTT News (United States)
February 6, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 903 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets fluctuated between small gains and losses early Monday, but turned 
definitively lower in the afternoon. Economic data proved a mixed bag at the start of the new trading week, with 
Eurozone Sentix Investor Confidence Index declining slightly in February, while German factory orders rose the 
most in two and a half years in December.
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi testified before the European Parliament Monday. Draghi stated 
that the recent resilience shown by the euro area economy in the face of several negative shocks suggests it is on 
the right track, but it still requires monetary policy stimulus to bring inflation to the target in a sustainable way.
"Our December decisions strike a balance between our growing confidence that the euro area's economic 
prospects are firming up, and - at the same time - the lack of a clear sign of sustained convergence of inflation rates 
towards the desired level," Draghi said while addressing lawmakers in the European Parliament in Brussels.
Business leaders said the decision to leave the EU had a negative impact on their business since June, Ipsos Mori 
survey showed Monday.
The annual Ipsos MORI Captains of Industry study found that 58 percent felt negative impact of Brexit, while 31 
percent said the Brexit had made no difference to the business situation.
"However, it is not all doom and gloom," Ben Page, CEO of Ipsos MORI, said. "32 percent of respondents said they 
think their business will start to feel the positive effects of leaving the EU in five years' time."
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index weakened by 0.60 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone 
bluechip stocks decreased 1.06 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major U.K. 
companies, lost 0.40 percent.
The DAX of Germany dropped 1.22 percent and the CAC 40 of France fell 0.98 percent. The FTSE 100 of the U.K. 
declined 0.22 percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished lower by 0.24 percent.
In Frankfurt, fish distributor, Deutsche See, sued Volkswagen over the automaker's emission cheating scandal, 
sending its stock down 2.58 percent.
Deutsche Bank fell 1.70 percent. The country's largest lender has apologized in full-page German newspaper ads 
for "serious errors" that cost the lender billions of euros.
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
In Paris, Total SA dipped 0.10 percent as oil prices edged higher on a weaker dollar and amid fears of new U.S. 
sanctions against Iran.
In London, Randgold Resources jumped 4.15 percent as the gold miner hiked its 2016 dividend by over 50 percent 
after reporting a 76 percent jump in fourth-quarter net profit.
Shares of Ryanair Holdings fell 4.20 percent after the Irish no-frills airline issued cautious outlook for the remainder 
of the year after reporting an 8 percent drop in third-quarter profit.
Airline easyJet dropped 0.80 percent after reporting its passenger traffic and load factor figures for January.
Barclays declined 0.63 percent after reports that it is embarking on a major back office overhaul.
UniCredit dropped 6.86 percent in Milan after it signed a deal Saturday with trade unions to cut 3,900 jobs as part of 
a business plan unveiled in December by its new chief executive.
Eurozone investor confidence dropped less-than-expected in February as financial experts' assessment of the 
current situation was the strongest since mid-2011 though their expectations were hurt, mainly by the impact of the 
actions of the Trump administration, results of a monthly survey by Sentix showed Monday.
The investor confidence index for euro area fell to 17.4 from 18.2 in January, which was the highest score since 
August 2015, figures from the think tank showed. Economists had forecast a weaker reading of 16.5.
Germany's factory orders expanded at the fastest pace in more than two years in December on robust domestic 
demand, provisional data from Destatis showed Monday. Factory orders climbed 5.2 percent on a monthly basis in 
December, in contrast to a 3.6 percent fall in November, which was revised from 2.5 percent.
The latest monthly growth was the biggest since July 2014, when the rate was 6.6 percent and also faster than the 
expected 0.5 percent increase.
German construction firms registered slower growth in January but were more optimistic about the coming year, 
survey data from IHS Markit showed Monday. The construction Purchasing Managers' Index fell to 52.0 in January 
from December's nine-month high of 54.9. This was the lowest score since last August.
Germany's real earnings increased at a stronger pace in 2016, data from Destatis showed Monday. The index of 
real earnings increased 1.8 percent in 2016 but slower than the 2.4 percent growth registered in 2015. In the same 
period, inflation was 0.5 percent.
China's private sector expanded at the weakest pace in four months in January on slower increases in 
manufacturing and services, private survey results from IHS Markit showed Monday. The Caixin composite output 
index fell to 52.2 in January from December's 45-month high of 53.5.
The services sector in China continued to expand in January, albeit at a slower pace, the latest survey from Caixin 
showed on Monday with a PMI score of 53.1.
That's down from 53.4 in December, although it remains well above the boom-or-bust line of 50 that separates 
expansion from contraction.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2017 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
European Markets Turned Lower After Draghi Comments
End of Document
Ryanair profit falls amid pressure to lower fares
Ryanair profit falls amid pressure to lower fares
Associated Press Financial Wire
February 6, 2017 Monday 12:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 135 words
Dateline: LONDON 
Body
LONDON (AP) - Ryanair, Europe's biggest budget airline, saw its profits drop 8 percent in the final three months of 
2016 as it lowered fares and was hurt by the British pound's drop.
The Dublin-based company said Monday that its net income fell to 94.7 million euros ($102 million) from 102.7 
million euros a year earlier. The average fare was down 17 percent to 33 euros while traffic rose 16 percent to 29 
million passengers.
CEO Michael O'Leary said "our fares this winter have fallen sharply as Ryanair continues to grow traffic and load 
factors strongly in many European markets."
European airlines are adding capacity, intensifying competition. Ryanair expects uncertainty over Britain's decision 
to leave the European Union, instability in markets like Turkey and the pound's drop to keep depressing prices.
Load-Date: February 7, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Q3 Results Miss Expectations - ADRs Off 2% Pre-Bell
Ryanair Q3 Results Miss Expectations - ADRs Off 2% Pre-Bell
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 6, 2017 Monday 7:25 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 197 words
Body
 American depository shares of Ryanair (RYAAY) were sliding 2% pre-market Monday after the low-cost airline 
reported Q3 results which fell short of expectations compiled by Capital IQ. 
For Q3 ended Dec. 31, net profits were EUR95 million ($102 million), down from EUR103 million a year earlier and 
missing the consensus for a profit of EUR98.7 million. 
Revenues rose 1% year-over-year to EUR1.35 billion but were shy of the EUR1.36 billion consensus. 
Looking ahead, the company continues to expect FY17 net profit of EUR1.3 billion to EUR1.35 billion, straddling the 
EUR1.34 billion average estimate. The airline warned that the outlook is heavily dependent on not having "any 
unforeseen security events affecting close in bookings."
In reference to the UK's decision to leave the European Union, Ryanair said there is still significant uncertainty on 
what it will entail, noting that this uncertainty will continue to represent a challenge for the remainder of FY17 and 
FY18. The company expects the British pound to remain volatile, and possibly see a slowdown in economic growth 
in the UK and Europe as it moves closer to Brexit. 
Price: 83.94, Change: -1.71, Percent Change: -2.00
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
End of Document
Segantii Capital Management Ltd Purchases Shares of 107,899 Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Segantii Capital Management Ltd Purchases Shares of 107,899 Ryanair 
Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
February 6, 2017 Monday 2:22 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 791 words
Byline: Tyrone Williams
Body
Feb 06, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Segantii Capital Management Ltd 
bought a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the third quarter, according to its 
most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The institutional investor bought 107,899 
shares of the company's stock, valued at approximately $7,790,000. Ryanair Holdings PLC makes up about 2.1% 
of Segantii Capital Management Ltd's holdings, making the stock its 9th largest position.  Other institutional 
investors also recently bought and sold shares of the company. Ameriprise Financial Inc. 
boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 8.3% in the third quarter. Ameriprise Financial Inc. now 
owns 1,214,073 shares of the company's stock valued at $91,050,000 after buying an additional 93,349 shares 
during the period. BlackRock Group LTD boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.9% in the 
third quarter. BlackRock Group LTD now owns 119,815 shares of the company's stock valued at $8,990,000 after 
buying an additional 2,200 shares during the period. Teachers Advisors LLC boosted its position in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC by 3.0% in the third quarter. Teachers Advisors LLC now owns 59,532 shares of the 
company's stock valued at $4,467,000 after buying an additional 1,742 shares during the period. BlackRock Fund 
Advisors boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.5% in the third quarter. BlackRock Fund 
Advisors now owns 661,722 shares of the company's stock valued at $49,649,000 after buying an additional 9,560 
shares during the period. Finally, BlackRock Investment Management LLC boosted its position in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC by 1.1% in the third quarter. BlackRock Investment Management LLC now owns 19,015 shares of the 
company's stock valued at $1,427,000 after buying an additional 200 shares during the period. Institutional 
investors and hedge funds own 42.27% of the company's stock. Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) opened at 85.65 on Monday. The stock has a market capitalization of $21.48 billion, a price-
to-earnings ratio of 15.93 and a beta of 0.72. The company has a 50-day moving average of $83.81 and a 200 day 
moving average of $77.40. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 12-month low of $66.09 and a 12-month high of $89.67. 
http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/02/06/segantii-capital-management-ltd-purchases-shares-of-107899-ryanair-
holdings-plc-ryaay.html.  Several equities analysts have recently weighed in on the stock. Barclays PLC reiterated a 
'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Tuesday, January 10th. Zacks Investment 
Research cut shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'hold' rating to a 'sell' rating in a research note on 
Wednesday, November 23rd. Beaufort Securities reiterated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a 
research note on Friday, October 21st. Canaccord Genuity assumed coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC 
in a research note on Thursday, January 26th. They issued a 'buy' rating on the stock. Finally, Berenberg Bank 
Segantii Capital Management Ltd Purchases Shares of 107,899 Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
assumed coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Friday, November 11th. They issued 
a 'buy' rating on the stock. One investment analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold 
rating and six have assigned a buy rating to the stock. The company has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and a 
consensus target price of $92.25. Ryanair Holdings PLC Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) 
is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline 
serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and 
Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air 
passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of 
beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to 
receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related 
companies 
with 
MarketBeat.com's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[3]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for February 6th 2017
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for February 6th 2017
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 6, 2017 Monday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 169 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Economic and financial data for Monday, February 6th 2017  ^   DATA RELEASES 
08:00 D:   Industrial New Orders 12/16 10:00 D:   Metro                                    Annual General Meeting 10:00 D:   
VDMA order intake 12/16 10:30 D:   Sentix-Economic Index 02/17 15:00 EU:  ECB\xB4s Draghi to speak in 
European Parliament, Brussels 15:45 EU:  ECB Monthly report 01/17 22:00 USA: 21st Century Fox                  
Q2  22:30 USA: Fed\xB4s Harker to speak about payment systems in San Diego  MORE DATA RELEASES WITH 
NO TIME SPECIFIED       IRL: Ryanair                                  Q3        J:   Toyota                                   Q3        J:   
Suzuki                                   Q3        USA: Hasbro                                   Q4\xB0  While all data were researched 
with the greatest care, dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH assumes no liability for the correctness of this 
information. All time designations are provided in CET.  Copyright dpa-AFX    
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair cautious over full year as third-quarter profit falls E Budget carrier Ryanair is expecting a sharp decline 
in fourth-quarter yields, although it is mai....
Ryanair cautious over full year as third-quarter profit falls;  E Budget carrier 
Ryanair is expecting a sharp decline in fourth-quarter yields, although it is 
maintaining its full-year forecast of a 1.3-1.35 billion profit.
Flight International
February 6, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 180 words
Body
Budget carrier Ryanair is expecting a sharp decline in fourth-quarter yields, although it is maintaining its full-year 
forecast of a 1.3-1.35 billion profit.
It gave the forecast as it disclosed an 8% fall in third-quarter after-tax profit to 95 million.
The airline says it is adopting a “cautious” outlook to the final quarter, given that the 2017 Easter holiday falls 
outside of the financial year.
Ryanair adds that it expects pricing will “continue to be challenging” over 2017-18.
The airline says the decline in its third-quarter results, over the three months to 31 December 2016, follows a 17% 
fall in average fares. Revenues increased by only 1% to just over 1.3 billion.
Chief executive Michael O’Leary says the decline in yields has been “exacerbated” by the drop in the UK currency 
following last June’s referendum on the UK’s withdrawal from the European Union.
But he points out that, while fares have fallen over the winter, the airline’s load factor rose to 95% over the quarter. 
Ryanair managed to cut unit costs by 6%, excluding fuel, and unit costs overall fell by 12%.
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
BEST OF THEBROKERS To appear in Best of the Brokers, email your research to notes@cityam.com
BEST OF THEBROKERS To appear in Best of the Brokers, email your 
research to notes@cityam.com
City A.M.
February 6, 2017 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 18
Length: 133 words
Body
Catering giant Compass Group has served up organic growth of 2.8 per cent in the first quarter. That's why analysts 
at Canaccord Genuity have nudged up Compass Group's target price by 6.5 per cent to 1,460p. However, they've 
reduced their recommendation to "hold" from "buy" as the catering firm's share price is up 22 per cent on a 12-
month view and within 10 per cent of the analysts' target price.
RYANAIR Ryanair is off to a flying start this year with January passenger volumes rising by a whopping 17 per cent. 
According to Canaccord Genuity, January was the 27th month of consecutive year-on-year double-digit passenger 
volume growth for the low-cost carrier. This stellar performance has left the analysts "impressed", leading them to 
retain their "buy" recommendation for the budget airline.
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Construction and retail data could swing the FTSE
Construction and retail data could swing the FTSE
City A.M.
February 6, 2017 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 18
Length: 167 words
Body
AFTER last week's bustle of Brexit-related news, this week the market will be waiting for economic data and a slew 
of major earnings announcements.
British Retail Consortium retail figures may show muted sales for January on Wednesday, while FTSE 
housebuilding stocks will be waiting with bated breath for construction output data on Friday - it's widely expected to 
have risen month-onmonth in December.
Today, Randgold Resources will put out full-year earnings, while Ryanair will announce quarterly figures. 
Tomorrow, BP will update the market - its profits are expected to halve. On Wednesday, miner Rio Tinto and oil and 
gas firm Tullow Oil will release full-year results, while GLAXOSMITHKLINE, Dunelm Group and Hargreaves 
Lansdown will have quarterly figures out.
On Thursday, Thomas Cook and Ashmore Group will have quarterly results, while Enterprise Inns and Tate & Lyle 
will put out trading updates, as will Greene King on Friday.
FTSE 7,188.30 7,200 3 Feb 7,150 7,100 30 Jan 31 Jan 1 Feb 2 Feb 3 Feb
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
HBK Investments L P Has $890,000 Stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
HBK Investments L P Has $890,000 Stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
February 4, 2017 Saturday 1:56 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 731 words
Byline: Mark Dietrich
Body
Feb 04, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  HBK Investments L P 
reduced its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 66.4% during the third quarter, Holdings 
Channel[1] reports. The fund owned 11,865 shares of the company's stock after selling 23,435 shares during the 
period. HBK Investments L P's holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were worth $890,000 as of its most recent filing 
with the SEC. 
 Several other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently modified their holdings of the 
company. Smithfield Trust Co. boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. 
Smithfield Trust Co. now owns 1,616 shares of the company's stock valued at $113,000 after buying an additional 
15 shares during the last quarter. Quantbot Technologies LP boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC 
by 236.6% in the third quarter. Quantbot Technologies LP now owns 1,656 shares of the company's stock valued at 
$124,000 after buying an additional 1,164 shares during the last quarter. Westpac Banking Corp acquired a new 
stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the second quarter valued at approximately $186,000. Brinker 
Capital Inc. acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the second quarter valued at 
approximately $201,000. Finally, Bremer Trust National Association acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC during the third quarter valued at approximately $202,000. 42.39% of the stock is currently owned by 
hedge funds and other institutional investors. Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded up 0.82% during 
trading on Friday, reaching $85.65. 204,057 shares of the company's stock were exchanged. The firm has a market 
capitalization of $21.48 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 15.93 and a beta of 0.72. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 52 
week low of $66.09 and a 52 week high of $89.67. The stock has a 50-day moving average price of $83.81 and a 
200 day moving average price of $77.40.   http://www.watchlistnews.com/hbk-investments-l-p-has-890000-stake-in-
ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay/1098753.html.  Several analysts have commented on the stock. Zacks Investment 
Research upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on 
Tuesday, December 13th. Barclays PLC restated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research 
note on Tuesday, January 10th. Beaufort Securities restated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a 
research note on Friday, October 21st. Canaccord Genuity assumed coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC 
in a research note on Thursday, January 26th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. Finally, BNP Paribas 
restated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Thursday, October 20th. One 
investment analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have given a hold rating and six have given a buy 
rating to the company's stock. The company currently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and an average price target 
of $92.25. About Ryanair Holdings PLC Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair 
HBK Investments L P Has $890,000 Stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point 
routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various 
ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to 
see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and 
insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily 
- Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for 
Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter[4]. [ 1]:       
     http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 4, 2017
End of Document
Poland's progress; Wine
Poland's progress; Wine
Financial Times (London, England)
February 4, 2017 Saturday
Europe Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - LIFE & ARTS; Pg. 19
Length: 1084 words
Byline: Jancis Robinson
Body
For most of my adult life, the only European country I had never visited was Poland. Unlike most other Europeans, 
Poles neither made serious wine nor seemed to me to have much interest in drinking it. The only intersection of 
wine and Poland I was aware of was the 19th-century migration of vine-growing Silesians to the Barossa Valley in 
South Australia in response to religious persecution.
But recently and rapidly, Poland has been developing a wine culture. Sales of still wine there have increased by 
almost 60 per cent in the past 10 years. When I finally went there last autumn, I was told that Poland had more wine 
bars than Germany. My hosts were not perhaps the most objective. I was invited to Krakow (where, incidentally, 
possibly coincidentally, the wine-buying decisions for British Airways are now made) by Czas Vina, one of two 
glossy consumer wine magazines that are now published in Poland - the same number as in Britain, and one more 
than in France.
I'm sure I was far from the only first-time British visitor to Poland to be struck by how prosperous both town and 
country looked - more so than many parts of the UK. Presumably, wine drinking is a reflection of that prosperity, 
and of all those Ryanair miles travelled by Poles today.
While there I met members of the association of Polish women in wine, Kobiety I Wino, and have never come 
across a more active group of wine professionals. But, partly thanks to climate change, Poland is now producing as 
well as consuming wine. In the early Middle Ages, Poland was an active vine grower but when cooler temperatures 
set in, beer and spirits took over. Although some Silesians in the far south-west of what is now Poland (then 
Poland's progress; Wine
Prussia) made wine for their own consumption, Poles were principally wine importers, particularly of Hungarian 
wines and especially of the dessert wine Tokaji.
From the 16th to the 18th century, Hungarian wine was regarded as more attractively sweet, spicy and robust than 
wimpy French wine and many a merchant, especially in Krakow in the south of the country, would import Tokaji in 
barrel, improving it, in their view, by ageing it (and heaven knows what else). Even today, a Polish saying has it that 
there is no wine above Hungarian wine.
With the partition of Poland at the end of the 18th century, trade with Hungary eased and French wine became so 
fashionable that some Polish aristocrats sold off their Tokaji, including wines that were then more than a century 
old. But the Warsaw merchant Fukier amassed the world's finest collection of Tokaji, with wines going back to 1606. 
Unfortunately Fukier, like so many, went bankrupt in the 1920s, and what remained of the collection was looted by 
Germans and then Russians so that the precise whereabouts of the bottles is a mystery even to my Tokaji-
specialist wine historian colleague Hugh Johnson. Fukier today is a well known restaurant and location of some of 
the many wine events that take place in modern Poland.
I was a little surprised to spend my first few hours in Poland 150 metres below ground in a salt mine. But it is one of 
the jewels of the flourishing Krakow tourist industry, and is a Unesco world heritage site, no less. The vast church 
hollowed out of the salt mine is a popular location for weddings. My tour had a wine bent that included a first-class 
lunch served by top- quality waiting staff in a salty grotto after an aperitif of Philipponat's Clos des Goisses single-
vineyard champagne. The wines with lunch were provided, and personally presented, by Agnieszka Wyrobek-
Rousseau, whose Wieliczka vineyards are nearby. Hers are the only Polish plantings to rely entirely on the 
European vinifera vine species. The Chardonnay was entirely recognisable and a first-crop Merlot - reaching 12 per 
cent alcohol with no alcohol-boosting sugar added to the fermentation vat - even creditable.
Most of the vines planted in the harshly continental climate of Poland are hybrids such as Solaris, Rondo and 
especially Regent (regarded as usefully compatible with French oak ageing), which ripen early enough to escape 
the predations of a Polish winter. But the red burgundy grape Pinot Noir - plants from the Geisenheim wine 
research institute in Germany - is becoming popular. There are already more than 150 officially registered 
commercial vineyards with about 200 hectares of vines between them (the comparable figures for England and 
Wales in 2013 were 537 and 1,571 respectively).
But wine is now so popular with Poles and there are so many new plantings not yet in production that some 
observers reckon it will not be long before the Polish vignoble totals 1,000 hectares.
Wyrobek-Rousseau is one of only two trained oenologists in Poland but I also met Roman Mysliwiec, who planted 
vines as many as 35 years ago. He was one of the first dozen or so Polish vintners of the modern era and now 
advises many new entrants into the vinous fray.
Most plantings are in the south of the country but there is one vineyard on the northern coast where the relatively 
maritime climate helps extend the growing season. Polish vintners enjoyed their balmiest season yet in 2015 but 
there were some nasty shocks last year.
Even the most optimistic Polish wine lovers admit that probably only about a million consumers out of the country's 
population of more than 38 million are responsible for the boom. But they certainly could not be keener. The global 
educator, the Wine & Spirit Education Trust, works with four wine schools in Poland. I enjoyed my time there and, in 
the 16 Polish wines I had a chance to taste, saw great sincerity in combating the severity of the climate.
Polish cider is also enjoying a boom, since Russia, which once imported 70 per cent of Poland's apple production, 
no longer does. Drinking Polish cider is apparently seen as a patriotically anti-Russian activity, just like drinking 
Georgian wine.
More columns at ft.com/robinson
Remarkable Polish wines
Poland's progress; Wine
  Palac Mierzecin Riesling 2015
 This did taste like Riesling.
  Turnau Riesling 2015
 Off-dry, recognisably Riesling again. Large estate in the north-west part-owned by a well-known singer.
  Srebrna Góra, Inspira Volcano 2013
 Fiery, Hungarian-inspired white made from the German hybrid Hibernal, most common in the Czech Republic.
  Milosz Pinot Noir 2014
 Surprisingly burgundian, made by a journalist turned poet.
  Wieliczka Merlot 2015
 Very respectable varietal from the only vinifera-only producer.
  Golesz, Fermomer 2011
 Not really a 2011, but a fortified blend of 2009 and 2013!
Load-Date: February 3, 2017
End of Document
Poland 's progress Food and Drink - Wine
Poland's progress; Food and Drink - Wine
Financial Times (London, England)
February 4, 2017 Saturday
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT MAGAZINE; Pg. 37
Length: 1108 words
Byline: Jancis Robinson
Highlight: 'Poland has been developing a wine culture. Sales of still wine have increased by almost 60 per cent in 
the past 10 years'
Body
For most of my adult life, the only European country I had never visited was Poland. Unlike most other Europeans, 
Poles neither made serious wine nor seemed to me to have much interest in drinking it. The only intersection of 
wine and Poland I was aware of was the 19th-century migration of vine-growing Silesians to the Barossa Valley in 
South Australia in response to religious persecution.
But recently and rapidly, Poland has been developing a wine culture. Sales of still wine there have increased by 
almost 60 per cent in the past 10 years. When I finally went there last autumn, I was told that Poland had more wine 
bars than Germany. My hosts were not perhaps the most objective. I was invited to Krakow (where, incidentally, 
possibly coincidentally, the wine-buying decisions for British Airways are now made) by Czas Vina, one of two 
glossy consumer wine magazines that are now published in Poland - the same number as in Britain, and one more 
than in France.
I'm sure I was far from the only first-time British visitor to Poland to be struck by how prosperous both town and 
country looked - more so than many parts of the UK. Presumably, wine drinking is a reflection of that prosperity, 
and of all those Ryanair miles travelled by Poles today.
While there, I met members of the association of Polish women in wine, Kobiety I Wino, and have never come 
across a more active group of wine professionals. But, partly thanks to climate change, Poland is now producing as 
well as consuming wine. In the early Middle Ages, Poland was an active vine grower but when cooler temperatures 
Poland 's progress Food and Drink - Wine
set in, beer and spirits took over. Although some Silesians in the far south-west of what is now Poland (then 
Prussia) made wine for their own consumption, Poles were principally wine importers, particularly of Hungarian 
wines and especially of the famous dessert wine Tokaji.
From the 16th to the 18th century, Hungarian wine was regarded as more attractively sweet, spicy and robust than 
wimpy French wine and many a merchant, especially in Krakow in the south of the country, would import Tokaji in 
barrel, improving it, in their view, by ageing it (and heaven knows what else). Even today, a Polish saying has it that 
there is no wine above Hungarian wine.
With the partition of Poland at the end of the 18th century, trade with Hungary eased and French wine became so 
fashionable that some Polish aristocrats sold off their Tokaji, including wines that were then more than a century 
old. But the Warsaw merchant Fukier amassed the world's finest collection of Tokaji, with wines going back to 1606. 
Unfortunately Fukier, like so many, went bankrupt in the 1920s, and what remained of the collection was looted by 
Germans and then Russians so that the precise whereabouts of the bottles is a mystery even to my Tokaji-
specialist wine historian colleague Hugh Johnson. Fukier today is a well known restaurant and location of some of 
the many wine events that take place in modern Poland.
I was a little surprised to spend my first few hours in Poland 150m below ground in a salt mine. But it is one of the 
jewels of the flourishing Krakow tourist industry, and is a Unesco world heritage site, no less. The vast church 
hollowed out of the salt mine is a popular location for weddings. My tour had a wine bent that included a first-class 
lunch served by top- quality waiting staff in a salty grotto after an aperitif of Philipponat's Clos des Goisses single-
vineyard champagne. The wines with lunch were provided, and personally presented, by Agnieszka Wyrobek-
Rousseau, whose Wieliczka vineyards are nearby. Hers are the only Polish plantings to rely entirely on the 
European vinifera vine species. The Chardonnay was entirely recognisable and a first-crop Merlot - reaching 12per 
cent alcohol with no alcohol-boosting sugar added to the fermentation vat - even creditable.
Most of the vines planted in the harshly continental climate of Poland are hybrids such as Solaris, Rondo and 
especially Regent (regarded as usefully compatible with French oak ageing), which ripen early enough to escape 
the predations of a Polish winter. But the red burgundy grape Pinot Noir - plants from the Geisenheim wine 
research institute in Germany - is becoming popular. There are already more than 150 officially registered 
commercial vineyards with about 200ha of vines between them (the comparable figures for England and Wales in 
2013 were 537 and 1,571 respectively).
But wine is now so popular with Poles and there are so many new plantings not yet in production that some 
observers reckon it will not be long before the Polish vignoble totals 1,000 hectares.
Wyrobek-Rousseau is one of only two trained oenologists in Poland but I also met Roman Mysliwiec, who planted 
vines as many as 35years ago. He was one of the first dozen or so Polish vintners of the modern era and now 
advises many new entrants into the vinous fray.
Most plantings are in the south of the country but there is one vineyard on the northern coast where the relatively 
maritime climate helps extend the growing season. Polish vintners enjoyed their balmiest season yet in 2015 but 
there were some nasty shocks last year.
Even the most optimistic Polish wine lovers admit that probably only about a million consumers out of the country's 
population of more than 38 million are responsible for the boom. But they certainly could not be keener. The global 
educator, the Wine & Spirit Education Trust, works with four wine schools in Poland. I enjoyed my time there and, in 
the 16 Polish wines I had a chance to taste, saw great sincerity in combating the severity of the climate.
Polish cider, incidentally, is also enjoying a boom, since Russia, which once imported 70per cent of Poland's apple 
production, no longer does. Drinking Polish cider is apparently seen as a patriotically anti-Russian activity, just like 
drinking Georgian wine.
Tasting notes at JancisRobinson.com
Poland 's progress Food and Drink - Wine
Remarkable polish wines
- Palac Mierzecin
Riesling 2015 This did taste like Riesling.
- Turnau Riesling 2015
Off-dry, recognisably Riesling again. Large estate in the north-west part-owned by a well-known singer.
- Srebrna Gora, Inspira Volcano 2013
Fiery, Hungarian-inspired white made from the German hybrid Hibernal, most common in the Czech Republic.
- Milosz Pinot Noir 2014
Surprisingly burgundian, made by a journalist turned poet.
- Wieliczka Merlot 2015
Very respectable varietal from the only vinifera-only producer.
- Golesz, Feromer 2011
Not really a 2011, but a fortified blend of 2009 and 2013!
The Association of Polish Women in Wine, Kobiety I Wino, has bottled its very own 2015, a blend of wines made by 
its extremely active members
Load-Date: February 3, 2017
End of Document
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 3, 2017 Friday 12:10 PM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 802 words
Body
 The European markets traded in the green for the majority of Friday's session and a choppy day of trading with 
modest gains. Banks were among the best performing stocks at the end of the week. Reports that US President 
Trump will take action to reduce regulations on the banking industry drove the sector higher. Investor sentiment 
also received a boost from today's stronger than expected US jobs report.
Employment in the US increased by more than anticipated in the month of January, according to a report released 
by the Labor Department on Friday. The Labor Department said non-farm payroll employment jumped by 227,000 
jobs in January after climbing by a revised 157,000 jobs in December.
Economists had expected an increase of about 175,000 jobs compared to the addition of 156,000 jobs originally 
reported for the previous month.
Despite the stronger than expected job growth, the unemployment rate inched up to 4.8% in January from 4.7% in 
December. The rate had been expected to remain unchanged.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index advanced 0.71%. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks 
increased 0.60%, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major UK companies, added 0.98%.
The DAX of Germany climbed 0.20% and the CAC 40 of France rose 0.65%. The FTSE 100 of the UK gained 
0.67% and the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 0.90%.
In Frankfurt, retail giant Metro fell 3.09% after its fiscal first-quarter profit fell 64% to 200 million euros, hurt by 
currency fluctuations.
Deutsche Bank climbed 3.63% and Commerzbank added 0.60%.
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
In Paris, BNP Paribas gained 1.46% and Credit Agricole advanced 1.03%. Societe Generale also finished higher by 
0.42%.
In London, ITV increased 1.99% on a brokerage upgrade.
Homeserve dipped 0.33%. The residential repair and improvements firm has acquired stakes in two tradesman 
checking sites for a total of 37 million pounds.
Beazley soared 6.44% as the risk insurance and reinsurance provider lifted dividend after reporting a 3% increase 
in full-year pretax profit.
Budget airline Ryanair Holdings gained 0.68% after reporting increases in traffic and load factor in January.
Barclays increased 3.39% and Royal Bank of Scotland rose 2.70%. Syngenta finished lower by 0.47% in Zurich on 
a report that EU regulators are likely to clear its USD43 deal with ChemChina.
Skanska jumped 5.49% in Stockholm after reporting a rise in Q4 profit, helped by stronger-than-expected 
performance at all its property development businesses.
Banco Popular sank 7.43% in Madrid after reporting a massive annual loss, hit by extraordinary provisions and 
additional charges to clean up its balance sheet.
Intesa Sanpaolo rose 2.66% in Milan after the retail bank denied it was mulling an all-share offer for insurer 
Generali.
Eurozone retail sales dropped unexpectedly in December on food and auto fuel sales, figures from Eurostat 
revealed Friday. Retail sales fell 0.3% month-on-month in December, confounding expectations for an increase of 
0.3%. Nonetheless, the pace of decline slowed from a revised -0.6% in November.
The Eurozone economy made a strong start to 2017 with output growth maintained at December's five-and-a-half 
year high, final data from IHS Markit showed Friday. The composite output index held steady at 54.4 in January and 
slightly above the earlier flash estimate of 54.3. The indicator signaled expansion in each of the past 43 months.
UK service sector growth eased more-than-expected at the start of the year amid the slower output growth and 
higher costs, despite strong business expectations, survey data from IHS Markit and the Chartered Institute of 
Procurement and Supply showed Friday.
The CIPS Purchasing Managers' Index for the services sector dropped to 54.5 from 56.2 in December. Economists 
had forecast a score of 55.8.
While the Institute for Supply Management released a report on Friday showing that activity in the US service sector 
saw continued growth in the month of January, the pace of growth in the sector slowed slightly compared to the 
previous month.
The ISM said its non-manufacturing index edged down to 56.5 in January from a revised 56.6 in December, 
although a reading above 50 still indicates growth in the service sector. Economists had expected the service sector 
index to dip to 57.0 from the 57.2 originally reported for the previous month.
Reflecting a sharp increase in orders for non-durable goods, the Commerce Department released a report on 
Friday showing a bigger than expected rebound in new orders for US manufactured goods in the month of 
December.
The Commerce Department said factory orders surged up by 1.3% in December after tumbling by a revised 2.3% in 
November. Economists had expected factory orders to increase by 0.9% compared to the 2.4% slump originally 
reported for the previous month.
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
Load-Date: February 4, 2017
End of Document
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
MT Newswires Live Briefs PRO
February 3, 2017 Friday 12:10 PM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 802 words
Body
 The European markets traded in the green for the majority of Friday's session and a choppy day of trading with 
modest gains. Banks were among the best performing stocks at the end of the week. Reports that US President 
Trump will take action to reduce regulations on the banking industry drove the sector higher. Investor sentiment 
also received a boost from today's stronger than expected US jobs report.
Employment in the US increased by more than anticipated in the month of January, according to a report released 
by the Labor Department on Friday. The Labor Department said non-farm payroll employment jumped by 227,000 
jobs in January after climbing by a revised 157,000 jobs in December.
Economists had expected an increase of about 175,000 jobs compared to the addition of 156,000 jobs originally 
reported for the previous month.
Despite the stronger than expected job growth, the unemployment rate inched up to 4.8% in January from 4.7% in 
December. The rate had been expected to remain unchanged.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index advanced 0.71%. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks 
increased 0.60%, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major UK companies, added 0.98%.
The DAX of Germany climbed 0.20% and the CAC 40 of France rose 0.65%. The FTSE 100 of the UK gained 
0.67% and the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 0.90%.
In Frankfurt, retail giant Metro fell 3.09% after its fiscal first-quarter profit fell 64% to 200 million euros, hurt by 
currency fluctuations.
Deutsche Bank climbed 3.63% and Commerzbank added 0.60%.
In Paris, BNP Paribas gained 1.46% and Credit Agricole advanced 1.03%. Societe Generale also finished higher by 
0.42%.
In London, ITV increased 1.99% on a brokerage upgrade.
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
Homeserve dipped 0.33%. The residential repair and improvements firm has acquired stakes in two tradesman 
checking sites for a total of 37 million pounds.
Beazley soared 6.44% as the risk insurance and reinsurance provider lifted dividend after reporting a 3% increase 
in full-year pretax profit.
Budget airline Ryanair Holdings gained 0.68% after reporting increases in traffic and load factor in January.
Barclays increased 3.39% and Royal Bank of Scotland rose 2.70%. Syngenta finished lower by 0.47% in Zurich on 
a report that EU regulators are likely to clear its USD43 deal with ChemChina.
Skanska jumped 5.49% in Stockholm after reporting a rise in Q4 profit, helped by stronger-than-expected 
performance at all its property development businesses.
Banco Popular sank 7.43% in Madrid after reporting a massive annual loss, hit by extraordinary provisions and 
additional charges to clean up its balance sheet.
Intesa Sanpaolo rose 2.66% in Milan after the retail bank denied it was mulling an all-share offer for insurer 
Generali.
Eurozone retail sales dropped unexpectedly in December on food and auto fuel sales, figures from Eurostat 
revealed Friday. Retail sales fell 0.3% month-on-month in December, confounding expectations for an increase of 
0.3%. Nonetheless, the pace of decline slowed from a revised -0.6% in November.
The Eurozone economy made a strong start to 2017 with output growth maintained at December's five-and-a-half 
year high, final data from IHS Markit showed Friday. The composite output index held steady at 54.4 in January and 
slightly above the earlier flash estimate of 54.3. The indicator signaled expansion in each of the past 43 months.
UK service sector growth eased more-than-expected at the start of the year amid the slower output growth and 
higher costs, despite strong business expectations, survey data from IHS Markit and the Chartered Institute of 
Procurement and Supply showed Friday.
The CIPS Purchasing Managers' Index for the services sector dropped to 54.5 from 56.2 in December. Economists 
had forecast a score of 55.8.
While the Institute for Supply Management released a report on Friday showing that activity in the US service sector 
saw continued growth in the month of January, the pace of growth in the sector slowed slightly compared to the 
previous month.
The ISM said its non-manufacturing index edged down to 56.5 in January from a revised 56.6 in December, 
although a reading above 50 still indicates growth in the service sector. Economists had expected the service sector 
index to dip to 57.0 from the 57.2 originally reported for the previous month.
Reflecting a sharp increase in orders for non-durable goods, the Commerce Department released a report on 
Friday showing a bigger than expected rebound in new orders for US manufactured goods in the month of 
December.
The Commerce Department said factory orders surged up by 1.3% in December after tumbling by a revised 2.3% in 
November. Economists had expected factory orders to increase by 0.9% compared to the 2.4% slump originally 
reported for the previous month.
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
End of Document
FTSE 100 Rises Led By Banks
FTSE 100 Rises Led By Banks
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 3, 2017 Friday 10:56 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 352 words
Body
       VIENNA (dpa-AFX) - U.K. shares rose in early trade Friday, as banks gained ground after reports that U.S. 
President Donald Trump plans to sign an executive order later today to water down the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial 
regulatory framework put into effect in response to the 2008 financial crisis.  The benchmark FTSE 100 was up 32 
points or 0.45 percent at 7,173 in late opening deals after rising half a percent the previous day on the back of a 
drop in the pound.  Banks such as Lloyds Banking Group, Barclays and The Royal Bank of Scotland climbed 1-2 
percent. 
 Homeserve shares advanced 1 percent. The residential repair and improvements firm has acquired stakes in two 
tradesman checking sites for a total of 37 million pounds.  Beazley soared 9 percent as the risk insurance and 
reinsurance provider lifted dividend after reporting a 3 percent increase in full-year pretax profit.  Budget airline 
Ryanair Holdings advanced 1.5 percent after reporting increases in traffic and load factor in January.   ITV shares 
rallied 2 percent on a brokerage upgrade.  Miners Anglo American, Antofagasta, BHP Billiton and Glencore fell 3-4 
percent after a private gauge of Chinese manufacturing activity missed forecasts in January and the country's 
central bank raised short-term interest rates, in a further sign of policy tightening.   In economic releases, the 
Eurozone economy made a strong start to 2017 with output growth maintained at December's five-and-a-half year 
high, final data from IHS Markit showed. The composite output index held steady at 54.4 in January but stood 
above the earlier flash estimate of 54.3.   Separately, industry data showed that activity in the U.K. services sector 
eased more than expected in January.  The Markit/CIPS services purchasing managers' index (PMI) dropped to 
54.5 from a reading of 56.2 in December.  The U.S. Labor Department's closely-watched report will be out later 
today, with economists expecting employment to increase by 175,000 jobs in January after an increase of 156,000 
jobs in December. The unemployment rate is expected to hold at 4.7 percent.      
Load-Date: February 3, 2017
End of Document
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
February 3, 2017 Friday 6:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2017 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 857 words
Body
       VIENNA (dpa-AFX) - The European markets traded in the green for the majority of Friday's session and a 
choppy day of trading with modest gains. Banks were among the best performing stocks at the end of the week. 
Reports that U.S. President Trump will take action to reduce regulations on the banking industry drove the sector 
higher. Investor sentiment also received a boost from today's stronger than expected U.S. jobs report. 
 Employment in the U.S. increased by more than anticipated in the month of January, according to a report released 
by the Labor Department on Friday. The Labor Department said non-farm payroll employment jumped by 227,000 
jobs in January after climbing by a revised 157,000 jobs in December.  Economists had expected an increase of 
about 175,000 jobs compared to the addition of 156,000 jobs originally reported for the previous month.  Despite 
the stronger than expected job growth, the unemployment rate inched up to 4.8 percent in January from 4.7 percent 
in December. The rate had been expected to remain unchanged.  The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index 
advanced 0.71 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks increased 0.60 percent, while the 
Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major U.K. companies, added 0.98 percent.  The DAX of Germany 
climbed 0.20 percent and the CAC 40 of France rose 0.65 percent. The FTSE 100 of the U.K. gained 0.67 percent 
and the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 0.90 percent.  In Frankfurt, retail giant Metro fell 3.09 percent after its 
fiscal first-quarter profit fell 64 percent to 200 million euros, hurt by currency fluctuations.  Deutsche Bank climbed 
3.63 percent and Commerzbank added 0.60 percent.  In Paris, BNP Paribas gained 1.46 percent and Credit 
Agricole advanced 1.03 percent. Societe Generale also finished higher by 0.42 percent.   In London, ITV increased 
1.99 percent on a brokerage upgrade.  Homeserve dipped 0.33 percent. The residential repair and improvements 
firm has acquired stakes in two tradesman checking sites for a total of 37 million pounds.  Beazley soared 6.44 
percent as the risk insurance and reinsurance provider lifted dividend after reporting a 3 percent increase in full-
year pretax profit.  Budget airline Ryanair Holdings gained 0.68 percent after reporting increases in traffic and load 
factor in January.  Barclays increased 3.39 percent and Royal Bank of Scotland rose 2.70 percent.   Syngenta 
finished lower by 0.47 percent in Zurich on a report that EU regulators are likely to clear its $43 deal with 
ChemChina.  Skanska jumped 5.49 percent in Stockholm after reporting a rise in Q4 profit, helped by stronger-than-
expected performance at all its property development businesses.  Banco Popular sank 7.43 percent in Madrid after 
reporting a massive annual loss, hit by extraordinary provisions and additional charges to clean up its balance 
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
sheet.  Intesa Sanpaolo rose 2.66 percent in Milan after the retail bank denied it was mulling an all-share offer for 
insurer Generali.  Eurozone retail sales dropped unexpectedly in December on food and auto fuel sales, figures 
from Eurostat revealed Friday. Retail sales fell 0.3 percent month-on-month in December, confounding expectations 
for an increase of 0.3 percent. Nonetheless, the pace of decline slowed from a revised -0.6 percent in November.  
The Eurozone economy made a strong start to 2017 with output growth maintained at December's five-and-a-half 
year high, final data from IHS Markit showed Friday. The composite output index held steady at 54.4 in January and 
slightly above the earlier flash estimate of 54.3. The indicator signaled expansion in each of the past 43 months.  
UK service sector growth eased more-than-expected at the start of the year amid the slower output growth and 
higher costs, despite strong business expectations, survey data from IHS Markit and the Chartered Institute of 
Procurement and Supply showed Friday.   The CIPS Purchasing Managers' Index for the services sector dropped 
to 54.5 from 56.2 in December. Economists had forecast a score of 55.8.  While the Institute for Supply 
Management released a report on Friday showing that activity in the U.S. service sector saw continued growth in 
the month of January, the pace of growth in the sector slowed slightly compared to the previous month.  The ISM 
said its non-manufacturing index edged down to 56.5 in January from a revised 56.6 in December, although a 
reading above 50 still indicates growth in the service sector. Economists had expected the service sector index to 
dip to 57.0 from the 57.2 originally reported for the previous month.  Reflecting a sharp increase in orders for non-
durable goods, the Commerce Department released a report on Friday showing a bigger than expected rebound in 
new orders for U.S. manufactured goods in the month of December.  The Commerce Department said factory 
orders surged up by 1.3 percent in December after tumbling by a revised 2.3 percent in November. Economists had 
expected factory orders to increase by 0.9 percent compared to the 2.4 percent slump originally reported for the 
previous month.      
Load-Date: February 3, 2017
End of Document
FTSE 100 Rises Led By Banks
FTSE 100 Rises Led By Banks
RTT News (United States)
February 3, 2017 Friday
Copyright 2017 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 362 words
Body
(RTTNews) - U.K. shares rose in early trade Friday, as banks gained ground after reports that U.S. President 
Donald Trump plans to sign an executive order later today to water down the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial regulatory 
framework put into effect in response to the 2008 financial crisis.
The benchmark FTSE 100 was up 32 points or 0.45 percent at 7,173 in late opening deals after rising half a percent 
the previous day on the back of a drop in the pound.
Banks such as Lloyds Banking Group, Barclays and The Royal Bank of Scotland climbed 1-2 percent.
Homeserve shares advanced 1 percent. The residential repair and improvements firm has acquired stakes in two 
tradesman checking sites for a total of 37 million pounds.
Beazley soared 9 percent as the risk insurance and reinsurance provider lifted dividend after reporting a 3 percent 
increase in full-year pretax profit.
Budget airline Ryanair Holdings advanced 1.5 percent after reporting increases in traffic and load factor in January.
ITV shares rallied 2 percent on a brokerage upgrade.
Miners Anglo American, Antofagasta, BHP Billiton and Glencore fell 3-4 percent after a private gauge of Chinese 
manufacturing activity missed forecasts in January and the country's central bank raised short-term interest rates, in 
a further sign of policy tightening.
In economic releases, the Eurozone economy made a strong start to 2017 with output growth maintained at 
December's five-and-a-half year high, final data from IHS Markit showed. The composite output index held steady 
at 54.4 in January but stood above the earlier flash estimate of 54.3.
Separately, industry data showed that activity in the U.K. services sector eased more than expected in January. 
The Markit/CIPS services purchasing managers' index (PMI) dropped to 54.5 from a reading of 56.2 in December.
The U.S. Labor Department's closely-watched report will be out later today, with economists expecting employment 
to increase by 175,000 jobs in January after an increase of 156,000 jobs in December. The unemployment rate is 
expected to hold at 4.7 percent.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
FTSE 100 Rises Led By Banks
Copyright(c) 2017 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 3, 2017
End of Document
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
RTT News (United States)
February 3, 2017 Friday
Copyright 2017 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 863 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets traded in the green for the majority of Friday's session and a choppy day of 
trading with modest gains. Banks were among the best performing stocks at the end of the week. Reports that U.S. 
President Trump will take action to reduce regulations on the banking industry drove the sector higher. Investor 
sentiment also received a boost from today's stronger than expected U.S. jobs report.
Employment in the U.S. increased by more than anticipated in the month of January, according to a report released 
by the Labor Department on Friday. The Labor Department said non-farm payroll employment jumped by 227,000 
jobs in January after climbing by a revised 157,000 jobs in December.
Economists had expected an increase of about 175,000 jobs compared to the addition of 156,000 jobs originally 
reported for the previous month.
Despite the stronger than expected job growth, the unemployment rate inched up to 4.8 percent in January from 4.7 
percent in December. The rate had been expected to remain unchanged.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index advanced 0.71 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip 
stocks increased 0.60 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major U.K. companies, 
added 0.98 percent.
The DAX of Germany climbed 0.20 percent and the CAC 40 of France rose 0.65 percent. The FTSE 100 of the U.K. 
gained 0.67 percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 0.90 percent.
In Frankfurt, retail giant Metro fell 3.09 percent after its fiscal first-quarter profit fell 64 percent to 200 million euros, 
hurt by currency fluctuations.
Deutsche Bank climbed 3.63 percent and Commerzbank added 0.60 percent.
In Paris, BNP Paribas gained 1.46 percent and Credit Agricole advanced 1.03 percent. Societe Generale also 
finished higher by 0.42 percent.
In London, ITV increased 1.99 percent on a brokerage upgrade.
Homeserve dipped 0.33 percent. The residential repair and improvements firm has acquired stakes in two 
tradesman checking sites for a total of 37 million pounds.
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
Beazley soared 6.44 percent as the risk insurance and reinsurance provider lifted dividend after reporting a 3 
percent increase in full-year pretax profit.
Budget airline Ryanair Holdings gained 0.68 percent after reporting increases in traffic and load factor in January.
Barclays increased 3.39 percent and Royal Bank of Scotland rose 2.70 percent. Syngenta finished lower by 0.47 
percent in Zurich on a report that EU regulators are likely to clear its $43 deal with ChemChina.
Skanska jumped 5.49 percent in Stockholm after reporting a rise in Q4 profit, helped by stronger-than-expected 
performance at all its property development businesses.
Banco Popular sank 7.43 percent in Madrid after reporting a massive annual loss, hit by extraordinary provisions 
and additional charges to clean up its balance sheet.
Intesa Sanpaolo rose 2.66 percent in Milan after the retail bank denied it was mulling an all-share offer for insurer 
Generali.
Eurozone retail sales dropped unexpectedly in December on food and auto fuel sales, figures from Eurostat 
revealed Friday. Retail sales fell 0.3 percent month-on-month in December, confounding expectations for an 
increase of 0.3 percent. Nonetheless, the pace of decline slowed from a revised -0.6 percent in November.
The Eurozone economy made a strong start to 2017 with output growth maintained at December's five-and-a-half 
year high, final data from IHS Markit showed Friday. The composite output index held steady at 54.4 in January and 
slightly above the earlier flash estimate of 54.3. The indicator signaled expansion in each of the past 43 months.
UK service sector growth eased more-than-expected at the start of the year amid the slower output growth and 
higher costs, despite strong business expectations, survey data from IHS Markit and the Chartered Institute of 
Procurement and Supply showed Friday.
The CIPS Purchasing Managers' Index for the services sector dropped to 54.5 from 56.2 in December. Economists 
had forecast a score of 55.8.
While the Institute for Supply Management released a report on Friday showing that activity in the U.S. service 
sector saw continued growth in the month of January, the pace of growth in the sector slowed slightly compared to 
the previous month.
The ISM said its non-manufacturing index edged down to 56.5 in January from a revised 56.6 in December, 
although a reading above 50 still indicates growth in the service sector. Economists had expected the service sector 
index to dip to 57.0 from the 57.2 originally reported for the previous month.
Reflecting a sharp increase in orders for non-durable goods, the Commerce Department released a report on 
Friday showing a bigger than expected rebound in new orders for U.S. manufactured goods in the month of 
December.
The Commerce Department said factory orders surged up by 1.3 percent in December after tumbling by a revised 
2.3 percent in November. Economists had expected factory orders to increase by 0.9 percent compared to the 2.4 
percent slump originally reported for the previous month.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2017 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: February 3, 2017
European Markets Finished Higher As Bank Stocks Outperform
End of Document
Ryanair January Traffic Increase 17% to 8.77 Mln Customers
Ryanair January Traffic Increase 17% to 8.77 Mln Customers
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 3, 2017 Friday 5:21 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 44 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) said Friday that January traffic rose 17% to 8.77 million customers while the load factor 
rose by 2 percentage points to 90.
The rolling annual traffic to January rose 15% to 118.3 million customers.
Price: 84.95, Change: , Percent Change: 
Load-Date: February 4, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair January traffic up
Ryanair January traffic up
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
February 3, 2017 Friday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Food
Length: 121 words
Highlight: Ryanair has reported that traffic grew by 17% to 8.77 million customers in January 2017, compared to 
7.50 million in January 2016.
Body
Load factor for the month of January 2017 was 90%, an increase of 2 percentage points, compared to 88% in 
January 2016.Ryanair&#39;s Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair&#39;s January traffic grew by 17% to 8.77m customers, 
while our load factor jumped 2% points to 90%, on the back of lower fares and the continuing success of our 
"Always Getting Better" customer experience programme."Customers can look forward to even lower fares when 
they make advance bookings for summer 2017, so there&#39;s never been a better time to book a low fare flight on 
Ryanair and we urge all customers who wish to book their summer 2017 holidays to do so now on the Ryanair.com 
website or mobile app, where they can avail of the lowest fares in Europe."
Load-Date: February 9, 2017
End of Document
IN THE KNOW: Barclays Optimistic On Wizz Air Despite Price Target Cut
IN THE KNOW: Barclays Optimistic On Wizz Air Despite Price Target Cut
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 2, 2017 Thursday 9:16 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 429 words
Body
 Barclays lowered its price target on Wizz Air after the low-cost airline trimmed its guidance for full-year profit on 
Wednesday, but said it still thinks the stock offers good long-term value.
The Central and Eastern European-focused airline said pretax profit in its third quarter, covering the three months 
ended December 31, more than doubled to EUR33.1 million from EUR16.2 million the year before, as revenue grew 
to EUR341.1 million from EUR310.5 million.
However, Wizz Air trimmed its forecast for full-year net profit as it warned that lower fuel prices were continuing to 
feed through to lower airfares in 2017 and because of  "unusually severe" weather conditions disrupting its winter 
operations.
Wizz Air trimmed its net profit guidance to a range of EUR225 million to EUR235 million, down from its previous 
guidance of a range of EUR245 million to EUR255 million. In the previous financial year, full year net profit 
amounted to EUR183 million.
As a result, Barclays reduced its full-year earnings per share forecasts by 7% and 10% for financial 2017 and 
financial 2018, respectively, but praised Wizz Air for "rightly" prioritising long-term strategic gains over short-term 
profitability through plans to continue increasing capacity.
Barclays now forecasts fourth-quarter revenue per available seat kilometre to fall by 9% year-on-year, down on its 
prior forecast of a 6.5% decline, although it noted that pricing trends leading to this decrease are "perfectly 
understandable" given "aggressive competitor expansion".
"Arguably, Wizz could have preserved its profit guidance this winter simply by reducing its growth rate. However, 
with the company's margins among the very best in Europe, and ROIC well above its cost of capital, management's 
focus is understandably longer term, believing it is strategically important to lead the pace of growth to win territory 
from weaker legacy incumbents, and perhaps also to keep Ryanair at bay in the region," Barclays said.
IN THE KNOW: Barclays Optimistic On Wizz Air Despite Price Target Cut
This does mean, however, that margins will take some "self-inflicted" pain in the near term, the bank said, leading to 
a challenging financial 2018 year. Due to this. Barclays thinks earnings will decline slightly year-on-year, before 
recovering from financial 2019.
"We continue to think the stock offers good long term value, but in the nearer term, we expect the lack of earnings 
growth to weigh on the share price," Barclays said.
Barclays cut its price target to GBP17.60 from GBP19.00, and maintained its Equal Weight rating.
Shares in Wizz Air were trading down 4.1% at 1,549.55 pence on Thursday.
Load-Date: February 3, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair adds 15 routes to Israel
Ryanair adds 15 routes to Israel
Business World (Digest)
February 02, 2017 Thursday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 246 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair is adding 15 new routes between Europe and Israel to cater for Europeans seeking a milder climate in the 
winter, the Irish low-cost carrier said on Wednesday.
Europe's largest airline entered the Israeli market in late 2015 with seasonal flights between October and March 
from Budapest, Bratislava, Krakow in Poland and Kaunas in Lithuania to Ovda Airport, which is north of the Red 
Sea resort Eilat.
Ryanair said these routes, which came after Israel signed an Open Skies agreement with the European Union in 
2012, were "performing well". The deal has led to a 30 percent increase in flights to Tel Aviv the past three years.
From October 2017, Ryanair will add twice weekly flights to Ovda Airport from Baden Baden, Berlin, Brussels, 
Frankfurt, Milan and Polish cities Warsaw, Gdansk and Poznan.
It will also add seven new routes to Ben Gurion International Airport near Tel Aviv from Baden Baden, Gdansk, 
Milan, Poznan, Krakow and Wroclaw in Poland and Paphos in Cyprus.
David O'Brien, Ryanair's chief commercial officer, said the airline was working with Israel's Tourism Ministry to 
"establish Eilat as a viable alternative to competing sunshine destinations in Europe."
Tourism Minister Yariv Levin said the significant expansion of Ryanair should cut the cost of fares to and from 
Israel, while "expressing great confidence in Israeli tourism."
The ministry offers subsidies to encourage low cost airlines to fly to Israel. (Reuters)
Ryanair adds 15 routes to Israel
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: February 10, 2017
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Lower as Miners Contract
European ADRs Edge Lower as Miners Contract
MT Newswires Live Briefs
February 1, 2017 Wednesday 11:07 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 249 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.3% lower at 122.39 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Wednesday morning. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Nabriva Therapeutics (NBRV),  an Austria-based clinical-stage 
biopharmaceutical company, 3.8% lower, followed by Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA), down by 2.6% and 
Luxxottica (LUX), a manufacturer of eyewear, 2.2% lower. Telecom Italia - Savings (TI.A), a telecommunications 
company, was down by 2.1%. 
In the UK, Akari Therapeutics (AKTX), a development-stage biopharmaceutical company, was 6.3% lower, followed 
by gold miner Randgold Resources (GOLD), down by 1.5% and drinks-maker Diageo (DEO), 0.8% lower. Royal 
Dutch Shell - A Shares (RDS.A), an oil and gas production company,  was also 0.8% lower. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by semiconductor manufacturer STMicroelectronics - New York Shares 
(STM), up by 2.3%, followed by ArcelorMittal (MT),  a Luxembourg steelmaker, also 2.3% higher and financial 
services provider Aegon - New York Shares (AEG), 1.6% higher. Advanced Accelerator Applications (AAAP), a 
radiopharmaceutical company, was also 1.6% higher. 
And, in the UK, Adaptimmune Therapeutics (ADAP), a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, was 4.4% higher, 
followed by Pearson (PSO), an education company, 3.5% higher and low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY), 2.1% 
higher. CRH (CRH), a building materials company, was 1.9% higher.
Price: 13.61, Change: +0.37, Percent Change: +2.79
Load-Date: March 28, 2017
European ADRs Edge Lower as Miners Contract
End of Document
ANALYSIS: Why Norwegian is setting the airline agenda in 2017 Norwegian has so far defied scepticism about 
its branding, the scale of its aircraft orders and it....
ANALYSIS: Why Norwegian is setting the airline agenda in 2017; Norwegian 
has so far defied scepticism about its branding, the scale of its aircraft 
orders and its embrace of the low-cost long-haul model, to become one of 
the most influential airlines operating today.
Flight International
February 1, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 2257 words
Body
Norwegian has so far defied scepticism about its branding, the scale of its aircraft orders and its embrace of the 
low-cost long-haul model, to become one of the most influential airlines operating today.
Plenty remains at stake for the carrier, not least with rising fuel prices, but Norwegian is at the heart of many of the 
airline industry's biggest themes.
Many, both rivals and potential copycats, will be watching its progress closely during 2017.
That is already evident with the announcement from SAS that it plans to obtain a new air operator's certificate in 
Ireland and establish bases in London and Spain. This follows the December 2016 approval, after much wrangling 
and delays, of Norwegian's controversial application to operate US flights through its Irish subsidiary.
Likewise, network carriers are already taking steps to response as Norwegian has become the first European 
operator to establish itself in the low-cost long-haul market across the Atlantic.
And while Norwegian's transatlantic growth has been driven thus far by its Boeing 787s, it will be the first to avail of 
the economic performance offered by the US manufacturer's re-engined 737 Max narrowbody on transatlantic 
routes. It plans to launch services with its first example this summer. Indeed, it may yet be the first to deploy the 
type at all.
Additionally, Norwegian is in the final stages of a much-talked-about interline agreement with low-cost rival Ryanair 
– which would be first such deal for the Irish airline, if it is confirmed before a similar agreement being worked on 
with compatriot carrier Aer Lingus. Ryanair's commercial chief David O'Brien in January said it was working on the 
technical elements of a deal with Norwegian.
ANALYSIS: Why Norwegian is setting the airline agenda in 2017 Norwegian has so far defied scepticism about 
its branding, the scale of its aircraft orders and it....
EXPANDING MODEL
Norwegian had already unveiled its intention to go long-haul by ordering 787s before its head-turning 
announcement in early 2012 that it planned to purchase 222 new aircraft – predominantly a mix of re-engined 
Airbus and Boeing narrowbodies. Thus was the scope of its ambitions signalled.
And while many sceptics believed it would be a stuck in a fight to the death with SAS for Nordic supremacy, 
Norwegian has steadily expanded its influence beyond its natural home markets. FlightGlobal schedules show that 
it is, for example, now the third-biggest airline – and largest overseas operator – at London Gatwick in terms of seat 
capacity, serving around 25 destinations.
Those Gatwick flights includes eight transatlantic destinations – with more to follow this year. And it is in the low-
cost long-haul sector – aided by benign oil prices – that the airline has so far defied the sceptics. It now operates 
more than 30 routes from five points in Europe to the USA and Puerto Rico – often from secondary airports.
Norwegian transatlantic routes: February 2017
Source: FlightMaps Analytics
And it is Norwegian, together with the likes of WestJet from the North American side, which is prompting a rethink 
from the transatlantic incumbents.
British Airways has responded to those threats. Last year it relaunched flights from Gatwick to New York JFK, and it 
has said that in 2017 it will begin flights from Gatwick to Fort Lauderdale and Oakland.
"I've always pointed out that our response to Norwegian will be a competitive response," said Willie Walsh, boss of 
BA parent IAG, at a Washington event in November. "We've watched with interest what they've done. We've been 
fascinated to see the consumer reaction to what Norwegian has done with the product, and it's clear to us that 
there's a good market there, so we're responding."
The airline is to introduce 10-abreast seating on 25 777s, increasing the economy-class cabin from 216 to 252 
seats. While trimming its business-class cabin from 40 to 32 seats, it will also double the premium-economy cabin 
to 48 seats.
"We're now seeing consumers who are prepared to get on board a transatlantic flight without a guaranteed seat," 
says Walsh. "These are things that 10 years ago we would have said were impossible."
A further battleground will also open up in Barcelona. Norwegian will begin its first transatlantic operations from the 
Spanish airport this summer, but IAG in December outlined its own plan to launch long-haul operations out of 
Vueling's Barcelona stronghold in June. IAG has not detailed the plan – which could be linked to its low-cost 
operations Iberia Express or Vueling – beyond describing it as a "next generation" operation, potentially serving 
destinations in North and South America as well as Asia.
Source: Flight Ascend Consultancy
US carriers have likewise reacted to long-haul LCCs. Their response has been revenue-focused: Delta Air Lines 
began testing its no-frills basic economy fare in 50 international markets last summer and is planning to roll it out as 
part of a larger cabin segmentation initiative by 2018.
However, they too are evaluating their product in response to the influx of Norwegian and other carriers. Delta 
president Glen Hauenstein said in October that it was looking at the "entire service offering and ensure that we're 
supplying what the market wants to buy".
Hauenstein noted: "The transatlantic has some of the most unique competitive dynamics."
ANALYSIS: Why Norwegian is setting the airline agenda in 2017 Norwegian has so far defied scepticism about 
its branding, the scale of its aircraft orders and it....
American Airlines and United Airlines plan to roll out their own no-frills fares this year.
TAKING IT TO THE MAX
Norwegian will also hope to create fresh options when it debuts the Max on transatlantic routes as early as June 
this year, potentially as launch operator of the re-engined 737 – it is currently vying for that status with Southwest 
Airlines.
"You have the same seat pitch with the new seats on the Max – just about – as we have on the Dreamliner," said 
Norwegian chief executive Bjorn Kjos last year. "You need a little bit more if you fly 13-14 hours, that's obvious, but 
six to seven hours, that's no problem."
Kjos notes that the Max can be operated at a "really, really low cost, even lower cost than the [787 Dreamliner] per 
seat". He points out that Norwegian already operates relatively long flights with narrowbodies, such as the Oslo-
Dubai route, successfully.
The carrier plans to begin flights to New England from points in Ireland and the UK a month after it takes delivery of 
its first Max 8 in May. It is scheduled to take delivery of six Max 8s this year, and will base at least four in the Boston 
and New York areas.
Norwegian is thus in line to be not only a pioneer of the new type, but at the forefront of single-aisle transatlantic 
operations. The likes of Aer Lingus and JetBlue have indicated interest in using the next-generation narrowbodies 
for transatlantic operations while Azores Airlines last autumn ordered a pair of Airbus A321neos and is acquiring 
four examples of the same aircraft's long-range variant as part of a fleet modernisation programme.
The Portuguese carrier is to operate the two A321neos on transatlantic routes until 2019, when it will exchange 
them for four long-range versions of the A321neo. Icelandic low-cost operation Wow Air, with its much shorter stage 
lengths to the USA, is meanwhile set to add its first A320neos this spring.
OVERSEAS MODE
In developing its transatlantic operations, Norwegian has also found itself at the centre of another key industry 
issue. Its application to operate US routes through an Irish subsidiary prompted calls to block the move from US 
majors and, in particular, unions, ostensibly concerned that the move was a way of circumventing labour rules – 
and costs. This led to lengthy deadlock.
Three years after Norwegian Air International's application for a foreign air carrier permit, US regulators approved it 
in the last days of the Obama administration in December. The decision means Irish-based NAI can launch low-cost 
transatlantic service to the USA. Norwegian itself already operates long-haul US flights, but says NAI will be able to 
utilise EU traffic rights.
"Regardless of our appreciation of the public policy arguments raised by opponents, we have been advised that the 
law and our bilateral obligations leave us no avenue to reject this application," the US Department of Transportation 
noted in its final order.
Whether that is the end of the matter remains to be seen. Emboldened by the "America first" rhetoric of the new 
Trump administration, US unions have called on the White House to overturn the decision on NAI. That decision 
became effective on 29 January.
Assuming its approval remains intact, other carriers could react with moves of their own. Notably, Norwegian's local 
rival SAS has already done so. At the start of February SAS announced plans for a new AOC in Ireland and to 
establish bases in London and Spain, to cut costs and reinforce its position in the leisure market. These new 
operations will start in the winter of 2017-18.
ANALYSIS: Why Norwegian is setting the airline agenda in 2017 Norwegian has so far defied scepticism about 
its branding, the scale of its aircraft orders and it....
The company says they will "complement" its current services, but is taking the step to ensure it has the "same 
preconditions" as other market participants, and to reduce differential costs. While airports are not specified, 
London and Spain are both markets in which Norwegian is present.
LEASING MOVES
Since doing its bit to inflate the backlogs at Boeing and Airbus, the airline has sought to acquire the flexibility to 
scale its capacity such that it matches demand. Norwegian's efforts in this direction have put it in the vanguard of 
yet another industry trend: like AirAsia and Lion Air, it now has its own leasing arm. Arctic Aviation Assets in 
December took delivery of the first of the 70 A320neos Norwegian has on order. It is leasing the Neo, plus a further 
11, to Hong Kong Express.
In what could be construed either as damning dismissal or as backhanded compliment, leasing-industry luminary 
Steven Udvar-Hazy was last month moved to dismiss the emergence of airline-related players in the sector as "a 
fad from 2014 that has died down". Speaking at the Airline Economics Growth Frontiers conference in Dublin, the 
Air Lease executive chairman declared: "Airlines are better at running airlines and we are better at leasing."
Udvar-Hazy believes the new entrants will struggle to access funding, and that airlines will prove reluctant to lease 
from a competitor.
One option could be to follow the path of AirAsia, which is hoping to close the sale of its leasing arm, Asia Aviation 
Capital, by the second quarter of the year.
For its part, Lion Group founder Rusdi Kirana told FlightGlobal in January that the key role of Transportation 
Partners was to aid the group with its aircraft financing, and it had no plans to sell it off, nor to expand its third-party 
leasing business.
"In my opinion, a leasing company is good when you have a variety of customers to minimise the risk on the 
portfolio. I don't think I want to do that. I just want to focus on my airlines, and let Transportation Partners support 
us," says Kirana.
ACQUISITION TARGET?
For all its influence, Norwegian has so far delivered relatively modest profits. Profits were up at the nine-month 
stage and another surplus this year would mean it has been in the black for seven of the last eight years. But 
cumulative net profits over the seven years to 2015 stand at $119 million.
"Norwegian's profits have been extremely seasonal since they started long-haul operation, much more so than 
IAG," notes Flight Ascend Consultancy's Richard Evans. "Ryanair is also highly seasonal, but with consistent small 
profits in the winter, against losses for Norwegian. SAS has made improvements, and has been profitable in the 
winter – helped by lower fuel prices.
"Norwegian Air International has the lowest fuel burn per RPK across the Atlantic, but appears to have structurally 
lower yields too, so could be vulnerable to higher fuel prices to some extent," he adds. "It is unclear what level of 
fuel hedging Norwegian has, and unit costs have been impacted by the fall in the Norwegian krone since 2014 too."
Snapshot: quarterly operating margins Norwegian and rivals
Source: Flight Ascend Consultancy
Yet investment in its market positioning, young fleet and early delivery slots make it regularly talked about as an 
attractive acquisition target – both in terms of removing a competitor and adding a carrier with strong assets. Flight 
Fleets Analyzer shows that Norwegian has a fleet of 68 aircraft today – including 11 Dreamliners. But it has a 
further 22 787s, over a hundred Boeing Max jets and almost 90 Airbus narrowbodies on order.
ANALYSIS: Why Norwegian is setting the airline agenda in 2017 Norwegian has so far defied scepticism about 
its branding, the scale of its aircraft orders and it....
Thus far European airline consolidation has been driven by a mix of strategic moves and distressed acquisitions. 
Current conditions point to there being more of the latter on the market this year, making any move for Norwegian 
likely to be a strategic one.
Norwegian could be a fit for UK operator EasyJet – which, in addition to having a large presence at Gatwick, is in 
the market for a European air operator's certificate. Ryanair has shown limited interest on growth by acquisition 
since buying Buzz, but Norwegian could be jump-start the long-haul operation of which Michael O'Leary has long 
talked. BA parent IAG, which already has one low-cost operation in Vueling and a remit to grow, perhaps could be 
tempted.
Asked of possible interest last year, in an interview with FlightGlobal, IAG boss Walsh said he was unclear where 
Norwegian was going. "It could well be that they are trying to make themselves attractive for an acquisition but 
Bjorn [Kjos] shows no evidence of slowing down or wanting to move out."
The airline's progress – and the key issues developing around it – will as 2017 develops likely make the endgame 
much clearer. But however it develops, Norwegian seems certain to remain an industry disruptor.
Load-Date: February 3, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair maintains 'cautious' outlook on weak pound
Ryanair maintains 'cautious' outlook on weak pound
AirFinance Journal
February 2017
Copyright 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 475 words
Byline: Laura Mueller
Body
Ryanair is maintaining a “cautious” outlook for 2017 due to a weaker pound and uncertainty surrounding the Brexit 
vote after fares and profits at Europe’s largest low-cost airlines fell during the quarter.
Ryanair’s third-quarter profit, after tax, decreased 8% to &euro;95 million ($102.2 million) for the three-months to 31 
December, and revenue grew 1% to &euro;1.34 billion. Traffic improved 16% to 29 million customers.
With less than two months of the year to go for the carrier, and no Easter in March, Ryanair expects fourth-quarter 
yields to decline by as much as (-15%),” warns Michael O’Leary, chief executive of the airline, in a third-quarter 
earnings statement.
Itis maintaining its full-year profit guidance in a range of &euro;1.30 to &euro;1.35 billion, but this guidance “heavily 
depends on the absence of any unforeseen security events affecting close in bookings”
O’Leary also warns of what “appears to be a hard Brexit”. “There is still significant uncertainty in relation to what 
exactly this will entail. This uncertainty will continue to represent a challenge for our business for the remainder of 
fiscal year 2017 and 2018,” he says.
As a result, O’Leary expects the UK pound to remain volatile “for some time”.
“We may see a slowdown in economic growth in both the UK and Europe as we move closer to Brexit,” he adds.
While there may be opportunities to expand at certain UK airports, Ryanair expects to grow at a slower pace than 
previously planned in the UK and will continue to switch capacity into other key markets around Europe.
O’Leary notes that Ryanair is hopeful that the UK will remain a member of Europe’s “open skies” system.
“Until the final outcome is known, however, we will continue to adapt to changing circumstances in the best interest 
of our customers, people and shareholders,” he says.
Falling fares
Ryanair’s fares have fallen sharply as it "continues to grow traffic and load factors strongly" in variousEuropean 
markets.
Ryanair maintains 'cautious' outlook on weak pound
Average fares in the third quarter were down 17% to &euro;33 compared with the year-earlier period, ahead of 
the13-15% drop that the carrier anticipated.
“These falling yields were exacerbated by the sharp decline in sterling following the Brexit vote. Ryanair responded 
to this weaker environment by continuing to improve our ‘Always Getting Better’ customer experience, cutting costs, 
and stimulating demand through lower fares which has seen load factors jump to record levels,” O’Leary says.
During the quarter, Ryanair notes non-fuel unit costs were down 6% as it took delivery of 10 new Boeing 737-800s.
Ryanair says its balance sheet remains strong and expects to have a modest net debt position at year-end.
Load-Date: February 27, 2017
End of Document
Strong dollar and protectionism to test aviation: AerCap
Strong dollar and protectionism to test aviation: AerCap
AirFinance Journal
February 2017
Copyright 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 341 words
Byline: Laura Mueller
Body
A strong US dollar and protectionist agendas by various governments will impact the aviation leasing sector and its 
airline customer base, according to AerCap’s chief.
Speaking on a fourth quarter earnings call, AerCap’s chief executive officer Aengus Kelly admitted that while “it is 
too early to tell if there will be protectionism around the world”, the move would “assure that customers pay an awful 
lot more for air travel”.
“It would really hurt the average guy in the street,” he adds.
The benefits of liberalisation of air travel have been “extraordinary boosts” for global consumers.
“It is cheaper now to fly anywhere in the world in absolute dollar terms than it was 20 years ago, even without 
adjusting for inflation," he says. "That is a tremendous boon for the customer and that is the result of liberalisation. 
That is what created Southwest, Ryanair, Emirates - all of these airlines have changed the face of air travel.”
Dollar lift
According to Kelly, the strong dollar “has happened” in some jurisdictions such as Mexico, he notes, adding: “We 
have seen the impact there and the airlines are, so far, coping with it.”
A strong dollar has “two sides to it”, he suggests. “If an airline is weak, this may push it over the edge, but we don't 
see anything unusual there in that level of activity beyond the norm with airline stress.”
Also, a solid greenback means airlines in certain jurisdictions are “much less likely” to buy aircraft, as a “large dollar 
expenditure may not be as financeable as it was” and therefore sales and leasebacks may be a “more attractive 
alternative”.
Separately, AerCap has increased its estimated capital expenditure this year to $6 billion from $5.5 billion due to 
five Airbus A320neo and two Airbus 350 deliveries being accelerated to 2017 from 2018.
AerCap says it expects a delay of three months, on average, for Pratt & Whitney PW1100G-powered A320s.
Strong dollar and protectionism to test aviation: AerCap
Load-Date: March 16, 2017
End of Document
Canaccord Genuity Begins Coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Canaccord Genuity Begins Coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
February 1, 2017 Wednesday 12:18 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 692 words
Byline: Stacy Sanders
Body
Feb 
01, 
2017( 
DailyPolitical: 
http://www.dailypolitical.com/ 
Delivered 
by 
Newstex) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.dailypolitical.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgCanaccord Genuity assumed coverage on shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) in a research report released on Thursday. The firm issued a buy rating 
on the stock. 
A number of other analysts have also issued reports on the company. BNP Paribas initiated coverage on Ryanair 
Holdings PLC in a report on Thursday, October 13th. They issued an outperform rating on the stock. Zacks 
Investment Research lowered Ryanair Holdings PLC from a buy rating to a hold rating in a report on Wednesday, 
October 12th. Bank of America Corporation lowered Ryanair Holdings PLC from a neutral rating to an underperform 
rating in a report on Tuesday, January 3rd. HSBC Holdings plc upgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a reduce 
rating to a hold rating in a research report on Wednesday, November 2nd. Finally, Beaufort Securities reiterated a 
buy rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Wednesday, October 5th. One analyst has 
rated the stock with a sell rating, five have assigned a hold rating and six have assigned a buy rating to the 
company's stock. Ryanair Holdings PLC presently has an average rating of Hold and an average target price of 
$92.25. Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) opened at 83.66 on Thursday. The company has a market 
capitalization of $20.99 billion, a P/E ratio of 15.62 and a beta of 0.82. The company's 50-day moving average price 
is $83.67 and its 200-day moving average price is $77.18. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 52 week low of $66.09 and 
a 52 week high of $89.67.  http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/02/01/canaccord-genuity-begins-coverage-on-ryanair-
holdings-plc-ryaay.html.   Several institutional investors have recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. William 
Blair Investment Management LLC increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 31.7% in the second quarter. 
William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 1,328,219 shares of the company's stock valued at 
$92,364,000 after buying an additional 319,347 shares during the period. Mirae Asset Global Investments Co. Ltd. 
bought a new position in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter valued at approximately $2,551,000. 
Standard Life Investments LTD increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 10.5% in the second quarter. 
Standard Life Investments LTD now owns 674,844 shares of the company's stock valued at $46,932,000 after 
buying an additional 63,909 shares during the period. Todd Asset Management LLC increased its position in 
Ryanair Holdings PLC by 8.2% in the second quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now owns 294,137 shares of 
the company's stock valued at $20,454,000 after buying an additional 22,361 shares during the period. Finally, 
Manning ...pier Advisors LLC increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 2.8% in the third quarter. Manning 
...pier Advisors LLC now owns 1,938,000 shares of the company's stock valued at $145,406,000 after buying an 
additional 52,262 shares during the period. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 42.39% of the company's 
Canaccord Genuity Begins Coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
stock.  About Ryanair Holdings PLC Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair 
Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point 
routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various 
ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Receive 
News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary 
of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with MarketBeat.com's 
FREE daily email newsletter[2]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: February 1, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair prices bond at 1.125%
Ryanair prices bond at 1.125%
AirFinance Journal
February 2017
Copyright 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 159 words
Byline: Olivier Bonnassies
Body
Irish low-cost carrier has priced its &euro;750 million ($803 million) Eurobond at a fixed coupon of 1.125%.
Ryanair confirmed earlier reports that it has issued a 6.5 year Eurobond that will be listed on the Irish Stock 
Exchange.
The joint bookrunners were BNP Paribas, Citigroup and Crédit Agricole.
Ryanair's Chief Financial Officer, Neil Sorahan said: "We are pleased to have accessed the low cost Eurobond 
markets again. This &euro;750m transaction was keenly priced at a fixed coupon of 1.125% per annum. This low 
cost finance will enable us to further reduce our aircraft ownership costs while continuing to offer the lowest fares 
and best customer service through our Always Getting Better programme as we grow to 200 million customers per 
annum by 2024."
The carrier last tapped the bond markets with a 1.125% &euro;850 million eight-year bond in March 2015 at mid-
swaps plus 67 basis points – setting a new record for the aviation industry.
Load-Date: February 27, 2017
End of Document
Citilink confirms CEO resignation
Citilink confirms CEO resignation
AirFinance Journal
February 2017
Copyright 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 114 words
Byline: Michael Allen
Body
Indonesian low-cost carrier and Garuda Indonesia subsidiary Citilink has confirmed the resignation of its chief 
executive officer (CEO) Albert Burhan.
According to local and international media reports, Burhan resigned two days after a December 2016 incident in 
which a reportedly drunk pilot was allowed to board a Citilink aircraft. Operational director Hadinoto Soedigno also 
resigned at the same time.
In his most recent interview with Airfinance Journal in March 2015, Burhan compared his airline’s rivalry with Lion 
Air in the Indonesian market to the rivalry between European LCCs Ryanair and EasyJet.
Burhanoriginally joined Citilink in February 2015, replacing Arif Wibowo.
Load-Date: February 20, 2017
End of Document
Jeju Air leases ex- Ryanair 737-800
Jeju Air leases ex-Ryanair 737-800
AirFinance Journal
February 2017
Copyright 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 164 words
Byline: Olivier Bonnassies
Body
Jeju Air has taken delivery of a Boeing 737-800 as part of a four-aircraft leasing agreement with SMBC Aviation 
Capital.
The unit, MSN 37541, is the second 737-800, confirms the lessor. The 737-800 was delivered new to Ryanair in 
September 2009, according to Airfinance Journal’s Fleet Tracker.
The first 737-800, MSN 35018, was delivered to the South Korean-based carrier in December 2016.
SMBC Aviation Capital now has a total of nine aircraft on lease to Jeju Air.
Last month Jeju Air signed an order for three 737-800s with Boeing.  "This acquisition is a major step in our growth 
strategy," said Ken Choi, Chief Executive Officer, Jeju Air. "We fully understand the benefits of owning and 
operating airplanes, which is what drove our decision to purchase these airplanes. We are confident that this order 
will enable Jeju Air to further strengthen our position as a leading low-cost carrier in Northeast Asia.    The carrier 
currently operates an all-Boeing fleet of 26 737-800s.
Load-Date: February 27, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launches â,¬750m Eurobond
Ryanair launches â,¬750m Eurobond
AirFinance Journal
February 2017
Copyright 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 87 words
Byline: Jack Dutton
Body
Ryanair has issued a 6.5-year bond worth &euro;750m ($803 million), according to a Bloomberg new issue report.
The bond matures on 15 August 2023 and is expected to price later on 8 February.
The joint bookrunners at BNP Paribas, Citi and CA-CIB.
The latest offering is the carrier’s third bond sale. The airline was last in the market in March 2015, printing a 
1.125% &euro;850m eight-year bond at mid-swaps plus 67bps – setting a new record for the aviation industry.
The bond has been rated BBB+ by S&P and Fitch.
Load-Date: February 27, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair eyes EU expansion amid Brexit fears
Ryanair eyes EU expansion amid Brexit fears
Business World (Digest)
January 30, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 595 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair is in talks about providing connecting flights to AlItalia's long-haul services and has raised objections with 
German authorities about a Lufthansa-Air Berlin tie-up, as it tries to ease its expansion in continental Europe.
The Irish airline, Europe's largest by passenger numbers, is looking to add 11 million passengers in the year to 
March 2018 and has frozen expansion in top market Britain in the wake of its decision to leave the European Union.
But it is unlikely to look to acquisitions to fuel that growth due to inefficiencies at rivals and the fact most have 
Airbus fleets, rather than Boeing planes as used by Ryanair, CEO Michael O'Leary told Reuters in an interview.
Ryanair is currently in talks with AlItalia about providing feeder flights to its long-haul hubs in a deal that could help 
the Italian flag carrier curb losses on short-haul flights.
AlItalia is undergoing restructuring amid uncertainty around major shareholder Etihad, which this week said it would 
review its European investment strategy following the departure of its chief executive James Hogan.
"We can help them by offering them cheap feed, low-cost feed into their hubs ... but that means taking out aircraft, 
people, and that's very difficult politically in Italy," O'Leary said. "We are still talking to them."
 
FEEDER FLIGHTS
Ryanair, which exclusively operates short-haul point-to-point services, is hoping to pilot a system of feeding long-
haul flights in the coming months.
Ryanair eyes EU expansion amid Brexit fears
O'Leary said he hoped such plans with Norwegian Air Shuttle and Aer Lingus could start in May. The integration of 
their booking systems has delayed the signing of deals, he said.
Ryanair is offering long-haul carriers the ability to book its seats for resale at the same prices offered to customers 
on its own website. The long-haul carriers would take full responsibility for missed connections, 
though Ryanair would pay fines under EU rules for flights over three hours late, he said.
In addition to Italy, Ryanair is targeting Germany, Europe's second-largest aviation market after Britain, and O'Leary 
said he planned to fight Lufthansa's recent agreement to lease 38 crewed planes from low-cost Air Berlin for six 
years.
O'Leary said the lease was a "fig leaf" to mask the acquisition of its main domestic competitor, which he said would 
raise their combined market share to 63 percent.
"It is nothing other than a takeover," O'Leary said.
Ryanair has submitted its concerns to Germany's competition authority, which said on Wednesday it would make a 
decision by the end of the month on whether to review the deal.
"They have been very receptive," O'Leary said.
 
OVERCAPACITY
Overcapacity in the short-haul market will continue to force fares lower in Europe in the coming year, but the rate 
may slow from a high single digit percentage drop to a low-single digit one, O'Leary said, while adding there were 
many variables.
"The outcome for fares depends on what happens on Brexit and economic confidence in UK and Europe, what 
happens to oil, and unforeseen security events," he said.
Ryanair, which is due to release results for the three months ending December, its fiscal third quarter, on Feb. 6, 
will continue to return cash to shareholders so long as profits continue to grow, he added.
"As long as profitability continues to rise from 1.25 billion (euros) last year, in line with traffic, ... I see no reason why 
share buy backs shouldn’t continue, absent unforeseen shocks," O'Leary said.
Ryanair may also tap bond markets again if rates remain low, he added. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
E German regulator clears Air Berlin - Lufthansa wet-lease deal Germany ’s competition regulator has given the 
green light for Lufthansa 's plan to wet-lease 38....
 E German regulator clears Air Berlin-Lufthansa wet-lease deal; Germany’s 
competition regulator has given the green light for Lufthansa's plan to wet-
lease 38 Airbus A320-family jets from Air Berlin.
Flight International
January 30, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 368 words
Body
Germany’s competition regulator has given the green light for Lufthansa's plan to wet-lease 38 Airbus A320-family 
jets from Air Berlin.
In 2016, two airlines revealed a plan to transfer a total of 33 A320s and A319s to Lufthansa’s budget arm 
Eurowings, and another five A320s to group subsidiary Austrian Airlines from this year as part of Air Berlin's 
restructuring.
The Bundeskartellamt says the case involved "complex legal questions and raised issues that required 
clarification”, and notes that several competitors of Lufthansa submitted comments opposing the wet-lease 
agreement.
Ryanair commercial chief David O'Brien argued earlier this month that the pact will “block the market” and that the 
budget carrier will challenge the deal on grounds that it may breach EU competition rules.
The Bundeskartellamt admits that the wet-lease deal “naturally” enables Lufthansa’s to expand its business. But the 
federal authority concludes that Lufthansa’s “potential expansion is not sufficient to justify a prohibition of the 
agreement".
"The lease of aircraft from a competitor needs to be assessed differently than the takeover of the competitor itself," 
it argues.
The regulator’s president Andreas Mundt says: “The agreement does not relate to the routes served by the two air 
carriers. Lufthansa will not take over any of Air Berlin's slots. Nor will the lease of the aircraft affect the re-allocation 
of slots that have so far been used by Air Berlin.”
E German regulator clears Air Berlin - Lufthansa wet-lease deal Germany ’s competition regulator has given the 
green light for Lufthansa 's plan to wet-lease 38....
As part of an evaluation of extensive market data and talks with a large number of market players, the authority 
asserts that a “majority of customers and travel agents questioned did not express any serious competition 
concerns”.
However, the regulator adds that “on account of the results of the competition assessment, it could be left open 
whether the wet-lease agreement does in fact constitute a merger within the meaning of the German competition 
law.”
Air Berlin and Lufthansa agreed the deal with an initial term of six years.
A separate agreement between Air Berlin, its shareholder Etihad Airways and tour operator TUI to establish a new 
leisure carrier on the basis of Austrian-based Niki and TuiFly was not covered by the Bundeskartellamt’s probe.
Load-Date: January 30, 2017
End of Document
UK investors face forced share sales to retain airlines' licence to fly in the EU
UK investors face forced share sales to retain airlines' licence to fly in the 
EU
Financial Times (London, England)
January 30, 2017 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FRONT PAGE - COMPANIES & MARKETS; Pg. 15
Length: 337 words
Byline: Paul McClean in Brussels
Body
Some Ryanair and easyJet shareholders could be ordered to sell their stakes to EU nationals after Brexit if airlines 
are forced to use drastic legal powers in the scramble to comply with the bloc's foreign ownership rules.
When Britain leaves the union, the low-cost airlines would, under their current structure, breach a strict condition of 
their European licences and flying rights, which requires majority control and ownership by EU nationals.
Dublin-registered Ryanair is 60 per cent owned by EU-nationals, but this will fall to 40 per cent once UK 
shareholders are excluded. EasyJet is 84 per cent owned by EU nationals, but this will drop to 49 per cent after 
Brexit, -provided the shares of Sir Stelios -Haji-Ioannou - the founder, who is a dual UK and Cypriot national - are 
classed as EU-owned. Sir Stelios's shares are now classed as UK-owned and if this continues easyJet's shares will 
be just 16 per cent EU-owned.
Both Ryanair and easyJet have provisions to force investors to sell, should they fail to lift their shareholder base 
above the 50 per cent threshold. -Ryanair plans first to target shareholders who failed to fill out nationality forms 
within the required time, according to company documents.
Michael O'Leary , chief executive of Ryanair, has warned of "chaos in the -airline industry" after Brexit. "We'd no 
longer be a European airline with rights to fly anywhere," he told Fortune magazine after last June's referendum.
UK investors face forced share sales to retain airlines' licence to fly in the EU
IAG, the parent company of British Airways, also has provisions to force non-EU shareholders to divest within 10 
days but declined to say what percentage of its shareholder base would be EU-nationals post-Brexit.
Under their company rules, Ryanair, easyJet and IAG can issue a "restricted share notice" to non-EU shareholders 
requiring them to sell their shares to an EU national within a number of days.
EasyJet declined to comment, and Ryanair said it was "too early to say for sure" what action it would take. IAG 
said: "We will continue to comply with the . . . regulations."
Load-Date: January 29, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Riverhead Capital Management LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Riverhead Capital 
Management LLC
DailyPolitical
January 30, 2017 Monday 10:17 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 736 words
Byline: Stacy Sanders
Body
Jan 30, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Riverhead Capital Management 
LLC reduced its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 54.5% during the third quarter, 
according to its most recent disclosure with the SEC. The fund owned 1,905 shares of the company's stock after 
selling 2,278 shares during the period. Riverhead Capital Management LLC's holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc were 
worth $143,000 as of its most recent filing with the SEC. 
 Several other hedge funds have also recently made changes to their positions in the stock. Westpac Banking Corp 
bought a new stake in Ryanair Holdings plc during the second quarter worth $186,000. William Blair Investment 
Management LLC boosted its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 31.7% in the second quarter. William Blair 
Investment Management LLC now owns 1,328,219 shares of the company's stock worth $92,364,000 after buying 
an additional 319,347 shares during the last quarter. Neuberger Berman Group LLC boosted its stake in Ryanair 
Holdings plc by 10.1% in the second quarter. Neuberger Berman Group LLC now owns 2,098,241 shares of the 
company's stock worth $145,912,000 after buying an additional 191,873 shares during the last quarter. Airain ltd 
bought a new stake in Ryanair Holdings plc during the second quarter worth $1,054,000. Finally, Todd Asset 
Management LLC boosted its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc by 8.2% in the second quarter. Todd Asset 
Management LLC now owns 294,137 shares of the company's stock worth $20,454,000 after buying an additional 
22,361 shares during the last quarter. 42.39% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional 
investors. Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded down 1.15% during trading on Monday, reaching 
$83.51. The company's stock had a trading volume of 147,056 shares. The firm has a 50-day moving average price 
of $83.67 and a 200-day moving average price of $76.77. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $66.09 and a 
52 week high of $89.67. The firm has a market capitalization of $20.95 billion, a P/E ratio of 15.52 and a beta of 
0.82. 
 
http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/01/30/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-shares-sold-by-riverhead-capital-
management-llc.html.   Several analysts have recently commented on the company. Canaccord Genuity assumed 
coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on Thursday. They issued a 'buy' rating for the company. Zacks 
Investment Research raised Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Tuesday, 
December 13th. Barclays PLC reissued a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings plc in a report on Tuesday, 
January 10th. Bank of America Corporation cut Ryanair Holdings plc from a 'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' 
rating in a report on Tuesday, January 3rd. Finally, Berenberg Bank began coverage on Ryanair Holdings plc in a 
research note on Friday, November 11th. They issued a 'buy' rating for the company. One analyst has rated the 
stock with a sell rating, five have given a hold rating and six have assigned a buy rating to the company. The 
Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY) Shares Sold by Riverhead Capital Management LLC
company has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and a consensus target price of $92.25. About Ryanair Holdings plc 
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds 
are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings plc Daily - Enter your email address 
below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings plc and 
related 
companies 
with 
MarketBeat.com's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[3]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: January 31, 2017
End of Document
IN THE KNOW: IAG To Benefit From Inflection Point In Long-Haul Prices
IN THE KNOW: IAG To Benefit From Inflection Point In Long-Haul Prices
MT Newswires Live Briefs
January 27, 2017 Friday 5:34 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 417 words
Body
 Davy Research said it sees a positive inflection point for prices of long haul carriers, prompting an upgrade its 
rating on International Consolidated Airlines Group, but the broker downgraded easyJet due to competitive 
pressures. 
Davy analysts said capacity growth in the main short and long-haul European markets have been slowing, with 
short-haul growth decelerating for the first time since 2012. However, demand indicators have now turned positive 
for long-haul flights in continental Europe and the US. 
"Following a difficult 18 months, we think the long-haul carriers will soon hit an inflection point in pricing. This has 
already happened in the US, with improved close-in yields seen at all three major US-based carriers in December," 
Davy said. "Those most exposed to positive trends are IAG and Lufthansa."
Davy upgraded its rating for IAG to Outperform from Neutral. IAG was also upgraded by Goldman Sachs to Buy 
from Neutral and was one of the best performers in the FTSE 100 on Friday morning, up 2.0% at 501.50 pence. 
The Davy analysts said their analysis of the European low-cost carrier network found that easyJet's pricing 
weakness is due to "increasing competitive overlap", particularly from Ryanair Holdings. 
"easyJet generates the highest [earnings before interest and tax] per operating base of Europe's LCCs â€" it is 
somewhat vulnerable to encroaching competition from other LCCs," Davy said. 
Davy cut its rating on easyJet to Underperform from Neutral. Ryanair was upgraded to Outperform from Neutral. 
The Irish airline was up 1.0% at EUR14.785. 
Deutsche Bank also sees several "major risks" that could hurt easyJet. Analysts at the German bank said the 
budget carrier's first quarter results earlier this week were "not actually that bad", though the company will face 
IN THE KNOW: IAG To Benefit From Inflection Point In Long-Haul Prices
pressure from slowing UK consumer outbound journeys as a result of the weaker pound. Deutsche said that further 
weakening of sterling, or increases in fuel price, will dampen earnings.
Furthermore, there is likely to be sustained overcapacity in the industry for the next few years, which will squeeze 
underlying pricing. 
"Therefore, whilst we believe in easyJet's business model and strategy, we feel it is still too early to step in for a 
closer look," Deutsche said. 
The German bank maintained its Hold rating and lowered its price target to 915.00p from 935.00p.
easyJet was one of the biggest fallers in the FTSE 100, down 2.2% at 973.00p. The stock was also downgraded by 
Goldman Sachs to Neutral from Buy. 
Load-Date: January 28, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair prepares for Brexit
Ryanair prepares for Brexit
Business World (Digest)
January 27, 2017 Friday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 650 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair is planning for major disruption in its business as a result of Brexit including the outside possibility it may 
have to move its entire UK fleet to continental Europe, Chief Executive Michael O'Leary told Reuters in an 
interview.
Europe's largest airline by passenger numbers, the Irish carrier flies one-third of its 120 million passengers from UK 
airports, leaving it among the most exposed in the industry to Britain's decision to leave the European Union.
An "Armageddon" scenario, in which a hard-line approach from both sides leaves planes unable to fly between 
Britain and the EU at the end of two years of divorce talks is "unlikely, but a possibility," O'Leary said.
"We have a plan, we think, for every eventuality," he said. "But the reality is no one bloody knows."
Even in the best-case scenario in which Britain retained access to the EU's "open skies" deregulated aviation 
market, Ryanair does not plan to deploy to the United Kingdom any of the 65 planes it has due for delivery during 
Brexit talks.
Open Skies, which allows EU airlines to fly to and from any airport within the bloc, has been a key element 
in Ryanair's business model.
The first problem for the aviation industry is the short lead-in time to Brexit, which may not provide enough time for 
an EU-UK bilateral aviation agreement. Like other airlines Ryanairplans its schedule 12 months in advance.
The second is politics. The impact of leaving the European Union on aviation will be among the most visible to the 
British public and may be a tempting tool for EU leaders keen to pressure Britain to soften its position, he said.
Ryanair prepares for Brexit
"If the Europeans want to be difficult with the British, and I think they do, I think 'Open Skies' is where they will first 
cause trouble," he said. "(German Chancellor Angela) Merkel cannot give Britain an easy exit from the EU."
The worst case scenario, which O'Leary said "unlikely but a possibility" is a hard Brexit in which flights between 
Britain and the European Union simply cease on the day after Brexit.
"It would be inconvenient for the Europeans, but the UK would get completely screwed," he said.
That could require Ryanair to move its 13 UK bases, which employ over 3,000 people and operate over 100 planes, 
to bases in continental Europe.
"If we had 12 months' notice, we could re-house 100 aircraft into continental Europe - I mean we have 84 bases," 
he said. "But it would mean significant over-capacity (on intra-EU routes) ...and there would be downward pressure 
on pricing and on profits for a year or two."
If a bilateral deal is agreed in time, Ryanair would still likely have to set up an entity with a British Air Operator's 
Certificate (AOC) in Britain to fly internal routes, which currently represent around 1 percent of its flights.
Ryanair could only own 49 percent or less in the entity under EU rules, he said.
"There are 500 different scenarios, some of them involve us closing them [the UK routes] down, most of them 
don't," he said.
easyJet and British Airways owner International Airlines Group (IAG) would likely have to set up separate entities in 
the EU and Britain with each entity owning less than 49 percent of the other, he said.
easyJet has said it is in the process of setting up an AOC in an EU country and IAG has said it does not foresee 
problems with its ownership structure.
O'Leary said he was focusing on contingency planning rather than lobbying because "most of the industry is in 
denial... and the UK are just talking to themselves."
He said he was hopeful that once British negotiators present a draft agreement, British public opinion might begin to 
change and strengthen the hand of those pushing for a soft Brexit or to remain in Europe.
Ryanair will take its full schedule of deliveries from Boeing and hit its target of 200 million passengers by 2024, 
even if it has to take lower profits, he said. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: February 3, 2017
End of Document
Pre-Market Briefing: US Futures Add to Gains After Dow Tops 20,000; Johnson & Johnson Buys Actelion
Pre-Market Briefing: US Futures Add to Gains After Dow Tops 20,000; 
Johnson & Johnson Buys Actelion
MT Newswires Live Briefs
January 26, 2017 Thursday 4:32 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 304 words
Body
 US equities futures pointed to a higher open Thursday as the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Wednesday for the 
first time pushed beyond the 20,000 mark, prompting a rally in Asia and Europe. 
- The S&P 500 future was up 0.12% recently, the Dow was up 0.22% and Nasdaq was up 0.29%.
- Crude oil futures were higher with West Texas Intermediate crude oil for delivery in March up 0.7% at $53.12 and 
Brent crude up 0.9% at $55.58. The Energy Information Administration releases weekly information on natural gas 
stocks at 10:30 a.m. E.T. 
- In economic data, wholesale inventories, weekly jobless claims, and import and export data, are due out at 8:30 
a.m. New home sales data are released at 10 a.m.
- Companies reporting earnings Thursday morning include Baker Hughes (BHI), Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMY), Fiat 
Chrysler (FCAU), Ford (F) and Southwest Airlines (LUV)
Expected equities movers: 
- eBay (EBAY): Reports Q4 non-GAAP EPS beat 
- Quantum (QTM): Fiscal Q3 EPS misses views
- Mattel (MAT): Q4 earnings miss estimate amid US toy slowdown
Overnight news:
- Johnson & Johnson (JNJ): Acquires Actelion for $30 billion; to spin off R&D company with $1 billion in cash
Pre-Market Briefing: US Futures Add to Gains After Dow Tops 20,000; Johnson & Johnson Buys Actelion
- Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS): Raises provisions for US RMBS investigations, litigation by $3.8 billion to total $8.3 
billion
- WGL Holdings (WGL): To be acquired by Altagas (ALA.TO) for $6.4 billion
- McKesson (MCK): Acquires CoverMyMeds for $1.1 billion
Press digest:
- WalMart (WMT): Judge won't force company to pay $80 million in penalties in suit alleging it failed to pay truck 
drives in California the minimum wage for certain tasks (Associated Press)
- BT Group (BT): Faces at least two shareholder suits in the U.S. after Italy accounting scandal (Reuters)
- Ryanair (RYAAY): In talks about providing connecting flights to Alitalia's long-haul services (Reuters)
Load-Date: January 27, 2017
End of Document
Market Chatter: Ryanair in Talks to Provide Connecting Flights to Alitalia Long-Haul Flights
Market Chatter: Ryanair in Talks to Provide Connecting Flights to Alitalia 
Long-Haul Flights
MT Newswires Live Briefs
January 26, 2017 Thursday 5:14 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 116 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) is in talks to provide connecting flights to Alitalia's long-haul services, Reuters reported, 
citing an interview with CEO Michael O'Leary.
The CEO also said the low-cost airline has raised objections with German authorities about deal under which 
Lufthansa has agreed to lease 38 crewed planes from low-cost airline Air Berlin for six years.
O'Leary said the lease was a "fig leaf" to mask Lufthansa's acquisition of its main domestic competitor. "It is nothing 
other than a takeover," he said, according to the report. He said Ryanair has submitted its concerns to the 
competition authority and said they have been "very receptive."
Price: 84.24, Change: , Percent Change: 
Load-Date: January 27, 2017
End of Document
Whitebox Advisors LLC Purchases Shares of 112,716 Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Whitebox Advisors LLC Purchases Shares of 112,716 Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(RYAAY)
Watchlist News
January 25, 2017 Wednesday 3:21 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 765 words
Byline: Hanz Christensen
Body
Jan 25, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Whitebox Advisors LLC 
purchased a new position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the third quarter, according to its 
most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm purchased 112,716 shares of the 
company's stock, valued at approximately $8,457,000.  Other hedge funds and other institutional investors have 
also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the company. OLD National Bancorp IN boosted its position in 
Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.9% in the third quarter. 
OLD National Bancorp IN now owns 5,143 shares of the company's stock worth $386,000 after buying an additional 
97 shares during the period. Todd Asset Management LLC boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 12.7% 
in the third quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now owns 331,598 shares of the company's stock worth 
$24,880,000 after buying an additional 37,461 shares during the period. Quantbot Technologies LP boosted its 
position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 236.6% in the third quarter. Quantbot Technologies LP now owns 1,656 shares 
of the company's stock worth $124,000 after buying an additional 1,164 shares during the period. Manning ...pier 
Advisors LLC boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 2.8% in the third quarter. Manning ...pier Advisors 
LLC now owns 1,938,000 shares of the company's stock worth $145,406,000 after buying an additional 52,262 
shares during the period. Finally, World Asset Management Inc boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 
6.6% in the third quarter. World Asset Management Inc now owns 17,045 shares of the company's stock worth 
$1,279,000 after buying an additional 1,050 shares during the period. Institutional investors own 42.75% of the 
company's stock. Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded up 0.71% during mid-day trading 
on Wednesday, hitting $84.81. The stock had a trading volume of 29,420 shares. The company's 50 day moving 
average price is $83.60 and its 200 day moving average price is $76.72. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 12-month low 
of $66.09 and a 12-month high of $89.67. The stock has a market cap of $21.27 billion, a P/E ratio of 15.88 and a 
beta of 0.82.  http://www.watchlistnews.com/whitebox-advisors-llc-purchases-shares-of-112716-ryanair-holdings-
plc-ryaay/1079603.html.  Several analysts have recently issued reports on the company. Barclays PLC reiterated a 
'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Tuesday, January 10th. Zacks Investment 
Research cut Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'strong-buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Friday, 
January 6th. Bank of America Corporation cut Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' 
rating in a research note on Tuesday, January 3rd. Berenberg Bank assumed coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in 
a research note on Friday, November 11th. They issued a 'buy' rating on the stock. Finally, HSBC Holdings plc 
upgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Wednesday, 
Whitebox Advisors LLC Purchases Shares of 112,716 Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
November 2nd. One research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold rating and five 
have issued a buy rating to the company's stock. The company has an average rating of 'Hold' and a consensus 
target price of $92.25. About Ryanair Holdings PLC Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company 
for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, 
point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair 
provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, 
including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and 
merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the 
latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair 
Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and 
analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email 
newsletter[3]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: January 25, 2017
End of Document
Thomas Cook's new advert has sent its brand soaring
Thomas Cook's new advert has sent its brand soaring
City A.M.
January 25, 2017 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 350 words
Byline: Stephan Shakespeare
Body
JANUARY is traditionally a time for holiday companies to appeal to potential customers, as people return reluctantly 
to work under grey skies following the Christmas break.
Thomas Cook is one company that is aiming to appeal to future holidaymakers dreaming of sunnier climes.
It launched its "you want, we do" campaign after Christmas, but there is a twist. Naturally, we are shown images of 
sandy beaches and glistening seas, but the advert is also notable as it contains a samesex couple kissing, as well 
as samesex parents.
The advert has been praised for its modern approach, and for its work in more accurately representing the 
population.
YouGov brand tracking data also indicates that Thomas Cook is experiencing an uplift in ad awareness. Following 
the campaign's release, Thomas Cook's ad awareness score (whether someone has seen a brand's advert in the 
past two weeks) has increased by seven points.
Perhaps of greater relevance to Thomas Cook is how the advert is doing among those who are inclined to book 
package holidays. Its ad awareness score with this group has increased by nine points since its release.
Looking specifically at those that would consider booking a holiday with Thomas Cook, our profiles data indicates 
that an emphasis on TV advertising is still an effective way of targeting. Indeed, this group is much more likely than 
the average to say TV is the advertising channel that most grabs their attention (58 per cent of those considering 
Thomas Cook vs 49 per cent of a UK sample).
Thomas Cook's new advert has sent its brand soaring
So while companies such as Thomas Cook face pressures from new entrants to the travel sector such as Airbnb, 
bosses can be content that their ad campaign is being noticed, and especially by their key customer base.
There, is of course, the potential threat from Ryanair and its entrance into the package holiday industry.
On a more general point, Thomas Cook's modern offering is another example of the advertising industry attempting 
to reflect the world around them, and we can expect to see a great deal more of this in the months ahead.
£ Stephan Shakespeare is the chief executive of YouGov
Load-Date: January 25, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Todd Asset Management LLC
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Todd Asset Management 
LLC
Watchlist News
January 24, 2017 Tuesday 4:31 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 778 words
Byline: Mark Dietrich
Body
Jan 24, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Todd Asset Management 
LLC raised its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 12.7% during the third quarter, Holdings 
Channel[1] reports. The institutional investor owned 331,598 shares of the company's stock after buying an 
additional 37,461 shares during the period. Todd Asset Management LLC's holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were 
worth $24,880,000 at the end of the most recent quarter. 
 A number of other institutional investors have also bought and sold shares of the company. Quantbot Technologies 
LP raised its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 236.6% in the third quarter. Quantbot Technologies LP now owns 
1,656 shares of the company's stock worth $124,000 after buying an additional 1,164 shares in the last quarter. 
Manning ...pier Advisors LLC raised its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 2.8% in the third quarter. Manning 
...pier Advisors LLC now owns 1,938,000 shares of the company's stock worth $145,406,000 after buying an 
additional 52,262 shares in the last quarter. World Asset Management Inc raised its position in Ryanair Holdings 
PLC by 6.6% in the third quarter. World Asset Management Inc now owns 17,045 shares of the company's stock 
worth $1,279,000 after buying an additional 1,050 shares in the last quarter. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. 
acquired a new position in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter worth approximately $203,000. Finally, 
Wright Investors Service Inc. raised its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 3.6% in the third quarter. Wright 
Investors Service Inc. now owns 39,084 shares of the company's stock worth $2,932,000 after buying an additional 
1,370 shares in the last quarter. 42.74% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors. Ryanair Holdings 
PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded up 0.21% during midday trading on Tuesday, reaching $84.77. The company had 
a trading volume of 104,622 shares. The company has a market capitalization of $21.26 billion, a PE ratio of 15.86 
and a beta of 0.82. The stock has a 50-day moving average price of $83.54 and a 200 day moving average price of 
$76.61. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 12-month low of $66.09 and a 12-month high of $89.67.  
http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-shares-bought-by-todd-asset-management-
llc/1077413.html.  A number of research firms have recently weighed in on RYAAY. Barclays PLC restated a 'buy' 
rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Tuesday, January 10th. Zacks Investment 
Research downgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'strong-buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on 
Friday, January 6th. Bank of America Corp. downgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'neutral' rating to an 
'underperform' rating in a research report on Tuesday, January 3rd. Berenberg Bank began coverage on Ryanair 
Holdings PLC in a research report on Friday, November 11th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. Finally, 
HSBC Holdings plc upgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Todd Asset Management LLC
Wednesday, November 2nd. One research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold 
rating and five have given a buy rating to the company. Ryanair Holdings PLC currently has an average rating of 
'Hold' and a consensus price target of $92.25. Ryanair Holdings PLC Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc 
(Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, 
scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities 
connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and 
the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? 
Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to 
receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related 
companies 
with 
Analyst 
Ratings 
Network's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: January 24, 2017
End of Document
Airline Strategy Awards 2017 open for nominations The Airline Strategy Awards 2017 has been officially 
launched with a call for nominations. This year's event w....
Airline Strategy Awards 2017 open for nominations; The Airline Strategy 
Awards 2017 has been officially launched with a call for nominations. This 
year's event will take place on Sunday 9 July, returning to the Middle Temple 
Hall in London.
Flight International
January 24, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 264 words
Body
The Airline Strategy Awards 2017 has been officially launched with a call for nominations. This year's event will take 
place on Sunday 9 July, returning to the Middle Temple Hall in London.
FlightGlobal will be delivering the 16th annual awards with a new partner: the executive search firm Korn Ferry.
"I am delighted that FlightGlobal has agreed to continue our strong partnership from my new home at Korn Ferry," 
says the firm's senior client partner Michael Bell, who has worked with the Flight Airline Business team on the 
awards since their inception in 2002.
Over the next few months, nominations will be collected for six categories and considered by a judging panel 
featuring vastly experienced industry veterans.
July's exclusive invitation-only ceremony will be attended by a select group of airline executives, industry 
professionals and international media, making it an excellent networking opportunity.
Attendees will enjoy a cocktail reception before a three-course meal, the awards ceremony and post-dinner drinks.
At last year's event, Ryanair's Michael O'Leary took the top prize, winning in the Executive Leadership category.
Other winners in 2016 included Tony Tyler, then-IATA chief, who took the Flight Airline Business Award; Enrique 
Beltranena, chief executive of Volaris, for Low-Cost Leadership; David Neeleman, chief executive of Azul, for 
Regional Leadership; Delta Air Lines and Virgin Atlantic for Finance; JetBlue Airways for Marketing; and Emirates 
Airline for Network Strategy.
To register nominations or find out more about the event, visit: strategyawards.com
Airline Strategy Awards 2017 open for nominations The Airline Strategy Awards 2017 has been officially 
launched with a call for nominations. This year's event w....
Load-Date: January 24, 2017
End of Document
Exiles find a home from home
Exiles find a home from home
Financial Times (London, England)
January 24, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT REPORT - IRELAND: FINANCIAL SERVICES; Pg. 4
Length: 773 words
Byline: Laura Noonan
Highlight: Brexit The Czech-born boss of Citibank's European operations sees a future in Dublin, writes Laura 
Noonan
Body
He has been in Ireland for less than a year but Citibank Europe's chief executive Zdenek Turek is already 
accustomed to flying Ryanair for some business trips and using a "Lovely Day for a Guinness" coaster to rest his 
teacup.
Over the coming years, hundreds, or even thousands, of Mr Turek's former neighbours in Canary Wharf may follow 
him across the Irish Sea if the UK loses access to the EU's single market and businesses look for new EU bases.
Since the UK's referendum vote in favour of leaving the EU last June, Mr Turek has been inundated with calls from 
a range of people concerned with the issue of shifting jobs from London.
The Czech native, who oversees a Citibank headcount of 2,500 in Ireland and 9,000 across Europe, has been quick 
to calm some of the bankers' most common concerns, among them Ireland's housing shortage .
It took him just three weeks to find a flat in Dublin's fashionable Grand Canal Dock area, best known for its 
proximity to the offices of tech giants Google, Facebook and LinkedIn. Grand Canal Dock is also less than a 
kilometre from Citi's office in Ireland's financial centre and is home to a theatre.
"I find the city quite cultural and really flexible, you can get tickets two days in advance [for theatre], not like in 
London," he says.
Exiles find a home from home
Mr Turek's wife and children have not yet joined him in Dublin because of school arrangements. However, he has 
been looking at family homes and is encouraged by what is on offer.
He is also positive about the supply of office space in Dublin, which is another potential constraint that banks, 
insurers and other financial service groups fear they could face if they were to move their headquarters or more 
activities to the Irish capital - a much smaller city than both London and rival relocation sites such as Paris.
"We have . . . a big conference room on the fifth floor from where I can see most of the city, and the number of 
cranes that popped up in the last year is significant," he says. This construction is "well under way" to addressing 
any concerns about a property shortfall.
However, Mr Turek advises that adopting a "brass plate" approach - where an entity is registered in a country for 
regulatory and tax purposes but has minimal levels of staff - is not an option for financial institutions looking for a 
post-Brexit haven.
"In today's regulatory environment, the regulator simply would not allow it," says Mr Turek. "They [the Central Bank 
of Ireland] have a very strong concept that the minds and hearts of the business have to be where the business is."
When Citi picked Ireland as the location for its European retail banking headquarters in 2014, the bank already had 
a 50-year history in Ireland that has included the building of a significant transaction services business and an 
innovation centre. Citi's Irish balance sheet has now crossed the EUR50bn threshold, putting it under the joint 
supervision of Ireland's regulators and the European Central Bank.
"This is a country that can afford to have certain demands on the people coming in," says Mr Turek. "The economic 
growth is up, the crisis is behind us, the government is thinking long term and wants to have sustainable business 
here."
The country's local financial crisis prompted an exodus of foreign banks including Lloyds' Bank of Scotland and 
Danske's National Irish Bank, alongside the collapse of Anglo Irish Bank and the merger of building society EBS 
into AIB.
In spite of this contraction, Citibank is not ready to take the plunge into operating as a local retail bank itself. "We 
have nothing against the Irish retail market, we just believe it is well banked," says Mr Turek.
Even so, Mr Turek foresees "steady" growth in Ireland for Citibank, especially in transaction and investor services. 
"I can imagine that we will be adding 100 to 200 people per year to our headcount in Ireland, but that depends on 
trends and economic opportunities that are still to be decided in Europe."
Citibank's European chief accepts that though Dublin may benefit from relocations from London that result from 
Brexit, the wider Irish economy could suffer as a consequence of disruption to the trading ties between Ireland the 
UK. But he is optimistic: "There is enough resilience in the Irish economy to cope even if there is a tough outcome 
of the Brexit [negotiations]," he says.
He expects Dublin to remain a popular destination for foreign Citi staffers, as well as for Irish bankers who want to 
go home and locals who join the bank in Dublin and go on to build international careers. "People look at it as a 
career opportunity," he says. "The city is very liveable, the infrastructure is good."
Load-Date: January 23, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Position Raised by Two Sigma Advisers LP
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Position Raised by Two Sigma Advisers LP
DailyPolitical
January 24, 2017 Tuesday 1:12 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 765 words
Byline: Latisha Jones
Body
Jan 24, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Two Sigma Advisers LP boosted 
its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 10.5% during the third quarter, Holdings 
Channel[1] reports. The fund owned 227,217 shares of the company's stock after buying an additional 21,587 
shares during the period. Two Sigma Advisers LP's holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were worth $17,048,000 as 
of its most recent SEC filing. 
 A number of other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently added to or reduced their stakes 
in RYAAY. Profund Advisors LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 9.0% in the third quarter. 
Profund Advisors LLC now owns 11,970 shares of the company's stock valued at $898,000 after buying an 
additional 990 shares during the period. Mirae Asset Global Investments Co. Ltd. bought a new stake in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter valued at about $2,551,000. Global Endowment Management LP 
bought a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter valued at about $1,088,000. 
Northern Trust Corp raised its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 2.4% in the third quarter. Northern Trust 
Corp now owns 384,763 shares of the company's stock valued at $28,869,000 after buying an additional 9,078 
shares during the period. Finally, TimesSquare Capital Management LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC by 15.1% in the third quarter. TimesSquare Capital Management LLC now owns 1,265,100 shares of 
the company's stock valued at $94,920,000 after buying an additional 165,900 shares during the period. 42.74% of 
the stock is owned by institutional investors. Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded down 0.01% 
during trading on Monday, reaching $84.59. 288,472 shares of the company's stock traded hands. Ryanair 
Holdings PLC has a 1-year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of $89.67. The firm has a 50 day moving average of 
$83.42 and a 200 day moving average of $76.41. The firm has a market capitalization of $21.22 billion, a PE ratio of 
15.83 and a beta of 0.82.  http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/01/23/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-position-raised-by-
two-sigma-advisers-lp.html.   A number of equities analysts recently weighed in on RYAAY shares. BNP Paribas 
started coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Thursday, October 13th. They set an 
'outperform' rating on the stock. Zacks Investment Research lowered shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'buy' 
rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Wednesday, October 12th. Bank of America Corp. lowered shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' rating in a research report on Tuesday, January 
3rd. HSBC Holdings plc upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a 
research report on Wednesday, November 2nd. Finally, Beaufort Securities restated a 'buy' rating on shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Wednesday, October 5th. One investment analyst has rated the 
stock with a sell rating, five have given a hold rating and five have given a buy rating to the company's stock. 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Position Raised by Two Sigma Advisers LP
Ryanair Holdings PLC presently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and an average price target of $92.25. About 
Ryanair Holdings PLC Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). 
Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services 
and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled 
services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what 
other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades 
for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your 
email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair 
Holdings PLC and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter[4]. [ 1]:            
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: January 24, 2017
End of Document
Formula Growth Ltd. Has $2,773,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Formula Growth Ltd. Has $2,773,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
January 24, 2017 Tuesday 3:12 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 779 words
Byline: Latisha Jones
Body
Jan 24, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Formula Growth Ltd. held its 
position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the third quarter, Holdings Channel[1] reports. The firm 
owned 36,955 shares of the company's stock at the end of the third quarter. 
Formula Growth Ltd.'s holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were worth $2,773,000 as of its most recent filing with the 
SEC.  Several other institutional investors also recently bought and sold shares of the company. Smithfield Trust 
Co. boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. now 
owns 1,616 shares of the company's stock worth $113,000 after buying an additional 15 shares in the last quarter. 
OLD National Bancorp IN boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.9% in the third quarter. OLD 
National Bancorp IN now owns 5,143 shares of the company's stock worth $386,000 after buying an additional 97 
shares in the last quarter. Timber Hill LLC boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.7% in the third 
quarter. Timber Hill LLC now owns 6,048 shares of the company's stock worth $454,000 after buying an additional 
100 shares in the last quarter. BlackRock Investment Management LLC boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC by 1.1% in the third quarter. BlackRock Investment Management LLC now owns 19,015 shares of the 
company's stock worth $1,427,000 after buying an additional 200 shares in the last quarter. Finally, BOKF NA 
boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 7.1% in the second quarter. BOKF NA now owns 3,922 
shares of the company's stock worth $273,000 after buying an additional 260 shares in the last quarter. 42.74% of 
the stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge funds. Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded down 0.01% during midday trading on Monday, hitting $84.59. 288,472 shares of the 
company traded hands. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 12-month low of $66.09 and a 12-month high of $89.67. The 
company has a market capitalization of $21.22 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 15.83 and a beta of 0.82. The 
stock's 50-day moving average price is $83.42 and its 200 day moving average price is $76.41. 
http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/01/23/formula-growth-ltd-has-2773000-position-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-
ryaay.html.  A number of equities research analysts recently issued reports on the stock. Barclays PLC reiterated a 
'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on Tuesday, January 10th. Zacks Investment Research 
cut shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'strong-buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Friday, January 6th. 
Bank of America Corp. cut shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' rating in a 
report on Tuesday, January 3rd. Berenberg Bank assumed coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report 
on Friday, November 11th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. Finally, HSBC Holdings plc upgraded shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Wednesday, November 2nd. One 
Formula Growth Ltd. Has $2,773,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
equities research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold rating and five have issued a 
buy rating to the company. Ryanair Holdings PLC currently has an average rating of 'Hold' and an average target 
price of $92.25. About Ryanair Holdings PLC Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for 
Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, 
point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair 
provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, 
including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and 
merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the 
latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair 
Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and 
analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: January 24, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair fears UK could lose access to EU 'Open Skies'
Ryanair fears UK could lose access to EU 'Open Skies'
Business World (Digest)
January 24, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 110 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair fears Britain could lose access to the European Union's 'Open Skies' deregulated aviation market in as little 
as two year's time when it is due to leave the bloc, Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said on Tuesday.
"We worry that the price of remaining in Open Skies will be UK accepting freedom of movement of people ... I think 
that may be unlikely in which case we may be heading for a very hard Brexit," O'Leary told journalists in Dublin.
"I don't think it is possible to get interim arrangements through 27 European parliaments in a two year period, so the 
British will fall off a cliff in two years time," he said. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: February 2, 2017
End of Document
Lazard Asset Management LLC Acquires 838,744 Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Lazard Asset Management LLC Acquires 838,744 Shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
January 20, 2017 Friday 10:26 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 760 words
Byline: Kyle Jackson
Body
Jan 20, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Lazard Asset Management 
LLC increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 33.7% during the third quarter, Holdings 
Channel[1] reports. The institutional investor owned 3,330,852 shares of the company's stock after buying an 
additional 838,744 shares during the period. Lazard Asset Management LLC's holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC 
were worth $249,913,000 at the end of the most recent quarter. 
 Several other institutional investors also recently modified their holdings of the company. Smithfield Trust Co. 
raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. now owns 
1,616 shares of the company's stock worth $113,000 after buying an additional 15 shares in the last quarter. OLD 
National Bancorp IN raised its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.9% in the third quarter. OLD National Bancorp 
IN now owns 5,143 shares of the company's stock valued at $386,000 after buying an additional 97 shares during 
the period. Timber Hill LLC raised its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.7% in the third quarter. Timber Hill LLC 
now owns 6,048 shares of the company's stock valued at $454,000 after buying an additional 100 shares during the 
period. BlackRock Investment Management LLC raised its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.1% in the third 
quarter. BlackRock Investment Management LLC now owns 19,015 shares of the company's stock valued at 
$1,427,000 after buying an additional 200 shares during the period. Finally, BOKF NA raised its position in Ryanair 
Holdings PLC by 7.1% in the second quarter. BOKF NA now owns 3,922 shares of the company's stock valued at 
$273,000 after buying an additional 260 shares during the period. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 
42.74% of the company's stock. Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) opened at 84.47 on Friday. 
The stock has a 50 day moving average of $0.00 and a 200 day moving average of $0.00. Ryanair Holdings PLC 
has a 12-month low of $66.09 and a 12-month high of $89.67.  http://www.watchlistnews.com/lazard-asset-
management-llc-acquires-838744-shares-of-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay/1070893.html.  Several equities analysts 
have commented on the stock. Zacks Investment Research upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'sell' 
rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Tuesday, December 13th. Barclays PLC reiterated a 'buy' rating on 
shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Tuesday, January 10th. Bank of America Corp. lowered 
shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'neutral' rating to an 'underperform' rating in a research report on Tuesday, 
January 3rd. Berenberg Bank assumed coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on 
Friday, November 11th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. Finally, HSBC upgraded shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Wednesday, November 2nd. One 
equities research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have issued a hold rating and five have given a 
Lazard Asset Management LLC Acquires 838,744 Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
buy rating to the stock. The company currently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and an average target price of 
$92.25. Ryanair Holdings PLC Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for 
Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, 
point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair 
provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, 
including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and 
merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the 
latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair 
Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and 
analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ 
[ 
4]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-
basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: January 20, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Sold by TT International
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Sold by TT International
DailyPolitical
January 19, 2017 Thursday 3:12 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 799 words
Byline: Trevor Kearing
Body
Jan 19, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  TT International reduced its stake 
in Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 50.7% during the third quarter, Holdings Channel[1] reports. The 
fund owned 157,284 shares of the company's stock after selling 161,796 shares during the period. Ryanair 
Holdings PLC makes up 3.2% of TT International's portfolio, making the stock its 4th largest position. 
TT International owned approximately 0.06% of Ryanair Holdings PLC worth $11,801,000 at the end of the most 
recent reporting period.  Several other large investors also recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. 
Capital International Investors increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 27.3% in the second quarter. Capital 
International Investors now owns 4,309,978 shares of the company's stock worth $299,716,000 after buying an 
additional 925,015 shares in the last quarter. Capital Guardian Trust Co. increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings 
PLC by 193.6% in the second quarter. Capital Guardian Trust Co. now owns 1,161,850 shares of the company's 
stock worth $80,795,000 after buying an additional 766,059 shares in the last quarter. FMR LLC increased its stake 
in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 3.7% in the second quarter. FMR LLC now owns 16,678,645 shares of the company's 
stock worth $1,159,833,000 after buying an additional 595,992 shares in the last quarter. Thornburg Investment 
Management Inc. acquired a new stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the second quarter worth $30,760,000. 
Finally, William Blair Investment Management LLC increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 31.7% in the 
second quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 1,328,219 shares of the company's stock 
worth $92,364,000 after buying an additional 319,347 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge 
funds own 42.74% of the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded up 0.24% on 
Thursday, hitting $84.48. The company had a trading volume of 21,692 shares. The firm has a market capitalization 
of $20787.57 billion, a PE ratio of 15.88 and a beta of 0.82. The firm has a 50-day moving average price of $83.15 
and a 200-day moving average price of $76.29. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 12-month low of $66.09 and a 12-
month high of $89.67.    http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/01/19/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-shares-sold-by-tt-
international.html.  RYAAY has been the topic of a number of recent research reports. Beaufort Securities reiterated 
a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Wednesday, October 5th. Zacks Investment 
Research upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $85.00 price 
target on the stock in a research note on Thursday, September 22nd. BNP Paribas initiated coverage on shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Thursday, October 13th. They set an 'outperform' rating on the stock. 
Berenberg Bank initiated coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on Friday, November 11th. They set a 'buy' 
rating for the company. Finally, Bank of America Corp. cut Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'neutral' rating to an 
'underperform' rating in a report on Tuesday, January 3rd. One investment analyst has rated the stock with a sell 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Sold by TT International
rating, five have assigned a hold rating and five have given a buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings 
PLC currently has an average rating of 'Hold' and a consensus price target of $92.25. Ryanair Holdings PLC 
Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). 
Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services 
and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled 
services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what 
other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades 
for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your 
email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair 
Holdings PLC and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter[4]. [ 1]:            
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: January 19, 2017
End of Document
Market Chatter: Ryanair Might Cease Fights Within UK Upon Brexit
Market Chatter: Ryanair Might Cease Fights Within UK Upon Brexit
MT Newswires Live Briefs
January 18, 2017 Wednesday 11:17 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 84 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) might stop offering flights within Britain once the country leaves the European Union, 
Bloomberg reported, citing CFO Neil Sorahan, who was speaking at the 2017 Global Airfinance conference in 
Dublin.
Sorahan said the company might have to get a U.K. air operating certificate once Brexit is implemented and since 
only 2% of the airline's revenue involves such domestic flights, it could decide instead to withdraw those flights. 
Price: 83.55, Change: -0.99, Percent Change: -1.17
Load-Date: January 19, 2017
End of Document
Friday Papers: Amazon to add 100,000 US jobs
Friday Papers: Amazon to add 100,000 US jobs
Citywire
January 13, 2017 Friday 3:31 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 1015 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And Fiat Chrysler shares crash by a fifth as it is drawn into emissions scandal by US regulators.
Body
Top stories
•
Financial Times: Amazon plans to create more than 100,000 jobs in the US over the next 18 months, 
making it the latest company to deliver job and investment announcements ahead of Donald Trump’s 
inauguration next week. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Fiat Chrysler has been drawn into the "dieselgate" emissions scandal, sending its 
shares plunging by almost a fifth. 
•
The Guardian: Britain’s best known fund manager has likened the current stock market euphoria to the 
dotcom bubble, even as the FTSE 100 closed at yet another record high. 
•
The Times: Britain’s retail sector appears to have enjoyed a far better Christmas than expected despite 
fears that there would be blood on the high street from falling footfall, slower spending and rising prices in 
the wake of Brexit. 
•
Financial Times: Tata Sons has named as its new chairman Natarajan Chandrasekaran, the chief 
executive of its hugely profitable IT services unit - an appointment aimed at restoring stability to the group 
after months of turmoil in its upper ranks. 
•
Financial Times: Marks and Spencer has revealed the first signs of growth in its clothing business for 
nearly two years as the retailer seeks to win back customers under chief executive Steve Rowe. 
Business and economics
•
The Times: The European Central Bank has extended its bond-buying programme till the end of the year, 
despite dissent from some members of its ruling council concerned at the implications of continuing the 
debt purchases. 
•
The Times: George Soros, the American investor known as the man who broke the Bank of England, is 
thought to have lost $1 billion since Donald Trump’s election betting that shares would tumble. 
•
Daily Mail: After years of losing shoppers to low-cost rivals, big name retailers like Tesco and Maks & 
Spencer reported a bumper Christmas. 
Friday Papers: Amazon to add 100,000 US jobs
•
The Times: Whether it was a gilet or the double-zip hooded “Super Fuji”, padded coats have helped 
SuperGroup report a hefty rise in first-half sales and profits. 
•
The Times: Bentley Motors has clawed back all sales lost during China’s blitz on corruption and 
conspicuous consumption thanks to deals with Germans and Russians. 
•
Financial Times: European football clubs have increased profits by €1.5 billion over the past two seasons, 
after sustaining years of heavy losses, as so-called financial fair play rules kicked in. 
•
Daily Mail: The National Grid will not be broken up despite fears over conflicts of interest. 
•
Daily Mail: Low-cost airline Ryanair has sparked a summer flight war with nine new routes from London’s 
Stansted airport, including daily trips to Nice and Naples and a three times-weekly service to Cagliari in 
Sardinia. 
•
Daily Mail: Barratt Developments reported a 6% drop in house sales following a sharp fall in business in 
London. 
•
Financial Times: Car sales in China are forecast to slow sharply this year as stimulus measures designed 
to boost demand are set to end. 
•
The Times: Almost £150 million was wiped off the market value of Spire Healthcare yesterday after the 
company admitted its profits would be hit by delays in the redevelopment of one of its biggest private 
hospitals. 
•
The Times: Ambitious plans by technology companies to beam broadband from the sky have been dealt a 
further blow after it emerged that Alphabet has scrapped its internet drone programme. 
•
Financial Times: Under pressure to deliver a new blockbuster medicine, Sanofi, France’s biggest 
drugmaker, bet big on a new class of cholesterol-lowering products with its Praluent treatment. 
•
Daily Mail: Failed taxi-hailing startup Karhoo is returning after a group backed by carmaker Renault bought 
it out of administration. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Investors have sold off Jupiter’s shares after the fund manager reported a surprising 
exodus of client money in an otherwise bumper period in the financial markets. 
•
Financial Times: Seven Morgan Stanley executives have netted about $17 million selling their shares in the 
bank since Donald Trump’s election, capitalising on a jump in financial stocks driven by his victory. 
•
Financial Times: John Lewis has warned staff that their annual bonus will be “significantly lower” than last 
year as it revealed that profits were under pressure from the weaker pound and increased investment 
costs. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Premier Oil’s major lenders are poised to hit the reset button on the debt-hit UK oil 
explorer within weeks after agreeing the commercial terms to one of the most complex financial 
restructuring deals in the North Sea’s history. 
•
Financial Times: Fitbit made an approach late last year to buy Jawbone, its longstanding rival in wearable 
technology, as the struggling maker of UP fitness trackers scrambles to secure its future. 
•
The Guardian: Sweden’s parliament has rejected plans to introduce legislation that would fine listed 
companies who fail to appoint women to at least 40% of board seats. 
•
The Guardian: The World Bank has downgraded the Indian economy’s growth forecast as sharp falls in the 
country’s automobile and real estate sales flagged the short-term impact of recalling India’s two most-used 
bank notes. 
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): AVOID Hays; BUY Booker Group; AVOID Jupiter Fund Management. 
•
The Daily Telegraph (Questor share tips): TENTATIVE BUY Woodford Patient Capital Trust. 
Friday Papers: Amazon to add 100,000 US jobs
•
Financial Times: UBI Banca, Italy’s fifth-largest bank by assets, has been cleared to buy for €1 the rump of 
three lenders rescued by the state in the latest step in Italian bank consolidation. 
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): The advantages of the European Economic Area are clear. 
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): Forget Brexit; there are much bigger economic challenges to worry about 
than leaving the EU. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Fiat Chrysler: with the bank crackdown over, it is time for the carmakers. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): McDonald’s: it looks like CEO Easterbrook can have his fries and eat them, too. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): TSMC: chipmaker seems a bit stuck with its tag of commodity cyclical. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Marks and Spencer: looking at like-for-like sales growth is misleading for a mature 
business. 
Load-Date: January 13, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair breaks Brexit vow as it expands routes
Ryanair breaks Brexit vow as it expands routes
City A.M.
January 13, 2017 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 14
Length: 197 words
Byline: REBECCA SMITH
Body
RYANAIR yesterday said it will boost its routes from London Stansted, despite earlier promising to pivot away from 
the UK in the wake of the Brexit vote.
The Irish carrier has added a daily service to Naples, a three times daily service to Copenhagen as well as further 
flights bound for Beziers, Cagliari, Clermont, Grenoble, Nice, Nimes and Strasbourg.
Chief commercial officer David O'Brien said the growth deal with Stansted owner Manchester Airports Group in a 
"pretty bleak climate", will increase its passenger numbers there to 20m per year.
He said it means people will move "from the hot air to the hot weather as we escape the misery of all this Brexit talk 
and...gloom".
The airline has been focusing on pivoting growth away from the UK in the wake of the Brexit vote and O'Brien said 
the airline will "do the prudent thing" and "continue a modest growth path in the UK".
Despite the new routes he said the UK's share of Ryanair's growth is "significantly lower" than in recent years. 
While Ryanair had 15 per cent growth in the UK for 2016, this is expected to slow to around seven per cent in 2017. 
O'Brien said "very remote parts of Europe" were now competing for that capacity.
Load-Date: January 13, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Downgraded by Zacks Investment Research
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Downgraded by Zacks Investment Research
Watchlist News
January 12, 2017 Thursday 9:56 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 803 words
Byline: Micah Haroldson
Body
Jan 12, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)             
http://www.watchlistnews.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgZacks Investment Research downgraded shares 
of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) from a strong-buy rating to a hold rating in a report issued on Friday.  
According to Zacks, 'Ryanair operates an ultra-low cost, scheduled airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes 
largely in Europe from its bases in airports across Europe. 
The company offers over 1,600 scheduled short-haul flights per day serving airports largely throughout Europe, with 
a principal fleet of Boeing 737-800 aircraft. ' A number of other brokerages also recently commented on RYAAY. 
Bank of America Corporation downgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a neutral rating to an underperform rating in 
a research report on Tuesday, January 3rd. Berenberg Bank began coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a 
research report on Friday, November 11th. They issued a buy rating for the company. HSBC raised Ryanair 
Holdings PLC from a reduce rating to a hold rating in a research report on Wednesday, November 2nd. Beaufort 
Securities reaffirmed a buy rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Friday, October 21st. 
Finally, BNP Paribas reaffirmed a buy rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Thursday, 
October 20th. One research analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, five have assigned a hold rating and five 
have issued a buy rating to the company's stock. The company currently has an average rating of Hold and an 
average price target of $92.25. Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) opened at 84.03 on Friday. 
The stock has a market cap of $21.08 billion, a P/E ratio of 15.80 and a beta of 0.82. The firm's 50-day moving 
average price is $82.86 and its 200 day moving average price is $75.73. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a one year low 
of $66.09 and a one year high of $89.67.  http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-downgraded-by-
zacks-investment-research/1057431.html.  A number of hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently 
modified their holdings of the stock. Neuberger Berman Group LLC boosted its position in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC by 10.1% in the second quarter. Neuberger Berman Group LLC now owns 2,098,241 shares of the 
company's stock worth $145,912,000 after buying an additional 191,873 shares during the last quarter. Airain ltd 
purchased a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the second quarter worth $1,054,000. Todd 
Asset Management LLC boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 8.2% in the second quarter. 
Todd Asset Management LLC now owns 294,137 shares of the company's stock worth $20,454,000 after buying an 
additional 22,361 shares during the last quarter. Hussman Strategic Advisors Inc. boosted its position in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC by 50.0% in the second quarter. Hussman Strategic Advisors Inc. now owns 75,000 shares 
of the company's stock worth $5,216,000 after buying an additional 25,000 shares during the last quarter. Finally, 
Smithfield Trust Co. boosted its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Downgraded by Zacks Investment Research
Smithfield Trust Co. now owns 1,616 shares of the company's stock worth $113,000 after buying an additional 15 
shares during the last quarter. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 42.75% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Holdings PLC Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair 
Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point 
routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various 
ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.Get a free 
copy of the Zacks research report on Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)[2] For more information about research 
offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com[3] Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC 
Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings 
for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter[4]. [ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=zrmodule...D=AMERBMN_CONTENT_ZER...p_rpt_name_check=s
kip_rpt_name_check...YAAY [ 3]:            http://www.zacks.com/ [ 4]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-
email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: January 12, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Signs Deal with Manchester Airports Group for 9 New London Stansted Routes
Ryanair Signs Deal with Manchester Airports Group for 9 New London 
Stansted Routes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
January 12, 2017 Thursday 7:25 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 71 words
Body
 Ryanair (RYAAY) said in a regulatory filing Thursday that it has signed an agreement with Manchester Airports 
Group to deliver nine new London Stansted routes.
The new routes include a daily service to Naples and a three times daily service to Copenhagen, as well as routes 
to Beziers, Cagliari, Clermont, Grenoble, Nice, Nimes, and Strasbourg. 
Financial terms of the deal weren't provided. 
Price: 84.03, Change: , Percent Change: 
Load-Date: January 13, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair to serve nine new destinations from Stansted Budget carrier Ryanair has disclosed plans to operate 
nine new routes from London Stansted, having reached ....
Ryanair to serve nine new destinations from Stansted; Budget carrier 
Ryanair has disclosed plans to operate nine new routes from London 
Stansted, having reached a growth deal with operator Manchester Airports 
Group.
Flight International
January 12, 2017
Copyright 2017 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLIGHTGLOBAL.COM
Length: 162 words
Body
Budget carrier Ryanair has disclosed plans to operate nine new routes from London Stansted, having reached a 
growth deal with operator Manchester Airports Group.
Among the new destinations, Danish capital Copenhagen will be served thrice daily from the UK airport. Ryanair will 
also boost Stansted's French network, operating daily to Nice, four times weekly to Nimes, thrice weekly to Beziers 
and Grenoble, and twice weekly to Clermont-Ferrand and Strasbourg. The Italian cities of Naples and Cagliari will 
also gain new services: daily and thrice-weekly, respectively.
Ryanair, which also intends to increase the frequencies of 13 existing services from Stansted, expects passenger 
numbers of 20 million at the airport this year, across a total of 140 routes.
FlightGlobal schedules data indicates that Ryanair accounts for 82.7% of seat capacity from Stansted, and that the 
airline will face competition from low-cost rival EasyJet on the new Cagliari, Naples and Nice routes.
Load-Date: January 18, 2017
End of Document
GOLD CUP HERO DON COSSACK RETIRED IN BRIEF
GOLD CUP HERO DON COSSACK RETIRED; IN BRIEF
City A.M.
January 12, 2017 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: SPORT; Pg. 23
Length: 56 words
Body
£ HORSE RACING: Last year's Cheltenham Gold Cup winner Don Cossack has been retired after struggling to 
recover from an injury. The 10-year-old, owned by Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary's Gigginstown House 
Stud, suffered a setback while being primed for a return to racing next month. Trainer Gordon Elliott said: "It's a 
sickener."
Load-Date: January 12, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair is Europe's biggest airline by passengers
Ryanair is Europe's biggest airline by passengers
Business World (Digest)
January 11, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 273 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair has overtaken Lufthansa as Europe's biggest airline by passenger numbers after the German carrier on 
Tuesday reported a meagre 1.8% rise in the number of people it flew in 2016.
Lufthansa's 109.7 million passengers last year fell short of the 117 million passengers reported by low-cost carrier 
Ryanair last week, a 15% increase on the previous year, as Ryanair pulled in passengers with low prices.
The year saw strong performances from other budget carriers, with Norwegian Air Shuttle reporting passenger 
numbers up 14% to 29 million and Wizz Air up 19% to 22.7 million.
EasyJet, which suffered more than low-cost rivals from strikes in France and tourists avoiding destinations hit by 
attacks, grew passenger numbers 6.6% to 74.5 million.
Lufthansa is expanding its Eurowings budget brand to try and regain market share lost in Europe and it is set to 
grow fast this year with deals to lease planes and crew from Air Berlin , plus take over Brussels Airlines.
However, Ryanair has set its sights on Germany as one of the countries in which it wants to expand and will in the 
summer start flying from Lufthansa's home base of Frankfurt.
Lufthansa remains the largest airline group in Europe in terms of revenue because it does more long-haul flying and 
has its own catering and aircraft maintenance units.
Air France-KLM reported a 4% rise in group passengers to 93.4 million, helped by low-cost unit Transavia, which 
carried 23% more passengers.
Ryanair is Europe's biggest airline by passengers
IAG carried 100.6 million people in 2016, an increase of 14% and overtaking its Franco-Dutch rival, after it acquired 
Aer Lingus in August 2015. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: January 19, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) Price Target Raised to GBX 16 at Barclays PLC
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) Price Target Raised to GBX 16 at Barclays PLC
DailyPolitical
January 10, 2017 Tuesday 3:11 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 320 words
Byline: Latisha Jones
Body
Jan 10, 2017( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ryanair Holdings Plc (LON:RYA) 
had its price target upped by Barclays PLC from GBX 14.77 ($0.18) to GBX 16 ($0.19) in a report issued on 
Tuesday. The brokerage currently has a ' overweight' rating on the stock. 
Barclays PLC's target price points to a potential upside of 9.07% from the stock's previous close. Separately, 
Beaufort Securities reiterated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings Plc in a research note on Wednesday, 
October 19th. Shares of Ryanair Holdings Plc (LON:RYA[1]) opened at 14.81 on Tuesday. The stock's 50 day 
moving average is GBX 1,441.08 and its 200 day moving average is GBX 1,280.80. The stock's market cap is GBX 
18.57 billion. Ryanair Holdings Plc has a 12 month low of GBX 10.46 and a 12 month high of GBX 15.59.   
http://www.dailypolitical.com/2017/01/10/barclays-plc-increases-ryanair-holdings-plc-rya-price-target-to-gbx-16.html.   
About Ryanair Holdings Plc Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited 
(Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes 
between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Receive 
News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings Plc Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings Plc and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE 
daily email newsletter[2]. [ 1]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/LON/RYA/ [ 2]:            
http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=LON:RYA 
Load-Date: January 10, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair 's mobile app ranked no.1 airline app in Europe
Ryanair's mobile app ranked no.1 airline app in Europe
Business World (Digest)
January 10, 2017 Tuesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 161 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair have revealed that their improved mobile app has received over 17m downloads, making it the number one 
airline app in Europe on both iOS and Android.   Visits from the app increased by 70% in the last week in December 
and first week in January as more Ryanair customers continued to make bookings via non-desktop devices, while 
the app has received an average rating of 4.5 stars out of 5 from customers across Europe.   Irish iOS customers 
rated the app 5/5, with users in France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Spain and the UK all rating it 
4.5 or higher.    Ryanair’s Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Visits from the app increased by 70% over 
the holiday period as we continued to see traffic from non-desktop devices outnumber desktop visits, which is why 
we are developing each new digital feature with a mobile-first outlook as part of our “Always Getting Better” 
improvement programme."    Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: January 18, 2017
End of Document
Knock Airport celebrate busiest year
Knock Airport celebrate busiest year
Business World (Digest)
January 09, 2017 Monday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 272 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ireland West Airport are celebrating after it was announced 2016 has proven to be a record breaking year at Ireland 
West Airport with passenger numbers exceeding 730,000 for the first time in the airports 31 year history. 
In 2016, the annual number of passengers using the airport increased by 7% to 734,031, an increase of 48,563 
passengers compared to 2015. The Airport now serves 23 International destinations and is served by three of 
Europes major International airlines, Aer Lingus, Flybe and Ryanair.   The growth in passenger numbers in 2016 
was fuelled by the commencement of four new services to Birmingham and Edinburgh with Flybe, Costa Dorada 
with Falcon & Thomson Holidays and the arrival of the first ever charter service from Boston with Aer Lingus. Extra 
capacity on existing services from Barcelona, Bristol, Faro and Manchester also helped drive passenger numbers to 
record levels in 2016.
The UK Market saw the biggest increase in 2016 with an extra 55,000 passengers using UK services to and from 
the airport which represented a 10% increase on 2015 numbers. The Airport now serves 9 different airports across 
the UK which represents the biggest selection of UK services to and from the West and North West of Ireland.    
Commenting on the 2016 performance, Managing Director at Ireland West Airport, Joe Gilmore said, "We are 
delighted to have had a record year in 2016 with passenger numbers exceeding 730,000 for the first time in the 
airports history which is good news for the regional economy, for tourism, and for job creation, both at the airport 
and in the wider economy."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Knock Airport celebrate busiest year
Load-Date: January 17, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair boss lashes out at Brexit backers over Single Market view
Ryanair boss lashes out at Brexit backers over Single Market view
City A.M.
January 9, 2017 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 135 words
Byline: REBECCA SMITH
Body
MICHAEL O'Leary has criticised how the Brexit vote came about, saying people were lied to about key aspects of 
what it would entail.
The Ryanair boss, a staunch supporter of staying in the European Union, said voters were promised they could 
leave the EU and stay in the Single Market, in an interview with the Sunday Times.
"It's now absolutely clear that they were lied to by the exiters. That offer is not on the table and significant damage 
will be done to the UK economy as a result," he said.
O'Leary also said he didn't think rival IAG's structure "is going to survive" post-Brexit, due to global rules limiting 
foreign control of local airlines.
"European carriers will go apeshit if IAG is allowed to simply circumvent the rule and have two European and a UK 
airline operating in the same group," he said.
Load-Date: January 9, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stake Lowered by New York State Common Retirement Fund
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stake Lowered by New York State Common 
Retirement Fund
Watchlist News
January 5, 2017 Thursday 8:41 PM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 785 words
Byline: Mark Dietrich
Body
Jan 05, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  New York State Common 
Retirement Fund reduced its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 10.3% during the third 
quarter, Holdings Channel[1] reports. The fund owned 168,194 shares of the company's stock after selling 19,300 
shares during the period. New York State Common Retirement Fund's holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were 
worth $12,620,000 as of its most recent SEC filing. 
 Several other institutional investors have also recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. Smithfield Trust Co. 
increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. now 
owns 1,616 shares of the company's stock worth $113,000 after buying an additional 15 shares in the last quarter. 
OLD National Bancorp IN increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.9% in the third quarter. OLD 
National Bancorp IN now owns 5,143 shares of the company's stock worth $386,000 after buying an additional 97 
shares in the last quarter. Timber Hill LLC increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.7% in the 
third quarter. Timber Hill LLC now owns 6,048 shares of the company's stock worth $454,000 after buying an 
additional 100 shares in the last quarter. BlackRock Investment Management LLC increased its stake in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.1% in the third quarter. BlackRock Investment Management LLC now owns 19,015 
shares of the company's stock worth $1,427,000 after buying an additional 200 shares in the last quarter. Finally, 
BOKF NA increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 7.1% in the second quarter. BOKF NA now 
owns 3,922 shares of the company's stock worth $273,000 after buying an additional 260 shares in the last quarter. 
42.75% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors. Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded up 1.27% on Thursday, hitting $84.01. The stock had a trading volume of 379,219 
shares. The company has a market capitalization of $20744.67 billion, a PE ratio of 13.11 and a beta of 0.82. The 
firm has a 50-day moving average of $82.83 and a 200 day moving average of $75.60. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 
1-year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of $89.67.  http://www.watchlistnews.com/ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay-stake-
lowered-by-new-york-state-common-retirement-fund/1048850.html.  A number of equities research analysts 
recently issued reports on the company. Zacks Investment Research downgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 
'hold' rating to a 'sell' rating in a research report on Wednesday, November 23rd. Beaufort Securities reaffirmed a 
'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on Friday, October 21st. Berenberg Bank started 
coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on Friday, November 11th. They issued a 'buy' rating on the stock. 
Deutsche Bank AG downgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on 
Wednesday, September 7th. Finally, HSBC raised Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Stake Lowered by New York State Common Retirement Fund
report on Wednesday, November 2nd. One analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, four have issued a hold 
rating, four have given a buy rating and one has given a strong buy rating to the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings 
PLC currently has a consensus rating of 'Buy' and an average price target of $92.25. Ryanair Holdings PLC 
Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). 
Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between 
Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services 
and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled 
services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what 
other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades 
for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your 
email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair 
Holdings PLC and related companies with Analyst Ratings Network's FREE daily email newsletter[4]. [ 1]:            
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: January 5, 2017
End of Document
Trading Post
Trading Post
Financial Times (London, England)
January 5, 2017 Thursday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: TRADING POST; Pg. 19
Length: 242 words
Byline: Jamie Chisholm
Body
Is there a "taper playbook" that can apply to European stocks as investors ponder less European Central Bank 
largesse, asks Morgan Stanley's global equity strategy team.
The bank analysed US stock market performance in the three months following the Federal Reserve's hint at 
tapering in May 2013.
"In the first month following the Fed's hint at tapering, interest rate sensitive, high dividend yield sectors [real estate, 
utilities, telecoms] materially underperformed in the US, while financials, technology and industrials were the best 
performers," Morgan Stanley said.
Momentum continued over the next two months, with banks the best performing industry group over the whole 
period and "besides high yielding industries, consumer durables were a notable underperformer".
The bank also found that the first month after the tapering hint was characterised as risk off, where "low beta, 
high/moderate quality, and mega/large-caps outperformed high beta, junk, and small-caps". The next two months 
saw those moves reverse.
Assuming this US taper playbook is applicable to Europe, Morgan Stanley ran the numbers. The favourable list of 
low yielding but attractively valued stocks is an eclectic mix that includes Ryanair, Thyssen Krupp, Vestas, Peugeot 
and a smattering of financials .
Trading Post
The unfavourable screen of high yielders and "unattractive forward price/earning ratios" includes Vodafone, Statoil, 
Vivendi, Ericsson and Unibail-Rodamco.
jamie.chisholm@ft.com 
Load-Date: January 4, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair launch January seat sale
Ryanair launch January seat sale
Business World (Digest)
January 05, 2017 Thursday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 129 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair have today launched a massive one-day €9.99 seat sale with 100,000 seats on 200 routes on sale for just 
€9.99, for travel until the end of January,   The flights must be booked before midnight (24:00hrs) Thursday (5 Jan), 
and can only be found on the Ryanair.com website.   Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Robin Kiely says, "What 
better way to brighten up the first week back at work than to book a sun or city January break, and to help we’ve put 
100,000 seats on sale from just €9.99 for travel on over 200 routes until the end of the month. These sale seats are 
only available for booking until midnight tonight, Thursday, so customers should log on to the Ryanair.com website 
and book a January break to look forward to right away."
Source: www.businessworld.ie  
Load-Date: January 16, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair rockets as passenger numbers soar
Ryanair rockets as passenger numbers soar
City A.M.
January 5, 2017 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2017 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 185 words
Byline: EMMA HASLETT
Body
RYANAIR said yesterday its passenger numbers soared 20 per cent in December, as customers went berserk for 
lower fares.
In an update, Ryanair said it flew nine million customers last month, bringing its total for 2016 up to 117m, 15 per 
cent higher than the same period the year before. Shares in the airline closed up nearly three per cent at 
(EURO)14.57.
Load factor - a measure of how packed planes are - rose to 94 per cent in December, up three percentage points 
from the same period last year.
Last month the airline set out plans to become the "Amazon of air travel", with the launch of a new package 
holidays arm.
As well as flights, Ryanair has partnered with Spain-based tour operator Logitravel and accommodation provider 
World2Meet to offer its customers accommodation and transfer packages.
It also launched Ryanair Car Hire and Ryanair Rooms last year - and insisted the enthusiasm with which both were 
embraced suggested customers were keen to go to the company for "services and products other than flights".
Spokesman Kenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair's December traffic grew... on the back of lower fares."
Load-Date: January 5, 2017
Ryanair rockets as passenger numbers soar
End of Document
Ryanair left behind as FTSE extends record-breaking run Bryce Elder; London
Ryanair left behind as FTSE extends record-breaking run Bryce Elder; 
London
Financial Times (London, England)
January 4, 2017 Wednesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 19
Length: 448 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
The London market began 2017 much as it ended 2016, with the FTSE 100 extending its record-breaking run. But 
Ryanair was left behind.
Merrill Lynch advised clients to sell Ryanair, saying the rise of protectionism in Europe could stunt its ability to take 
market share from flag carriers. The shares slipped 2.5 per cent to EUR14.17.
"We see evidence that European governments, specifically in Germany, are looking to protect their national legacy 
carriers, given their significant employee catchments," said Merrill. "To serve this purpose, we think regional 
regulators may focus their attentions on Ryanair's pilot staffing strategies in 2017, as a means of attempting to stifle 
Ryanair's market share land-grab."
Ryanair has targeted winning up to 20 per cent of the German aviation market by seats, from about 5 per cent. 
German authorities have since May been investigating whether Ryanair's use of pilot agencies breached tax and 
employment laws.
Dollar strength helped power a sixth straight gain for the wider market, with the FTSE 100 up 0.5 per cent or 35.06 
points to a record high of 7,177.89.
Ryanair left behind as FTSE extends record-breaking run Bryce Elder; London
But retailers were under pressure ahead of the Christmas trading update season, scheduled to begin with Next 
today.
Deutsche Bank's 2017 retail sector preview advised avoiding sectors vulnerable to competition online, such as 
apparel. The broker removed Next (down 4.3 per cent to £47.70) from its "buy" list and cut both Halfords (down 5.6 
per cent to 345p) and Debenhams (off 3.9 per cent to 55.05p) to "sell".
"There are two inescapable themes for the retail sector in 2017," Deutsche told clients. "First, we expect consumer 
demand to soften, especially in the UK, where we forecast household discretionary spend growth to slow from 5.4 
per cent in 2016 to 4.2 per cent in 2017, due to higher non-discretionary inflation. Second, cost of goods inflation 
should increase, though we think this can be handled without retailers feeling too much margin pain. The least-bad 
option is likely to be to raise prices."
Barclays led a Europe-wide rally for the banking sector, up 3.8 per cent to 231.9p. The gains followed news that 
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision had postponed a meeting because it could not find a consensus on 
how to impose capital requirements.
InterContinental Hotels hit a record high, up 1.3 per cent to £36.84, with Barclays turning positive on a £40 target 
price. Its upgrade was pinned on signs of an upturn in US demand and a possible $350m cash return with full-year 
results, which would be seen as "particularly significant since it would be unrelated to one-off asset sales and 
instead reflect the underlying cash generative-business model", an analyst said.
Load-Date: January 3, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair renews agreement with Navitaire
Ryanair renews agreement with Navitaire
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 4, 2017 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2017 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS; Technology & Telecommunications
Length: 362 words
Highlight: Ryanair has renewed its agreement with Navitaire, a provider of transportation technology services.
Body
Under the terms of the contract, Ryanair will use the firm&#39;s advanced ancillary and reservations solution 
including merchandizing, distribution, digital and departure control platforms until 2025, which will represent 25 
years of collaboration between Ryanair and Navitaire.Throughout the carrier&#39;s storied success over the last 17 
years, Ryanair has relied on Navitaire&#39;s scalable, proven solutions to support its dramatic growth, drive strong 
ancillary revenue results, and help retain its position as the industry&#39;s lowest operational cost structure and 
high profit airlines.Ryanair continues to unveil products and passenger service enhancements through its "Always 
Getting Better" (AGB) program. Now in its third year, AGB continues to gain momentum through new service, digital 
and inflight developments. Navitaire reservations and ancillary revenue platforms underpin these initiatives by 
enabling Ryanair to tap an extensive, diverse suite of APIs providing customizable building blocks to create 
programs and services to better serve and attract customers.John Hurley, Ryanair CTO said: "Our partnership with 
Navitaire has helped us achieve consistent double-digit growth and higher profitability, enabling more customers to 
travel than ever before. 
Navitaire understands what&#39;s important for our success, and offers the solutions we need to let us easily 
create ever-improving digital tools, ancillary services, powerful personalization capabilities and customer service 
enhancements to fulfill our upcoming growth plans."David P. Evans, Navitaire CEO, said "From the advent of 
ecommerce and retailing, Navitaire and Ryanair have long been recognized as visionaries and innovators driving 
strong business results. Just as Ryanair has defined and transformed low-cost travel, our New Skies platform was 
built to extend well beyond the boundaries of traditional passenger service system norms. It&#39;s been an honor 
to support Ryanair&#39;s growth from five million annual passengers when we started working together to achieve 
the stellar growth they enjoy today, and we look forward to helping them reach the 200 million target in the future."
Load-Date: January 18, 2017
Ryanair renews agreement with Navitaire
End of Document
Ryanair December Traffic Increases 20%
Ryanair December Traffic Increases 20%
MT Newswires Live Briefs
January 4, 2017 Wednesday 5:26 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 42 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY), a budget airline company, said Wednesday that December passenger traffic rose 20% 
to 9 million customers compared to the prior year period.
The load factor rose 3 percentage points to 94%.
Price: 79.67, Change: , Percent Change: 
Load-Date: January 5, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair sees December traffic grow 20%
Ryanair sees December traffic grow 20%
Business World (Digest)
January 04, 2017 Wednesday
Copyright 2017 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 145 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair traffic grew 20% to 9.0m customers in December according to their latest traffic statistics.    The figures 
show that load factor rose 3% points to 94% and rolling annual traffic to Dec grew 15% to 117m customers.
Ryanair’s Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Ryanair’s December traffic grew by 20% to 9.0m customers, 
while our load factor jumped 3% points to 94%, on the back of lower fares in December and the continuing success 
of our “Always Getting Better” customer experience programme."
He added, "Customers can look forward to even lower fares for summer 2017, so there’s never been a better time 
to book a low fare flight on Ryanair and we urge all customers who wish to book their summer 2017 holidays to do 
so now on the Ryanair.com website or mobile app, where they can avail of the lowest fares in Europe."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: January 12, 2017
End of Document
Mirae Asset Global Investments Co. Ltd. Purchases New Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Mirae Asset Global Investments Co. Ltd. Purchases New Position in Ryanair 
Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Watchlist News
January 3, 2017 Tuesday 4:26 AM EST
Copyright 2017 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 708 words
Byline: Lindsey Winhoffer
Body
Jan 03, 2017( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Mirae Asset Global 
Investments Co. Ltd. acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the third 
quarter, Holdings Channel[1] reports. 
The institutional investor acquired 34,005 shares of the company's stock, valued at approximately $2,551,000.  
Several other institutional investors also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. Smithfield Trust Co. 
boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. now owns 
1,616 shares of the company's stock worth $113,000 after buying an additional 15 shares during the last quarter. 
Quantbot Technologies LP boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 236.6% in the third quarter. 
Quantbot Technologies LP now owns 1,656 shares of the company's stock worth $124,000 after buying an 
additional 1,164 shares during the last quarter. Westpac Banking Corp acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC during the second quarter worth about $186,000. Bremer Trust National Association acquired a new 
stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter worth about $202,000. Finally, Sumitomo Mitsui 
Trust Holdings Inc. acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter worth about 
$203,000. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 42.75% of the company's stock. Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) remained flat at $83.26 during midday trading on Monday. The stock had a trading volume of 
93,893 shares. The stock has a 50 day moving average of $0.00 and a 200-day moving average of $0.00. Ryanair 
Holdings PLC has a 12 month low of $66.09 and a 12 month high of $89.67.   http://www.watchlistnews.com/mirae-
asset-global-investments-co-ltd-purchases-new-position-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay/1045910.html.  A number of 
equities research analysts have recently issued reports on RYAAY shares. Beaufort Securities reissued a 'buy' 
rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Friday, October 21st. BNP Paribas reissued a 
'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Thursday, October 20th. Zacks Investment 
Research raised shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $85.00 target price 
for the company in a research report on Thursday, September 22nd. Berenberg Bank assumed coverage on shares 
of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Friday, November 11th. They issued a 'buy' rating for the 
company. Finally, HSBC raised shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a 
research report on Wednesday, November 2nd. Four investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating, 
four have issued a buy rating and one has assigned a strong buy rating to the stock. The stock presently has a 
consensus rating of 'Buy' and an average target price of $92.25. About Ryanair Holdings PLC Ryanair Holdings plc 
(Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, 
Mirae Asset Global Investments Co. Ltd. Purchases New Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, 
Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities 
connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and 
the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? 
Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to 
receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related 
companies 
with 
Analyst 
Ratings 
Network's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: January 3, 2017
End of Document
Norwegian eyes further transatlantic savings; Airlines
Norwegian eyes further transatlantic savings; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
January 3, 2017 Tuesday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 13
Length: 341 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
The introduction of transatlantic flights to secondary airports will help to slash costs at Norwegian Air Shuttle, its 
chief executive has said.
Bjørn Kjos was speaking as his airline, a pioneer in no-frills long haul, prepares to launch services between regional 
European hubs and minor eastern US airports during 2017.
Norwegian is one of the most expensive European budget operators.
The operation will use single-aisle jets normally used only for short-haul operations and, like many of Norwegian's 
activities, has been made possible by a new generation of fuel-efficient aircraft.
Norwegian plans to introduce an ultra-low fare of £56 for a one-way flight between Edinburgh and a secondary 
airport in New York.
The new services - between cities such as Edinburgh and Cork, and Stewart International Airport, about 70 miles 
upstate of New York City, or Providence, Rhode Island - will bring down Norwegian's costs, which are about 4.3 
euro cents per available seat kilometre, a standard industry metric.
Analysts calculate that for Ryanair the cost is about 3.6 euro cents. The Irish carrier, the industry cost leader, does 
not release comparable figures.
Norwegian eyes further transatlantic savings; Airlines
"Our long haul is working," Mr Kjos said. "And the more efficient an operation we have, the more aircraft we can put 
in long haul, the less costs we will have."
Norwegian's costs would be divided across more passengers after the planned long-haul expansion, he added.
The flights to secondary airports will be use Boeing's new, highly efficient 737 Max aircraft .
Starting in 2019 Norwegian plans to operate Airbus's largest single-aisle product, a longer-range version of the 
A321.
Both aircraft offer improved fuel economy and have the range to fly from Europe to eastern US.
"We fly extremely modern aircraft," Mr Kjos said. "That's the key with cost in long haul."
For its current long-haul operations - which include many from London Gatwick to destinations such as Fort 
Lauderdale - Norwegian uses Boeing's 787 Dreamliner .
Its short-haul network around Scandinavia has some of the highest costs.
Load-Date: January 2, 2017
End of Document
--Analyst Actions: BofA / Merrill Lynch Downgrades Ryanair to Underperform vs Neutral
--Analyst Actions: BofA/Merrill Lynch Downgrades Ryanair to Underperform 
vs Neutral
MT Newswires Live Briefs
January 3, 2017 Tuesday 11:18 AM EST
Copyright 2017 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 8 words
Body
Price: 79.68, Change: -3.58, Percent Change: -4.30
Load-Date: January 4, 2017
End of Document
Ukraine International takes 737-800 from SMBC Aviation
Ukraine International takes 737-800 from SMBC Aviation
AirFinance Journal
January 2017
Copyright 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 65 words
Byline: Olivier Bonnassies
Body
SMBC Aviation Capital has placed one Boeing 737-800 aircraft under a lease agreement with Ukraine International 
Airlines.
The aircraft, MSN 35017, is SMBC Aviation Capital’s fourth aircraft delivery to Ukraine International Airlines and the 
company’s first delivery this year.
Airfinance Journal’s Fleets shows that the 2009-vintage aircraft was on lease to Ryanair since new.
Load-Date: February 6, 2017
End of Document
Suntrust Banks Inc. Reduces Stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Suntrust Banks Inc. Reduces Stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
December 31, 2016 Saturday 3:12 AM EST
Copyright 2016 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 766 words
Byline: Stacy Sanders
Body
Dec 31, 2016( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Suntrust Banks Inc. decreased 
its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 6.1% during the third quarter, according to its 
most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The firm owned 45,241 shares of the 
company's stock after selling 2,918 shares during the period. Suntrust Banks Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair Holdings 
PLC were worth $3,392,000 at the end of the most recent quarter. 
 Several other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also made changes to their positions in RYAAY. 
Segantii Capital Management Ltd acquired a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third 
quarter worth about $7,790,000. Ameriprise Financial Inc. increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 8.3% in 
the third quarter. Ameriprise Financial Inc. now owns 1,214,073 shares of the company's stock valued at 
$91,050,000 after buying an additional 93,349 shares in the last quarter. BlackRock Group LTD increased its 
position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.9% in the third quarter. BlackRock Group LTD now owns 119,815 shares of 
the company's stock valued at $8,990,000 after buying an additional 2,200 shares in the last quarter. Teachers 
Advisors LLC increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 3.0% in the third quarter. Teachers Advisors LLC 
now owns 59,532 shares of the company's stock valued at $4,467,000 after buying an additional 1,742 shares in 
the last quarter. Finally, BlackRock Fund Advisors increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 1.5% in the 
third quarter. BlackRock Fund Advisors now owns 661,722 shares of the company's stock valued at $49,649,000 
after buying an additional 9,560 shares in the last quarter. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 
42.75% of the company's stock. Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) remained flat at $83.26 
during mid-day trading on Friday. The company's stock had a trading volume of 93,893 shares. Ryanair Holdings 
PLC has a 1-year low of $66.09 and a 1-year high of $89.67. The company's 50-day moving average price is 
$82.92 and its 200-day moving average price is $75.62.  http://www.dailypolitical.com/2016/12/30/suntrust-banks-
inc-reduces-stake-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay.html.  RYAAY has been the subject of several recent research 
reports. Deutsche Bank AG downgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research 
note on Wednesday, September 7th. Zacks Investment Research raised Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'hold' rating 
to a 'buy' rating and set a $85.00 price objective for the company in a research note on Thursday, September 22nd. 
Beaufort Securities reissued a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Wednesday, 
October 5th. BNP Paribas initiated coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Thursday, October 
13th. They issued an 'outperform' rating for the company. Finally, HSBC raised Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 
'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Wednesday, November 2nd. Four equities research analysts 
have rated the stock with a hold rating, four have given a buy rating and one has given a strong buy rating to the 
Suntrust Banks Inc. Reduces Stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
company's stock. The company presently has a consensus rating of 'Buy' and a consensus price target of $92.25. 
About Ryanair Holdings PLC Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited 
(Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes 
between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to 
see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the latest 13F filings and 
insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily 
- Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for 
Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter[3]. [ 1]:            
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: December 30, 2016
End of Document
State of Tennessee Treasury Department Sells 74,682 Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
State of Tennessee Treasury Department Sells 74,682 Shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
December 26, 2016 Monday 11:12 PM EST
Copyright 2016 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 768 words
Byline: Latisha Jones
Body
Dec 26, 2016( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  State of Tennessee Treasury 
Department decreased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 38.3% during the third quarter, 
according to its most recent Form 13F filing with the SEC. The fund owned 120,368 shares of the company's stock 
after selling 74,682 shares during the period. State of Tennessee Treasury Department's holdings in Ryanair 
Holdings PLC were worth $9,032,000 as of its most recent filing with the SEC. 
 A number of other institutional investors have also recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. FMR LLC 
boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 3.7% in the second quarter. FMR LLC now owns 16,678,645 
shares of the company's stock worth $1,159,833,000 after buying an additional 595,992 shares during the period. 
Capital International Investors boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 27.3% in the second quarter. Capital 
International Investors now owns 4,309,978 shares of the company's stock worth $299,716,000 after buying an 
additional 925,015 shares during the period. Neuberger Berman Group LLC boosted its position in Ryanair 
Holdings PLC by 27.3% in the third quarter. Neuberger Berman Group LLC now owns 2,670,534 shares of the 
company's stock worth $200,370,000 after buying an additional 572,293 shares during the period. Manning ...pier 
Advisors LLC boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 2.8% in the third quarter. Manning ...pier Advisors 
LLC now owns 1,938,000 shares of the company's stock worth $145,406,000 after buying an additional 52,262 
shares during the period. Finally, Royal Bank of Canada boosted its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 21.0% in 
the second quarter. Royal Bank of Canada now owns 1,705,440 shares of the company's stock worth $118,597,000 
after buying an additional 296,289 shares during the period. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 
42.75% of the company's stock. Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded up 0.0000% during 
midday trading on Monday, reaching $83.8600. 112,692 shares of the company traded hands. Ryanair Holdings 
PLC has a 12-month low of $66.09 and a 12-month high of $89.67.  http://www.dailypolitical.com/2016/12/26/state-
of-tennessee-treasury-department-sells-74682-shares-of-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay.html.  A number of research 
firms have recently commented on RYAAY. Zacks Investment Research upgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC 
from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Friday, November 11th. HSBC upgraded shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Wednesday, November 2nd. Berenberg 
Bank began coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Friday, November 11th. They set a 
'buy' rating for the company. Deutsche Bank AG downgraded shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'buy' rating to 
a 'hold' rating in a research note on Wednesday, September 7th. Finally, Beaufort Securities restated a 'buy' rating 
on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Friday, October 21st. Four investment analysts have 
State of Tennessee Treasury Department Sells 74,682 Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
rated the stock with a hold rating, four have assigned a buy rating and one has given a strong buy rating to the 
company's stock. Ryanair Holdings PLC currently has an average rating of 'Buy' and a consensus price target of 
$92.25. About Ryanair Holdings PLC Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair 
Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point 
routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various 
ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise. Want to 
see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the latest 13F filings and 
insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily 
- Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for 
Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter[3]. [ 1]:            
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: December 26, 2016
End of Document
My midsummer morning
My midsummer morning
Financial Times (London, England)
December 24, 2016 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - LIFE & ARTS; Pg. 5
Length: 1963 words
Byline: Alastair Humphreys
Highlight: He has rowed the Atlantic and cycled round the world but this year Alastair Humphreys found true 
adventure closer to home - busking across Spain in the footsteps of Laurie Lee
Body
A year ago I was on a train, rattling slowly through December's grey towns and leafless landscapes. I was reading a 
book, a tale of bright sunshine, colourful village fiestas, and adventure. I looked up from my book and let out a sigh.
For most of my adult life I have either been wandering the world or reading stories of people wandering the world. 
Laurie Lee's As I Walked Out One Midsummer Morning was one of the books that got me started and I still read it 
almost annually.
Lee arrived in Spain in the summer of 1935. He had never been overseas, had rarely even left the quiet 
Gloucestershire village he grew up in. He was searching for adventure and chose Spain simply because he knew 
one phrase in Spanish - ¿ un vaso de agua, por favor? His vague, romantic idea was to walk through the country, 
paying his way by playing his violin. Lee travelled slowly, lived simply, slept on hilltops and relished spontaneity.
Every time I read his story I yearned to follow in Lee's bucolic footsteps but there was one significant problem. I 
could not play the violin or any other instrument. Even the thought of performing, dancing or singing in public 
terrified me. But the walk without the music would be missing the point.
My midsummer morning
And so for 15 years I shelved the idea of walking out one midsummer morning in Spain. Instead I embarked on a 
series of physical challenges in remote environments. I cycled round the world for four years. I walked across 
southern India and the Empty Quarter desert. I crossed Iceland. I rowed the Atlantic.
But the more expeditions I did, the better I became at them. I realised I had begun sticking to what I was good at, 
living precisely the unchallenging, routine life that this was all supposed to help me avoid. The essence of 
adventure is to seek out that which scares you and to risk uncertainty and failure. I realised that if I wanted to 
continue testing myself, I needed to move away from meaningless penances in the wilderness.
As the train rumbled on, I pulled my phone from my pocket. But this time, instead of the escapism of social media, I 
opened Google and typed the words "find a local violin teacher" before I had time to really think.
I bought a violin the next morning. An impulsive, flippant email sent while bored on a train had set something in 
motion. Becoming a beginner again was a refreshing experience - I loved the tangible steps of improvement. I 
quickly learned, however, that the violin cannot be quickly learnt.
After seven months I was still appalling. But it was time to begin what promised to be a hungry and deeply 
embarrassing journey. I would catch a Ryanair flight to Vigo, where Lee began his walk, take no money, busk to 
survive, and try to make it all the way to Madrid.
At Vigo airport I sealed my passport, return plane ticket and credit card in a plastic bag with a note to myself saying 
"if you open this before the end you have failed". From now on it was just me, my violin, and five pitiful tunes that 
most seven-year-old violinists would turn their noses up at. I hoisted my pack on to my back and walked down to 
the harbour. I was more nervous than I had been since the day I set off to row across the Atlantic.
It was a disaster. My songs sounded as pitiful as I knew they would. I deeply regretted this farce. There was no 
crowd, no cascade of coins, no applause. Just indifference, disbelief, laughter or wrinkled noses as people 
accelerated past my empty violin case, eyes averted.
After a fruitless, mortifying hour sawing away in the charming, once peaceful plaza, I saw an elderly man rise from 
his bench and walk slowly towards me. I assumed that he was going to reprimand me. "Enough! Time to move on." 
But instead he put his hand into his pocket. Surely not! He pulled out a coin and I felt I was going to burst with 
excitement and amusement and relief. A whole euro - and with it hope.
I consulted my map and walked out of Vigo. I had a month to follow Lee's route as far as Madrid but this was the 
first time I had given much thought to the 500 or so miles ahead - confirmation that walking almost 20 miles a day 
was far less daunting than playing a ditty to a dozen people. Eventually the fierce heat and the hard city streets 
gave way to fragrant eucalyptus woods, views back down the mountains to the sea, and my first night under the 
stars. I cooked rice bought with my first earnings on a tiny fire, eating gratefully from the pan, and fell asleep in a 
field, buzzing with the excitement of beginning.
I soon settled into the slow, ageless rhythms of walking journeys that heft you to a landscape: waking at dawn, 
walking through pine forests or hillsides of bracken, chatting with shepherds on dusty white droving roads, 
swimming in trout pools, snoozing in sweet chestnut groves and rolling out my bedding each night. This was the 
same way Lee experienced his Spain. The wayside blackberries, apples and grapes were not yet ripe, taunting my 
hungry belly as I eked out crusts of bread.
I suffered, as Lee had done, across the fiercely hot plains of Castile. Sunflowers marched for miles across the 
empty world, yellow armies of nodding heads and my only companion in those shimmering, lonely miles. Wheat 
fields whispered in the faintest breeze as I trudged towards Toro, in Lee's words "an ancient, eroded, red-walled 
town spread along the top of a huge flat boulder". One advantage I had over him was the existence of irrigation 
sprinklers. One scorching afternoon I stripped naked in a cabbage field for a delightful cold shower. All I had to do 
each day was walk, and then work (busk) in order to afford to walk another day. Life was simple. Simple but not 
easy.
My midsummer morning
I fretted that my beginner's luck would expire and my incompetence be shouted out of town. I nervously dragged 
out the process of finding strategic spots to busk, unpacking my violin and arranging my music sheets slowly before 
the first violent screech shattered the town's peace and my happy anonymity. The thrill of earning the day's first coin 
never diminished, however, and I grew increasingly confident with my performances. Declare and embrace your 
vulnerabilities and they cease to be weaknesses.
One hot, still morning I arrived in pretty Puebla de Sanabria on the banks of the meandering Río Castro. My timing 
was fortuitous: it was Sunday and the town was filling with ambling, affable tourists. By the time my patch of shade 
beneath the castle walls had run out and the cobbled streets lulled to siesta stillness I had earned a scarcely 
imaginable EUR20.05. I feasted on chorizo and ice cream. Then, on my way out of town, I was beckoned over to a 
street party outside a bar. I was fed chicken wings and beer and danced through the tipsy afternoon. My attempt to 
play a duet with the local guitarist was a predictable disaster, but the day was a triumph. I wove my way into the 
sunset, singing happily, feeling like Lee.
Every day I counted my earnings down to the last cent. My total income for the month was EUR125.40, ample for 
so many miles of memories. In shops I calculated fastidiously, focusing on the calorie-to-price ratio of foods rather 
than their taste appeal.
Despite this frugal existence, or perhaps because of it, I cannot remember when last I felt so self-contained, so sure 
about what I was doing, so content to be in the moment. Every time I played, every time I headed back up into the 
hills with a loaf of bread sticking out of my rucksack, I felt incredibly happy. I whistled Guantanamera (one of my five 
busking tunes) and stamped the rhythm with my hiking poles. I treasured the gift of time as I walked through the 
slow summer.
The journey was primarily a solitary experience. I spent day after day on footpaths far from anyone, and even 
accidentally strolled through the high security grounds of the Royal Palace of El Pardo, near Madrid, for a few 
hours. With hindsight my trespass seems obvious, but at the time I thought nothing of it as I climbed a high stone 
wall in order to cross what looked merely like a tantalising expanse of open countryside on my map (the guard who 
eventually spotted me was too surprised to be particularly angry). Above all, standing in a busy street where nobody 
knows your name, playing the same songs very badly in hope of a coin for your supper, is an extremely lonely place 
to be.
Yet the loneliness made the encounters and conversations along the way all the richer. An elderly gentleman sat 
me down on a bench and mused that my journey was akin to the board game La Oca, similar to Snakes and 
Ladders, rolling my dice and taking my chances as I went along my way. One morning I accompanied a postman, 
Marcelino, on his morning round, delivering letters and chatting in the street. He treated me to an espresso at noon.
One evening I was invited to sleep indoors, the only night of the whole trip. Sergio bumped into me just after sunset 
in the quiet village of Matapozuelos, an island amid a flat sea of farmland. A seasoned traveller himself, Sergio was 
excited to hear my story and knew well the impact of kindness on a lonely soul in a foreign land. I accepted 
gratefully - a shower! a bed! - and followed him to his home. Sergio lived with his mother, who was taken aback by 
the dirty vagabond on the doorstep. She fussed that the spare room I would stay in was not sufficiently prepared. It 
was perfect, of course. She studied, unimpressed, the sewing repairs that I had made on my shirt. And then she 
proceeded to fuss over me, mother me and force-feed me terrific quantities of delicious food.
After the disappointment of beautiful Segovia, where the foreign tourists ignored my busking efforts beneath the 
Roman aqueduct and the police moved me on for the only time in the trip, I climbed up into the glory of the Sierra 
de Guadarrama mountains. The sun set to the sound of cowbells and the scent of crushed thyme as I walked a 
Roman road up meadows dotted with oak trees.
"A green haze of pine-dust floated in shafts of sunlight and squirrels swung and chattered above me," wrote Lee as 
he climbed these same hills. "Gulping the fine dry air and sniffing the pitch-pine mountain I was perhaps never so 
alive and so alone again."
My midsummer morning
Cresting the rocky mountain escarpment, I followed the Río Manzanares down from its source, galloping down a 
grassy bowl of a valley and swimming in deep, clear pools. It was a beautiful end to the wilderness. I would follow 
this river all the way to the capital, only a couple of days' from here. I savoured the silence of these final few days, 
waking at dawn in forests with the evening cicadas all gone. I would pack up, leave no trace, and be hours down 
the path before first speaking a word.
Arriving at last in the baking heart of Madrid I shrugged off my sweaty rucksack for the final time, flopping down in a 
shaded pavement café. The crowds, the traffic, the heat of the tall avenues all felt unsettling. After a month on the 
road, this was my end. I asked the waiter the cost of a pint. He told me and I headed out to the nearest plaza to 
perform for the final time. Returning to the café with sufficient money I ordered a small celebratory beer.
The first sip exploded in my mouth like frosted stars. I had earned that beer. I truly savoured it. I left the remainder 
of my coins on the bar as a tip, my own small gesture of goodwill to a stranger. I had begun with nothing; I ended 
with nothing.
Part of me wished that my journey could continue for months like Lee's did. But now that I knew I could busk my 
way across a country, I did not need to keep doing it. Now that it had become just a delightful way of life it was no 
longer a challenge. The purpose of this walk had been the unknowing, the uncertainty and the risk. My summer with 
Laurie Lee had been my most challenging, fresh and surprising adventure in years.
Load-Date: December 23, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair to start operating from Ben Gurion Airport
Ryanair to start operating from Ben Gurion Airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
December 23, 2016 Friday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 220 words
Highlight: Ryanair Holdings plc has announced its first Tel Aviv flights, with a new daily service to Paphos(Cyprus) 
starting March 2017, which will deliver 100,000 customers per annum at Ben Gurion Airport, Ryanair's second 
Israeli destination.
Body
From March, Ryanair&#39;s Tel Aviv schedule will deliver: 1 new route to Paphos (daily); 7 weekly flights; 100,000 
customer&#39;s p.a.Ryanair celebrated its new Tel Aviv flights by releasing seats to Paphos for sale at prices 
starting from just E28.99 for travel in April and May, which are available for booking until midnight Monday, 
December 26, 2016.Ryanair&#39;s Chief Commercial Officer, David O&#39;Brien said: "Ryanair is pleased to 
announce that low fares have arrived in Tel Aviv, our 2nd Israeli airport, with a new daily route to Paphos 
commencing on 28th March, which will help deliver 100,000 annual customers at Ben Gurion Airport. Our Paphos 
route will be ideal for both families and leisure customers."Ryanair customers can look forward to even lower fares 
when they make advance bookings for summer 2017, so there&#39;s never been a better time to book a low fare 
flight on Ryanair and we urge all customers who wish to book their summer 2017 holidays to do so now on the 
Ryanair.com website."To celebrate our new Tel Aviv route, we are releasing seats to Paphos for sale from just 
E28.99 for travel in April and May, which are available for booking until midnight Monday (26 Dec). Since these 
amazing low prices will be snapped up quickly, customers should log onto 
www.ryanair.com and avoid missing out."
Load-Date: December 29, 2016
End of Document
Aer Lingus / Ryanair ECJ state aid bill
Aer Lingus/Ryanair; ECJ state aid bill
Financial Times (London, England)
December 22, 2016 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 19
Length: 269 words
Byline: Vincent Boland
Body
er Lingus and Ryanair face a combined bill of at least EUR16m after the European Court of Justice yesterday ruled 
that they had benefited from illegal state aid.
The ECJ said the two airlines had obtained state aid after the Irish government introduced a controversial air travel 
tax in 2009, at the height of the financial crisis.
The government said airlines would pay EUR2 per passenger on short-haul flights operated from Dublin, but 
EUR10 on long-haul flights.
The ECJ concluded the EUR8 differential constituted illegal state aid, and must be paid by the airlines to the 
government.
Ryanair said it faced a bill of EUR12m as a result of the ECJ judgment, while Aer Lingus estimated it would have to 
pay EUR4m.
The airlines said they would pursue the Irish government for damages incurred in having to pay what they said was 
an "illegal" tax.
Aer Lingus / Ryanair ECJ state aid bill
Ryanair said: "This ruling now clears the way for Ryanair (and other airlines) to pursue our High Court action 
against the Irish government to recover the EUR88m of damages we suffered as a result of being forced to pay this 
illegal tax."
Aer Lingus, owned by International Airlines Group, said it was studying the ECJ judgment and that it was seeking 
"substantial damages" from the Irish government "for losses flowing from the infringement of EU rules on free 
movement of services arising from the air travel tax".
Ryanair and Aer Lingus opposed the introduction of the tax, saying it damaged the travel sector and hurt their 
businesses.
The tax was introduced seven years ago as Ireland faced a financial crunch after the collapse of much of its 
banking sector.
Vincent Boland
Load-Date: December 21, 2016
End of Document
Thursday Papers: May under fire after Deloitte pulls out of bids
Thursday Papers: May under fire after Deloitte pulls out of bids
Citywire
December 22, 2016 Thursday 3:35 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 918 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And Italy to bailout Monte dei Paschi di Siena bank with €20 billion rescue fund.
Body
Top stories
•
Financial Times: Theresa May’s leadership style has come under renewed criticism after Deloitte, the 
professional services firm, withdrew from bidding for government contracts in penance for a leaked memo 
on Brexit written by one of its consultants. 
•
The Guardian: A €20 billion (£17 billion) rescue fund for Italy’s banking sector has been approved by the 
country’s parliament, heralding a bailout of the world’s oldest bank, Monte dei Paschi di Siena (MPS). 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Philip Hammond received a pre-Christmas boost on Wednesday as official figures 
showed public borrowing fell to its lowest November level since before the financial crisis. 
•
Financial Times: Goldman Sachs has been rapped by the US derivatives regulator and ordered to pay a 
fine of $120 million over claims that its traders tried to rig a vital benchmark in the $300 trillion market for 
interest-rate swaps. 
Business and economics
•
Financial Times: The UK’s Competition watchdog is investigating whether Britain’s funfairs are run under 
anti-competitive rules that are depriving millions of amusement-seekers of better rides and attractions. 
•
The Times: British car production accelerated to its highest level in 17 years in November amid rising 
domestic and international demand. 
•
The Guardian: BP has finally officially withdrawn its application to drill for oil in the pristine Great Australian 
Bight, ending months of uncertainty after it announced it was not pursuing the project but then did not 
withdraw its application. 
•
The Guardian: Rolls-Royce sold equipment to Iran for decades, a confidential company memo reveals, 
exploiting a series of loopholes in US sanctions to avoid breaking the law. 
•
The Times: Ryanair and Aer Lingus face a bill of up to €16 million (£13.48 million) after the European Court 
of Justice upheld a ruling that the structure of a former Irish tax amounted to illegal state aid. 
Thursday Papers: May under fire after Deloitte pulls out of bids
•
The Guardian: Royal Bank of Scotland and Barclays are among banks hit with SFr99 million (£78 million) 
of fines by the Swiss competition regulator for operating four separate cartels, as the international fallout 
from the Libor rate-rigging scandal spreads. 
•
Financial Times: Spain’s banking sector suffered an unexpected blow on Wednesday when the European 
Court of Justice ordered lenders to hand back to their clients all the money they made on “unfair” mortgage 
floor clauses. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: The Crown Estate has pushed the button on plans to build a £100 million office and 
retail block in London’s West End, having put the scheme on hold in the wake of the referendum on EU 
membership in June. 
•
Daily Mail: Booming basketball sales helped sportswear retailer Nike slam-dunk profitsas its profits in the 
three months to November rose 7.3% to £681 million while sales jumped 6.4% to £6.6 billion. 
•
Financial Times: Cath Kidston, the British fashion label, has reported its best start to a financial year on the 
back of strong international sales, but said full-year profits were hit by problems with the reintegration of its 
Japanese business. 
•
The Times: Small shops are beginning to experience the fallout of Brexit, with inflation and slowing sales 
growth resulting in “significant stress” for the finances of retailers, Begbies Traynor has warned. 
•
Financial Times: Brazilian conglomerate Odebrecht and its petrochemicals unit Braskem on Wednesday 
pleaded guilty to violating US anti-bribery laws during the Petrobras scandal and agreed to pay fines 
totalling at least $3.5 billion. 
•
The Times: Mark Lyttleton, 45, a former portfolio manager at BlackRock, admitted using a Panamanian 
company registered in his wife’s name to place illegal trades in the shares of EnCore Oil and Cairn Energy 
after receiving secret information about forthcoming deals. 
•
The Guardian: Donald Trump added another billionaire to his presidential transition team on Wednesday: 
Carl Icahn, the 80-year-old activist shareholder and long-time friend who once helped Trump keep control 
of his troubled New Jersey casinos. 
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): BUY John Laing Infrastructure Fund; BUY IP Group; BUY Qinetiq. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Macquarie has snapped up a 50% stake in Dong Energy’s giant Race Bank offshore 
wind farm in a $1.6 billion deal which will also see the Australian investor take on part of the wind farm’s 
construction risk. 
•
The Times: Aquascutum, worn by the Queen Mother, Sophia Loren, Humphrey Bogart and Cary Grant, is 
to be bought by two buyers for $120 million, according to YGM Trading, its Hong Kong-based owner. It is 
unclear whether the deal heralds a break-up or the buyers will retain the business in its present form. 
•
The Times: Meggitt has sold its weapons training target provider to QinetiQ for £57.5 million. 
•
Financial Times: Johnson & Johnson has entered exclusive talks over a deal with Actelion, the Swiss 
biotech group, just a week after negotiations between the two drugmakers abruptly broke down. 
•
The Times (Comment): Hope for the best Brexit – but also prepare for a right royal fudge. 
•
The Times (Comment): It is difficult to escape a sense of trouble ahead for the global economy. 
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): China devaluation risk is rising as capital outflows reach danger level. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Tesla: new world hoarder. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Spanish banks: swing & hit. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): UK pension reform: one size fits no one. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Jefferies: inimitable bellwether. 
Thursday Papers: May under fire after Deloitte pulls out of bids
•
Financial Times (Lex): Tata Group: unmagical Mistry tour. 
Load-Date: December 22, 2016
End of Document
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Pharma Stocks Rally
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Pharma Stocks Rally
MT Newswires Live Briefs
December 21, 2016 Wednesday 10:33 AM EST
Copyright 2016 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 246 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.2% higher at 119.83 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Wednesday morning.
Pharmaceutical companies led the gainers in Continental Europe with Forward Pharma (FWP), a Danish 
biopharmaceutical company, and Cellectis (CLLS), a French genome engineering company, both 4.2% higher, 
followed by Oasmia Pharmaceuticals (OASM),  an Austria-based clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company and 
Nabriva Therapeutics, 4.1% and 2.4% higher, respectively. 
In the UK, gainers were led by by Motif Bio (MTFB), a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, 3.3% higher, 
followed by GW Pharmaceuticals (GWPH), up by 1.4% and Amarin (AMRN), 1.3% higher. BP (BP), an oil and gas 
production company, was up by 1.0%. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Advanced Accelorator Applications (AAAP), a radiopharmaceutical 
company, 4.7% lower, followed by Edap (EDAP),  a French medical devices developer, down by 2.4% and Talend 
(TLND), a provider of open source integration solutions, down by 2.3% and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria 
(BBVA), a Spanish financial group, 1.8% lower.
And, in the UK, Midatech (MTP), an early-stage biopharmaceutical company, was 3.5% lower, followed by 
diversified mining company BHP Billiton (BBL), down by 0.8% and Trinity Biotech (TRIB), a manufacturer of medical 
diagnostic products, 0.7% lower. Low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY), down by 0.6%.
Price: 15.75, Change: +0.64, Percent Change: +4.24
Load-Date: December 22, 2016
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Pharma Stocks Rally
End of Document
Ryanair and Aer Lingus face tax bill after EU court ruling on state aid
Ryanair and Aer Lingus face tax bill after EU court ruling on state aid
Business World (Digest)
December 21, 2016 Wednesday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 304 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair and Aer Lingus face paying back millions of euros in air travel taxes after the European Court of Justice 
ruled on Wednesday that they had benefited from unlawful aid from the Irish government.
Ryanair, Europe's largest budget airline, said the ruling would require it to repay 12 million euros to the Irish 
government, but also said airlines would be able to take legal action to claim compensation from the government 
over the tax.
Aer Lingus, which is part of International Airlines Group , said Ireland was seeking 4 million euros, but that this 
figure was being contested.
The European Court of Justice upheld a decision by the European Commission in 2011 that lower air tax rates in 
Ireland for shorter flights, including on some services to Britain, between 2009 and 2011 were illegal subsidies.
Ryanair and Aer Lingus went to the court in Luxembourg after the Commission said Ireland was wrong to set air tax 
on short-haul flights at 8 euros lower per passenger than on longer flights as it disproportionately benefited Irish 
carriers who flew more short routes.
"The advantage in question did not consist in the fact that those airlines were able to offer more competitive prices 
than their competitors," the Court said in a statement.
"It resulted quite simply from the fact that those companies had to pay a lower amount than they would have had to 
pay if their flights had been subject to the standard rate."
Ryanair and Aer Lingus face tax bill after EU court ruling on state aid
Ireland modified its air travel tax in 2011 to a flat rate for all flights, domestic and international, following the 
Commission's investigation.
Ryanair in an emailed statement said Wednesday's ruling cleared the way for legal action by airlines to recover 88 
million euros from the Irish government for the imposition of what it described as an illegal tax. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: January 6, 2017
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Position Increased by Ameriprise Financial Inc.
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Position Increased by Ameriprise Financial 
Inc.
DailyPolitical
December 19, 2016 Monday 4:16 PM EST
Copyright 2016 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 756 words
Byline: Jeff Wilder
Body
Dec 19, 2016( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Ameriprise Financial Inc. 
increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 8.3% during the third quarter, according to its 
most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The institutional investor owned 1,214,073 
shares of the company's stock after buying an additional 93,349 shares during the period. 
Ameriprise Financial Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were worth $91,050,000 as of its most recent SEC 
filing.  Other hedge funds and other institutional investors also recently bought and sold shares of the company. 
Rothschild Asset Management Inc. boosted its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 13.0% in the second quarter. 
Rothschild Asset Management Inc. now owns 5,653 shares of the company's stock valued at $393,000 after buying 
an additional 652 shares in the last quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC boosted its stake in Ryanair Holdings 
PLC by 8.2% in the second quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now owns 294,137 shares of the company's 
stock valued at $20,454,000 after buying an additional 22,361 shares in the last quarter. Hussman Strategic 
Advisors Inc. boosted its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 50.0% in the second quarter. Hussman Strategic 
Advisors Inc. now owns 75,000 shares of the company's stock valued at $5,216,000 after buying an additional 
25,000 shares in the last quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. boosted its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the 
second quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. now owns 1,616 shares of the company's stock valued at $113,000 after 
buying an additional 15 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Herndon Capital Management LLC acquired a new stake 
in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the second quarter valued at about $501,000. 42.75% of the stock is currently 
owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors. Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) opened at 
83.84 on Monday. The stock has a market cap of $20766.75 billion, a PE ratio of 13.08 and a beta of 0.82. Ryanair 
Holdings PLC has a 12-month low of $66.09 and a 12-month high of $89.67. The firm's 50-day moving average 
price is $81.30 and its 200 day moving average price is $75.86.   http://www.dailypolitical.com/2016/12/19/ryanair-
holdings-plc-ryaay-position-increased-by-ameriprise-financial-inc.html.   Several research firms recently issued 
reports on RYAAY. Zacks Investment Research upgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'sell' rating to a 'hold' rating 
in a research report on Tuesday, December 13th. BNP Paribas began coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a 
research report on Thursday, October 13th. They set an 'outperform' rating for the company. Beaufort Securities 
reiterated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Wednesday, October 5th. 
Deutsche Bank AG cut Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a report on Wednesday, 
September 7th. Finally, Berenberg Bank started coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a report on Friday, 
November 11th. They set a 'buy' rating for the company. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Position Increased by Ameriprise Financial Inc.
hold rating and four have given a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock presently has an average rating of 
'Hold' and a consensus price target of $89.50. About Ryanair Holdings PLC Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair 
Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-
passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental 
Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected 
with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-
flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to 
receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related 
companies 
with 
MarketBeat.com's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[3]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: December 19, 2016
End of Document
CITY MOVES WHO'S SWITCHING JOBS
CITY MOVES WHO'S SWITCHING JOBS
City A.M.
December 15, 2016 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 18
Length: 395 words
Body
THE INSTANT GROUP John Duckworth has been appointed managing director of The Instant Group, responsible 
for all sales and business operations in the UK and EMEA region. An experienced real estate executive, John joins 
from JLL where he was a member of the UK board and, among other responsibilities, ran its corporate services 
business. In his 18 years at the company John worked across the EMEA market in a number of roles, starting with 
the tenant representation team in Paris and ultimately becoming managing director for JLL Central & Eastern 
Europe, based in Warsaw.
WILLIS TOWERS WATSON Willis Towers Watson has appointed Mary O'Connor to lead the client and business 
development function. Mary also continues to co-lead the global financial institutions industry group. Mary will report 
to head of Great Britain, Nicolas Aubert, and global industries lead, Eric Speer. Reflecting the significance of clients 
to the success of the organisation, Mary will also have a seat on the boards of Willis Limited and Towers Watson 
Limited, subject to regulatory approval. Mary was also the co-lead for the global financial lines business in corporate 
risk and broking with Alexis Faber. Going forward, Alexis will assume sole leadership for this global business.
STOBART GROUP Stobart Group has appointed Warwick Brady as deputy group CEO. It is intended that Warwick 
will join the board following the Group's annual general meeting in June 2017. Warwick was chief operating officer 
of EasyJet until 30 September 2016 and has extensive commercial and management experience. Previously, he 
was also CEO at Mandala Airlines in Asia and spent two years as chief operating officer of Air Deccan/Kingfisher in 
India. Prior to that, Warwick was deputy operations director at Ryanair from 2002 to 2005, where he held various 
senior executive roles including deputy CEO of Buzz, following its acquisition from KLM.
MORNINGSTAR INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT EUROPE Morningstar Investment Management Europe has 
appointed Gavin Corr to the role of director, responsible for key client relationships for the company's investment 
management business in the UK and Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) region. Gavin has over 25 years of 
CITY MOVES WHO'S SWITCHING JOBS
financial services experience, managing high-profile and highly rated institutional pension funds, in addition to retail 
unit trusts and US-based mutual funds.
Load-Date: December 15, 2016
End of Document
Fernandes displays streamlined vision AirAsia boss plays down fears that changes to group will weaken brand, 
but sale of leasing arm may have consequences
Fernandes displays streamlined vision; AirAsia boss plays down fears that 
changes to group will weaken brand, but sale of leasing arm may have 
consequences
Flight International
December 13, 2016
Copyright 2016 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS FOCUS
Length: 858 words
Body
Buried in AirAsia Group’s recent third-quarter results were several items that have broad implications for the 
business’s future.
In two short paragraphs, the carrier group disclosed plans to sell off its aircraft leasing arm Asia Aviation Capital 
(AAC), and to float two of its other operations, all in 2017.
Group chief executive Tony Fernandes says this is part of his plan “to streamline the business and dispose of non-
core businesses”; if all goes according to plan, 2017 could prove to be a milestone year.
In a recent televised interview, Fernandes dismissed concerns that AirAsia Group’s strategy could dilute the 
company.
“Absolutely not. You don’t get EasyJet or Ryanair operating all over Europe having their brand diluted. If anything, 
it’s stronger. It’s creating a single economic vehicle that allows analysts and investors to see the group as a whole – 
not just as a Malaysian operation with one airline and its associates.”
Fernandes was specifically referring to plans to list its ASEAN-area operations holding company, the imaginatively 
titled ASEAN Holding Co, on the Hong Kong stock exchange.
Hong Kong was selected, he says, for two reasons: to prepare for a time when the southeast Asian trade bloc 
moves towards “one common market”, and to raise the group’s profile in North Asia, as its business has also 
“gravitated towards” that region.
Before that, however, the group will have to focus on turning around the performance at affiliates Indonesia AirAsia 
and Philippines AirAsia, which are also due to undergo initial public offerings (IPOs) in 2017.
Fernandes displays streamlined vision AirAsia boss plays down fears that changes to group will weaken brand, 
but sale of leasing arm may have consequences
Its other planned listing is of its flightcrew training centre, AirAsia Academy, on the Malaysian exchange.
Aaron Kee, an equity research analyst at Affin Hwang Capital, sees the IPOs as a natural step, as the AirAsia 
Group did “moderately well” during the quarter ended 30 September.
“The IPOs will help each unit realise its individual value, and allow for price discovery. The management believes 
that profitability can be sustained, especially for its Indonesian and Philippines businesses, and that turnarounds for 
the two could happen soon.”
Kee thinks the IPOs are not designed to raise capital, since an imminent MYR1.02 billion ($230 million) cash 
infusion into AirAsia Group by co-founders Fernandes and Kamarudin Meranun, as well as the sale of AAC, will 
leave it with “ample” funds.
“The intention is to raise the profile of each unit that will come under ASEAN Holding Co, with the main Malaysia 
operations still listed on Bursa Malaysia,” he says.
The money received from any share issue is expected to help reduce Fernandes’ and Kamarudin’s personal debts, 
as well as the company’s working capital borrowings. More importantly, it could fund the group’s expansion into 
China, says Kee.
In June, a new North Asia president was appointed: Kathleen Tan, the former chief executive of AirAsia Expedia, 
has been tasked with building AirAsia Group’s business in greater China, Japan and South Korea.
Others, however, see the announcements as part of arch-publicist Fernandes’ efforts to drum up interest in a 
flagging operation.
Maybank Investment Bank analyst Mohshin Aziz believes it is still too early for investors to get excited about the 
IPOs, pointing out that AirAsia Group first broached the idea two years ago. “At present, it is all rhetoric. Yes, it’s 
definitely part of the long-term plan, but I’m not going to get excited about it just yet,” he says.
Aziz says that the equity market is “just another opportunity” for the group to expand its financing options. Airlines 
today “need as much money as they can get if they want to stand a chance of surviving,” he notes.
AirAsia Group attributed its improved third-quarter performance in part to a revenue boost led by an increase in 
aircraft operating lease income. AAC more than doubled revenue compared with the same quarter last year, to $66 
million.
Aziz says, however, that when the cost of running AAC is factored in, its net profit margin is lower than that of 
AirAsia’s airline businesses.
Kee, meanwhile, believes the leasing business has evolved into “a $1 billion carrot that is too good to pass up”.
Both analysts, however, agree that there will be repercussions from the sale of AAC and that in contrast the group 
would benefit from keeping the leasing arm in-house over the longer term.
While selling AAC will give AirAsia Group and its owners a massive one-off cash windfall, the slimmed-down parent 
company will no longer enjoy the same economies of scale, especially in sourcing parts and corporate financing.
And once AAC is under outside ownership, there will be nothing to stop it from looking after its own bottom line first, 
leaving the provision of a guaranteed supply of aircraft to AirAsia Group as a secondary consideration.
Airline chief and serial self-publicist has a pan-Asian strategy in mind
REX/Shutterstock
“It’s creating a single
Fernandes displays streamlined vision AirAsia boss plays down fears that changes to group will weaken brand, 
but sale of leasing arm may have consequences
economic vehicle that
allows analysts and
investors to see the
group as a whole”
Tony Fernandes
Chief executive, AirAsia Group
“Yes, it’s definitely
part of the long-term
plan, but I’m not going
to get excited about
it just yet”
Mohshin Aziz
Analyst, Maybank Investment Bank
Load-Date: December 19, 2016
End of Document
Village Vic back to pitch his tent at Cheltenham RACING TRADER ; Bill Esdaile previews the best of the action 
from Cheltenham and Sha Tin
Village Vic back to pitch his tent at Cheltenham; RACING TRADER ; Bill 
Esdaile previews the best of the action from Cheltenham and Sha Tin
City A.M.
December 9, 2016 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: SPORT; Pg. 39
Length: 537 words
Body
WHEN the rain finally arrived a month ago in time for Cheltenham's Open meeting, trainers breathed a sigh of relief 
at the prospect of some proper winter jumping conditions.
Yet, just four weeks on and clerk of the course Simon Claisse has been forced to turn on the taps to maintain 
decent ground.
It's been a bizarrely dry winter which means tomorrow's Caspian Caviar Gold Cup (1.50pm) is going to be a totally 
different kind of test to normal.
The best trial for this race has always been the BetVictor Gold Cup and four of the first five are set to line-up again 
tomorrow.
The winner, Taquin De Seuil, is missing on account of the ground but, despite the burden of top weight, I'm going to 
side with VILLAGE VIC who was only just touched off last month.
Philip Hobbs' nine-year-old was a hugely impressive winner of this race 12 months ago and then followed up over 
course and distance on New Year's Day.
He was put in his place by Vautour in the Ryanair, but that was at the end of a hard season and I thought he ran an 
extraordinary race on his come-back.
The type of jumper who puts his rivals to the sword at every fence with his aggressive front-running tactics, he was 
really unlucky to get caught near the line.
Village Vic back to pitch his tent at Cheltenham RACING TRADER ; Bill Esdaile previews the best of the action 
from Cheltenham and Sha Tin
Although he's now far higher in the weights than last year, he's such a solid and consistent horse that you know 
you'll get a decent run for your money.
Bouvreuil looks by far the biggest danger after a respectable fifth in the same race last month. He ran well on a 
number of occasions last season and loves decent ground.
I've no doubt that he's well-handicapped, but his price disintegrated earlier in the week and I'd rather back Village 
Vic each-way at 7/1 with Betway.
There is a dearth of top class two mile hurdlers in the UK at the moment, so there is a decidedly openlooking feel to 
the Stan James International Hurdle (3.00pm).
Final declarations won't be known until later this morning, but I suggest you back MY TENT OR YOURS at 13/8.
The conditions of the race massively favour Nicky Henderson's nine-year-old and on three visits to Cheltenham he's 
finished second in two Champion Hurdles and a Supreme Novices' Hurdle.
Don't read too much into Haydock last time, he was never going to handle that ground. He's the class horse in the 
race, has his ideal conditions and gets weight from all of his rivals.
It was a shame that WHOLESTONE didn't get the job done here last month, but compensation awaits in the Albert 
Bartlett Novices' Hurdle (2.25pm).
Nigel Twiston-Davies' inmate will relish the step back up in trip and is strongly fancied to see off regular rival West 
Approach.
There is some competitive action at Cheltenham this afternoon where the highlight is the Unicoin Group Handicap 
Chase (1.30pm).
I like the look of Tom George's A GOOD SKIN who has some excellent course and distance form, including a 
handicap win in April 2015 and a second in this year's Kim Muir.
The ground is perfect and he should be backed at 15/2 with Betway, who are giving money back as a free bet if 
your horse finishes second in all Channel 4 races today.
POINTERS A Good Skin e/w 1.30pm Cheltenham (Fri) Village Vic e/w 1.50pm Cheltenham (Sat) Wholestone 
2.25pm Cheltenham (Sat) My Tent Or Yours 3.00pm Cheltenham (Sat)
Graphic
 
Village Vic can become only the second dual winner of the Caspian Caviar Gold Cup
Load-Date: December 9, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair adds new Zadar route to Bristol summer 2017 schedule
Ryanair adds new Zadar route to Bristol summer 2017 schedule
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
December 7, 2016 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 408 words
Highlight: Ryanair Ltd. has added a new Zadar route to its Bristol summer 2017 schedule, with a twice weekly 
service beginning at the end of March 2017, which will help deliver over 1.7 million customers p.a. at Bristol airport.
Body
Ryanair&#39;s Bristol summer 2017 schedule includes 31 exciting destinations in total, lower fares (as Ryanair 
passes on lower fuel costs), and an even better customer experience, as it rolls out year 3 of its "Always Getting 
Better" customer experience programme, and will deliver: 1 new route toZadar; New summer services to Bucharest 
(2 x weekly) & Venice Marco Polo (4 x weekly); 31 routes in total; 125 weekly flights; and Over 1.7m customers 
p.a.Ryanair will continue to connect Bristol with popular sun destinations on low fare services including Alicante (10 
weekly), Malaga (8 weekly) and Palma (10 weekly), with better timings and lower fares, making Ryanair the ideal 
choice for UK customers.Ryanair&#39;s Robin Kiely said: "We are pleased to add a new Zadar route to our Bristol 
summer 2017 schedule, which will operate twice weekly from the end of March. Our Bristol summer 2017 schedule 
includes 31 routes in total, including new summer routes to Bucharest and Venice Marco Polo and extra flights to 
Warsaw, which will deliver over 1.7m customers p.a. and support 1,300 jobs at Bristol Airport."Customers can look 
forward to even lower fares when they make advance bookings for summer 2017, so there&#39;s never been a 
better time to book a low fare flight on Ryanair and we urge all customers who wish to book their summer 2017 
holidays to do so now on the Ryanair.com website, where they can avail of the lowest fare air travel to and from 
Bristol. 
"Fares on our new Bristol to Zadar route are on sale now from just GBP24.99 for travel in April and can be booked 
on the Ryanair.com website until midnight Thursday (8 Dec). Since these amazing low prices will be snapped up 
quickly, customers should log onto www.ryanair.com and book a low fare Zadar trip."Peter Downes, Bristol Airport 
said: "We are delighted with the announcement of the new Zadar route commencing from Bristol Airport from 
summer 2017. This destination takes the Ryanair network at Bristol to over 30 routes, offering customers in the 
South West and Wales more choice than ever before."Croatia is one of our fastest-growing country markets, and I 
am sure the addition of this new route will be a great success as customers living in our region seek new and 
exciting destinations to visit next year. Similarly, the addition of Zadar will continue to put the South West on the 
map for international visitors looking to experience everything the region has to offer."
Ryanair adds new Zadar route to Bristol summer 2017 schedule
Load-Date: December 13, 2016
End of Document
Are Ryanair 's package holiday ambitions all set for take off?
Are Ryanair's package holiday ambitions all set for take off?
City A.M.
December 7, 2016 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 378 words
Byline: Stephan Shakespeare
Body
UDGET airline Ryanair is set to sell package holidays alongside its flights, placing it in direct competition with tour 
operators.
BThe company wants to reposition itself - from a business known for cheap flights to a broader leisure offering, all 
while undercutting its rivals.
YouGov data shows that among those that would consider using Ryanair in the future, two thirds (67 per cent) 
booked accommodation and travel separately on their last holiday, suggesting a sizable majority may need to be 
convinced a package booking's benefits. However, around a quarter (24 per cent) booked their vacation as a 
package deal, indicating that there is already an existing market they can target.
Among those that already book package holidays, the brand's challenge is to provide an alternative to established 
rivals. When it comes to those that don't ordinarily consider package deals, they need to persuade them to give it a 
try though competitive prices. Ryanair will need to target consumers that book package holidays. Our data indicates 
that those in this group are more likely than the rest of the population to be aged over 55, followed closely by those 
in the 45-54 age group.
Naturally, Ryanair is expected to undertake a fairly extensive marketing campaign to raise awareness of its new 
offering. Profiles data also enables us to see what type of advertising works well among package holiday users. 
They are more likely than the average to enjoy adverts containing their favourite celebrities (31 per cent vs. 26 per 
cent of the general population), while they are also more likely to notice adverts on posters or billboards (36 per 
cent vs. 32 per cent). YouGov BrandIndex data indicates that, on the whole, consumer perception of Ryanair is 
improving. Among all respondents, its purchase consideration score (that measures whether someone would think 
about buying from the brand) is four points higher than this time last year.
Are Ryanair 's package holiday ambitions all set for take off?
Taking all of this into account, it seems that existing tour operators should take Ryanair's move very seriously. 
Despite some consumers' reservations, the brand continues to attract customers that want cheap travel. Putting all 
of their needs in one place is another way of offering that.
£ Stephan Shakespeare is the chief executive of YouGov
Load-Date: December 7, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair to carry six million customers over Christmas and New Year
Ryanair to carry six million customers over Christmas and New Year
Business World (Digest)
December 07, 2016 Wednesday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 101 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair will carry over six million customers between 18 December and 7 January across its European network 
with 1.1 million extra seats added for people flying home for the holiday season.
Ryanair flights will operate up to 16.30hrs (GMT) on Christmas Eve, resuming at 08.15hrs (GMT) on St. Stephen’s 
Day, while Friday, 23rd December will be the busiest day of festive flying with over 1,950 Ryanair flights scheduled.
Thirty six percent of customers surveyed booked a winter getaway this year with Tenerife as the most popular 
destination followed by Milan, Warsaw and Brussels.   Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 16, 2016
End of Document
Norwegian Air to start flying to US from Ireland
Norwegian Air to start flying to US from Ireland
Business World (Digest)
December 06, 2016 Tuesday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 416 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Budget carrier Norwegian Air Shuttle plans to order more aircraft from Boeing and Airbus after its Irish subsidiary 
received long-awaited flying rights from U.S. authorities, its Chief Executive told Reuters.
After a three-year application process, the U.S. Transportation Department granted those rights on Friday, setting 
the stage for a new battle among airlines for leisure travellers across the Atlantic.
"There is no doubt we'll need even more planes after this," Bjoern Kjos said in an interview on Monday, adding that 
he expected the airline to place orders from both Airbus and Boeing.
Norwegian Air is working on new transatlantic routes from Irish cities like Cork, Dublin and Shannon, and plans to 
double its staff in the United States, he said.
"We expect to start flying from Cork and Dublin already next summer with at least four weekly routes," said Kjos.
"But there, we expect to add more routes, both from Shannon and also from some cities in Scotland."
Shares in Norwegian Air surged 12.4 percent by 1146 GMT on Monday in reaction to the ruling. It gives the carrier's 
Irish-based international arm the right to fly to the United States, and benefit from the European Union's aviation 
agreement with the United States, which is much more comprehensive than Norway's.
Kjos said he now expected the Norwegian low-cost carrier to open several new bases in the United States, with 
staff using such locations as their home base, in the coming years.
Norwegian Air to start flying to US from Ireland
"We will now start working on establishing bases in Los Angeles and San Francisco. LA will most likely be in place 
in 2018 and hopefully San Francisco as well," said Kjos.
The airline expects to double the number of employees in the United States to over 2,000 in 2018, he said.
Last week Ryanair said it was in talks with Norwegian Air about feeding passengers into Norwegian's long-haul 
flights from large cities in Britain. Kjos said the decision from U.S. authorities on Friday makes these talks even 
more relevant.
"We are in talks with Ryanair right now where we are looking at the technical solutions. We hope to have a deal in 
place sometime next year", said Kjos.
"After that we would like similar deals with EasyJet and other airlines who want a cooperation", said Kjos.
Kjos said Norwegian would use European and U.S. crew on these routes, depending on where the hubs are.
"We will create a lot of jobs in the U.S. and we will fly in a lot of tourists who will spend a lot of money over there." 
(Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: December 15, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings November Traffic Increases 15%
Ryanair Holdings November Traffic Increases 15%
MT Newswires Live Briefs
December 5, 2016 Monday 5:28 AM EST
Copyright 2016 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 47 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) said Monday that traffic in November grew by 15% to 8.8 million customers while the 
load factor was higher by two percentage points at 95%. 
The rolling annual traffic to November grew 16% to 115.5 million customers. 
Price: 80.67, Change: , Percent Change: 
Load-Date: December 6, 2016
End of Document
Think twice before picking Uber as a business model
Think twice before picking Uber as a business model
Financial Times (London, England)
December 5, 2016 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: ON MANAGEMENT; Pg. 16
Length: 779 words
Byline: Andrew Hill
Body
Electrolux's chief executive took a beating last week for his excitable comment that the white-goods company was 
testing the idea of "a laundry Uber , where people share their unused laundry time".
"Aside from anything else, why exactly would an equipment maker want people sharing their washing machines? 
Surely they prefer everyone to buy their own instead?" commented one Financial Times reader.
I also wanted to hang Jonas Samuelson out to dry. The phrase this is "the Uber for . . . " has worn as thin as a pair 
of much-laundered underpants. You do not have to search far to find an aspiring Uber for laundry in China - Edaixi - 
and a defunct one, Washio, in the US . In the past two years, we have reported on Ubers for water, private jets, 
drones, pot, rubbish and, indeed, "everything", not to mention an "Amazon for travel" ( Ryanair , since you ask) and 
an "Airbnb for migrants".
Stephan Chambers, former chair of Oxford's Skoll Centre for Social Entrepreneurship, got so fed up with hearing 
new ideas described this way that he outlawed the formula - along with the similarly tired vision of any unlikely 
technology hotspot as "the Silicon Valley of" wherever.
The Uber-for approach may help a few unimaginative venture capitalists picture a new business (or journalists 
describe them). Like the Hollywood movie pitch that shackles together two hits - "It's The Hunger Games meets The 
King's Speech !" - it may tempt some to dream of Uber-sized values for an as yet untested concept. But as a 
strategy template, it is distracting, derivative and limiting.
Think twice before picking Uber as a business model
So I am grateful to Mr Samuelson for stopping the spin cycle for corporate comparisons. But I also thank him for the 
reminder that companies must invent different ways of working, not just different things to sell.
Too often, innovation debates focus on new products, particularly ones with superior technology. But as Alexander 
Osterwalder , who devised the widely used "business model canvas" to help people frame their approach, points 
out, Nintendo's Wii shook up the games console industry with an inferior technology and a much better business 
model that attracted casual gamers and milked revenues from game licences.
"Competing on products was last century's competition; now you need to be able to compete on business model," 
Mr Osterwalder says. Even companies with long pedigrees of product innovation, such as Post-it note maker 3M, 
now realise they could squeeze even more from their business by re-examining the way they operate, too.
This is where an Uber-for provocation can come into its own. Mr Osterwalder uses Nespresso to prompt clients of 
Strategyzer, the consulting company he founded, to think about how they could shake up their systems. The coffee 
pods and machines were a product innovation for Nestlé, for sure, but they were also a new model, based on 
recurring revenue and direct sales.
Rethinking your business as though constrained by someone else's model, can also be fruitful. For example, what if 
you had to give away your most successful product? If only newspapers had brainstormed that idea before it came 
expensively - and, for many, catastrophically - true.
Even assuming you hit on an innovative new way of doing business, nobody can afford to stick with it forever. To 
some degree, this has always been true. Sears, the retailer, started as a mail-order company and only began 
building department stores when threatened by bricks-and-mortar retailers in the 1920s.
A century on, though, the pace at which companies have to reinvent themselves is far more rapid. Amazon - a 
Sears for the online age - is now experimenting with offline bookstores and grocery pick-up hubs . Those 
innovations are founded on the original "everything store". Amazon Web Services , more radically, has developed 
into the fastest-growing and most profitable part of the group, using the same technology but a different model for 
the sale of computing power in the cloud, on demand.
"We could have stuck to the knitting. I'm glad we didn't," Jeff Bezos, Amazon's founder, said in his most recent letter 
to shareholders , while lauding AWS for adopting the same customer-focused approach as the rest of the business.
As for Uber, it is a fast-developing study in the inadequacy of simply laying out an Uber-for future and sitting back. 
Since it launched as a car-sharing service, the group has branched out into parcel dispatch, food delivery and self-
driving tech. It is running an evolving portfolio of business models. Next time you are tempted to describe an idea as 
the Uber for anything, bear this in mind: Uber itself is no longer just "Uber for" the thing it was once Uber for.
Twitter: @andrewtghill 
Load-Date: December 8, 2016
End of Document
Think twice before picking Uber as a business model
Think twice before picking Uber as a business model
Financial Times (London, England)
December 5, 2016 Monday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: ON MANAGEMENT; Pg. 16
Length: 779 words
Byline: Andrew Hill
Body
Electrolux's chief executive took a beating last week for his excitable comment that the white-goods company was 
testing the idea of "a laundry Uber , where people share their unused laundry time".
"Aside from anything else, why exactly would an equipment maker want people sharing their washing machines? 
Surely they prefer everyone to buy their own instead?" commented one Financial Times reader.
I also wanted to hang Jonas Samuelson out to dry. The phrase this is "the Uber for . . . " has worn as thin as a pair 
of much-laundered underpants. You do not have to search far to find an aspiring Uber for laundry in China - Edaixi - 
and a defunct one, Washio, in the US . In the past two years, we have reported on Ubers for water, private jets, 
drones, pot, rubbish and, indeed, "everything", not to mention an "Amazon for travel" ( Ryanair , since you ask) and 
an "Airbnb for migrants".
Stephan Chambers, former chair of Oxford's Skoll Centre for Social Entrepreneurship, got so fed up with hearing 
new ideas described this way that he outlawed the formula - along with the similarly tired vision of any unlikely 
technology hotspot as "the Silicon Valley of" wherever.
The Uber-for approach may help a few unimaginative venture capitalists picture a new business (or journalists 
describe them). Like the Hollywood movie pitch that shackles together two hits - "It's The Hunger Games meets The 
King's Speech !" - it may tempt some to dream of Uber-sized values for an as yet untested concept. But as a 
strategy template, it is distracting, derivative and limiting.
Think twice before picking Uber as a business model
So I am grateful to Mr Samuelson for stopping the spin cycle for corporate comparisons. But I also thank him for the 
reminder that companies must invent different ways of working, not just different things to sell.
Too often, innovation debates focus on new products, particularly ones with superior technology. But as Alexander 
Osterwalder , who devised the widely used "business model canvas" to help people frame their approach, points 
out, Nintendo's Wii shook up the games console industry with an inferior technology and a much better business 
model that attracted casual gamers and milked revenues from game licences.
"Competing on products was last century's competition; now you need to be able to compete on business model," 
Mr Osterwalder says. Even companies with long pedigrees of product innovation, such as Post-it note maker 3M, 
now realise they could squeeze even more from their business by re-examining the way they operate, too.
This is where an Uber-for provocation can come into its own. Mr Osterwalder uses Nespresso to prompt clients of 
Strategyzer, the consulting company he founded, to think about how they could shake up their systems. The coffee 
pods and machines were a product innovation for Nestlé, for sure, but they were also a new model, based on 
recurring revenue and direct sales.
Rethinking your business as though constrained by someone else's model, can also be fruitful. For example, what if 
you had to give away your most successful product? If only newspapers had brainstormed that idea before it came 
expensively - and, for many, catastrophically - true.
Even assuming you hit on an innovative new way of doing business, nobody can afford to stick with it forever. To 
some degree, this has always been true. Sears, the retailer, started as a mail-order company and only began 
building department stores when threatened by bricks-and-mortar retailers in the 1920s.
A century on, though, the pace at which companies have to reinvent themselves is far more rapid. Amazon - a 
Sears for the online age - is now experimenting with offline bookstores and grocery pick-up hubs . Those 
innovations are founded on the original "everything store". Amazon Web Services , more radically, has developed 
into the fastest-growing and most profitable part of the group, using the same technology but a different model for 
the sale of computing power in the cloud, on demand.
"We could have stuck to the knitting. I'm glad we didn't," Jeff Bezos, Amazon's founder, said in his most recent letter 
to shareholders , while lauding AWS for adopting the same customer-focused approach as the rest of the business.
As for Uber, it is a fast-developing study in the inadequacy of simply laying out an Uber-for future and sitting back. 
Since it launched as a car-sharing service, the group has branched out into parcel dispatch, food delivery and self-
driving tech. It is running an evolving portfolio of business models. Next time you are tempted to describe an idea as 
the Uber for anything, bear this in mind: Uber itself is no longer just "Uber for" the thing it was once Uber for.
Twitter: @andrewtghill 
Load-Date: December 4, 2016
End of Document
BEST OF THE BROKERS
BEST OF THE BROKERS
City A.M.
December 5, 2016 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 23
Length: 129 words
Body
Soft drinks maker Britvic has been downgraded to "neutral" from "buy" by Goldman Sachs and had its price target 
slashed to 600p from 810p, removing the stock from its conviction list following full-year results. The impending 
sugar tax was one of the reasons Goldman analysts have turned sour on the stock, with rising concerns around the 
company's expected performance in the new year.
RBC Capital Markets cut its stance on EasyJet's stock to "underperform" from "sector perform" arguing that without 
material and significant improvement in pricing outlook in the next three years, EasyJet shares will struggle to return 
a meaningful compound annual growth rate, the analysts say. RBC also pointed out that EasyJet has a lower return 
on equity than peers Ryanair and Wizz Air.
Load-Date: December 5, 2016
End of Document
Friday Papers: EU citizens push UK immigration to record 650,000
Friday Papers: EU citizens push UK immigration to record 650,000
Citywire
December 2, 2016 Friday 3:29 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 1140 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And pound surges to eight-week high against dollar after Brexit minister hints at EU market access.
Body
Top stories
•
Financial Times: Immigration to Britain from the EU rose to a historic high in the run-up to the referendum 
in June, official figures have shown. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Pound surges to eight-week high against dollar after Brexit minister hints at EU 
market access. 
•
Daily Mail: UK households face higher shop prices, sluggish economic growth, rising unemployment and a 
further interest rate cut next year, US investment bank Morgan Stanley warns. 
•
The Guardian: Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz will resign from position for second time; the billionaire, 
who stepped down in 2000 before returning during 2008 financial crisis, said he will focus on tech and 
‘social impact agenda’ in new role. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: UBS has merged most of its wealth management operations into a new business in 
Frankfurt, in a significant boost to the German city as it seeks to establish itself as a rival financial hub to 
London following Brexit. 
Business and economics
•
Daily Express: Ryanair is transforming package holidays after launching a service combining flights with 
accommodation and transfers. 
•
Daily Mail: Nokia phoenix firm set up by former employees to release new smartphone early next year. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Britain's vote to leave the European Union has had no effect on the majority of 
shoppers’ Christmas spending plans, according to fresh figures. 
•
The Guardian: Ireland reports rise in relocation inquiries from UK-based finance firms; Dublin is vying with 
other cities including Frankfurt and Paris to lure banks and other UK companies concerned about Brexit. 
•
Financial Times: Donald Trump’s transition team has reassured AT&T that its $85.4 billion acquisition of 
Time Warner will be scrutinised without prejudice despite the president-elect vowing to block the deal 
because it concentrated too much “power in the hands of too few”. 
Friday Papers: EU citizens push UK immigration to record 650,000
•
The Daily Telegraph: BP is to invest in its biggest project in the Gulf of Mexico since it suffered the worst 
ever oil spill in its history in the region, after giving the go-ahead to spend $9 billion building a new platform 
in the Mad Dog oil field. 
•
Daily Mail: Bosses at online fashion store Asos have faced a backlash from shareholders over their 
proposed multi-million-pound pay packets. 
•
Financial Times: Airbnb, the online accommodation service, has agreed to restrict the number of nights 
that hosts can rent out their homes in London and Amsterdam â€” bowing to pressure from regulators in 
two key European markets. 
•
The Daily Telegraph: Britain should assume new powers after Brexit to impose conditions on takeovers 
that boost the Government’s developing industrial strategy, the chief executive of Ofcom has suggested. 
•
The Guardian: A new £310 million factory in Hull that makes wind turbine blades has been hailed by 
ministers as proof that manufacturing has a “glittering” future in the UK. 
•
The Guardian: British engineering company Rolls-Royce said it would cut a further 800 jobs in its marine 
business to save an extra £50 million a year, responding to weak demand from shipping and energy 
customers. 
•
The Guardian: Buy to let landlords are scrambling to avoid the impact of tax changes that come into effect 
next year, a report has found. 
•
Daily Mail: Shares in Daily Mail & General Trust rose today as it reported that advertising revenues across 
the group were starting to improve. 
•
Daily Express: Serco has secured a £600 million deal to manage facilities for Barts Health NHS Trust in 
London as it rebuilds after loss-making contracts and the prisoner tagging scandal. 
•
Financial Times: Dublin-based packaging group Smurfit Kappa is set to join the FTSE 100 index later this 
month. 
•
The Times: The Competition and Markets Authority said yesterday it would order the director 
disqualification for Daniel Aston, managing director of Trod, an online poster supplier, after it found that he 
had agreed with rivals selling through Amazon’s UK website not to undercut their prices. 
•
Financial Times: Centrica has promised to freeze power bills for British Gas customers on its standard tariff 
this winter despite the recent surge in wholesale energy prices. 
•
Financial Times: Spain’s Banco Popular bowed to mounting market pressure on Thursday, by ousting the 
veteran chairman who presided over the collapse in the bank’s share price and a recent string of missed 
profit targets. 
•
Daily Express: Glencore signalled its recovery from a commodity prices rout with plans to pay a $1 billion 
dividend in 2017. 
•
Daily Mail: For the first time in its 130-year history, beauty giant Avon is set to be run from the UK. 
•
The Times: Jamie Oliver’s Fifteen restaurant franchise in Amsterdam, in which he has no financial interest, 
has filed for bankruptcy after admitting it can no longer afford its €25,000 a month in rent and running up an 
unpaid rent bill of €225,000. 
•
The Times: The financial regulator has been seeking a rescuer for Manchester Building Society but has 
been turned down by Nationwide, Britain’s largest society. 
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): BUY Grainger; AVOID Serco; BUY McColl’s Retail Group. 
•
Financial Times: Fitbit is in advanced talks to acquire Pebble, the smartwatch pioneer and darling of 
crowdfunding site Kickstarter, according to several people close to the negotiations. 
Friday Papers: EU citizens push UK immigration to record 650,000
•
Daily Mail: TalkTalk dives as JP Morgan sparks fears customers are quitting after it was hacked in 2015. 
•
Financial Times: Maersk Line moved to shore up its position as the world’s largest container shipping 
group by agreeing to buy Hamburg SÃ¼d, the seventh-biggest operator. 
•
Financial Times: Strong car sales data for November boosted shares of Ford and General Motors on 
Thursday. 
•
Financial Times: A team led by Chinese conglomerate Citic Group Corp and US-based private equity 
house Carlyle has emerged as the final global group seeking to buy McDonald’s China franchise, a deal 
that could fetch between $2 billion-$3 billion. 
•
Financial Times: Kaupthing, the failed Icelandic bank, is looking to appoint bankers for a potential stock 
market flotation of its domestic lender Arion. 
•
Daily Mail: Speedy Hire was given a boost of confidence when its finance director bought 117,751 shares 
at 43p each. 
•
Daily Mail (Comment): The wheeler dealer miner who beat the odds while its rivals struggled. 
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): The housing crisis threatens the foundations of our society – but 
immigration is not to blame. 
•
The Times (Comment): Ivan goes from zero to hero. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Dollar General: chain must balance its growth ambitions with the pressure on its 
profitability. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Maersk/Hamburg SÃ¼d: latest deal will redistribute overcapacity rather than 
eliminate it. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Serco: a once-beleaguered outsourcer plans for a shift to quality. 
•
Financial Times (Lex): Glencore: the miner-cum-trader has executed its game plan. 
Load-Date: December 2, 2016
End of Document
Aperio Group LLC Cuts Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Aperio Group LLC Cuts Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
December 2, 2016 Friday 8:18 PM EST
Copyright 2016 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 745 words
Byline: Tyrone Williams
Body
Dec 02, 2016( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Aperio Group LLC decreased its 
stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 10.7% during the third quarter, Holdings Channel[1] 
reports. The fund owned 59,435 shares of the company's stock after selling 7,157 shares during the period. Aperio 
Group LLC's holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were worth $4,459,000 as of its most recent SEC filing. 
 A number of other hedge funds have also made changes to their positions in RYAAY. Todd Asset Management 
LLC increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 8.2% in the second quarter. Todd Asset Management LLC now 
owns 294,137 shares of the company's stock worth $20,454,000 after buying an additional 22,361 shares in the last 
quarter. Hussman Strategic Advisors Inc. increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 50.0% in the second 
quarter. Hussman Strategic Advisors Inc. now owns 75,000 shares of the company's stock worth $5,216,000 after 
buying an additional 25,000 shares in the last quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings 
PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. now owns 1,616 shares of the company's stock worth 
$113,000 after buying an additional 15 shares in the last quarter. Herndon Capital Management LLC purchased a 
new stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the second quarter worth approximately $501,000. Finally, Huntington 
National Bank increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 153.1% in the second quarter. Huntington National 
Bank now owns 4,287 shares of the company's stock worth $298,000 after buying an additional 2,593 shares in the 
last quarter. 42.38% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors. Shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded up 0.53% on Thursday, hitting $80.26. The stock had a trading 
volume of 242,179 shares. The firm has a 50 day moving average price of $0.00 and a 200 day moving average 
price of $0.00. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a one year low of $66.09 and a one year high of $89.67.  
http://www.dailypolitical.com/2016/12/02/aperio-group-llc-cuts-position-in-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay.html. 
 
 
A 
number of brokerages have recently issued reports on RYAAY. Zacks Investment Research raised Ryanair 
Holdings PLC from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating and set a $85.00 target price on the stock in a research report on 
Thursday, September 22nd. BNP Paribas began coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on 
Thursday, October 13th. They set an 'outperform' rating on the stock. Beaufort Securities reaffirmed a 'buy' rating 
on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Wednesday, October 5th. Deutsche Bank AG lowered 
Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Wednesday, September 7th. 
Finally, Berenberg Bank began coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Friday, November 11th. 
They set a 'buy' rating on the stock. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and four 
have issued a buy rating to the company's stock. The stock has an average rating of 'Hold' and an average target 
price of $89.50. About Ryanair Holdings PLC Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for 
Aperio Group LLC Cuts Position in Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, 
point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair 
provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, 
including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and 
merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the 
latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair 
Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and 
analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[4]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: December 2, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair eyes to become Amazon of air travel with package holidays
Ryanair eyes to become Amazon of air travel with package holidays
City A.M.
December 2, 2016 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 162 words
Byline: REBECCA SMITH
Body
RYANAIR has launched a package holiday service, Ryanair Holidays, as it seeks to become the "Amazon of air 
travel".
It is offering its 119m customers flights, accommodation and transfer packages, partnering with Spainbased tour 
operator Logitravel and accommodation provider World2Meet to deliver the service.
It launched in the UK, Ireland and Germany yesterday, with other markets to follow next year.
Ryanair's chief marketing officer Kenny Jacobs said his firm wants to "transform the package holiday market".
"Consumers have been paying too much for package holidays for years and more and more want to put their own 
packages together themselves," he said.
Ryanair customers will be able to choose from a range of hotels throughout the Mediterranean and Europe's capital 
cities.
The company said it plans to undercut rivals by forgoing commissions often charged by holiday firms.
The company also launched Ryanair Car Hire and Ryanair Rooms this year as it aims to branch out.
Load-Date: December 2, 2016
Ryanair eyes to become Amazon of air travel with package holidays
End of Document
Ex- EasyJet COO joins Stobart Group
Ex-EasyJet COO joins Stobart Group
AirFinance Journal
December 2016
Copyright 2016 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 245 words
Byline: Olivier Bonnassies
Body
Stobart Group has announced the appointment of Warwick Brady as deputy chief executive officer, effective 3 
January 2017.
Brady was chief operating officer of easyJet until 30 September 2016 and has extensive commercial and 
management experience which will be extremely valuable to the Group, as a whole, and its Aviation division, in 
particular.
He will join the board of directors following the group’s annual general meeting in June 2017.
Brady was instrumental in developing a highly efficient, low-cost, customer-focused operation and delivering 
significant value for shareholders at Easyjet. He has extensive aviation and broad business experience at senior 
level and has managed high growth, low cost airlines and start-up businesses.
He was chief executive officer at Mandala Airlines in Asia and spent two years as chief operating officer of Air 
Deccan/Kingfisher in India. Prior to that, Warwick was deputy operations director at Ryanair from 2002 to 2005, 
where he held various senior executive roles including deputy chief executive officer of Buzz, following its 
acquisition from KLM.
Group Stobart's chief executive officer Andrew Tinckler said: “I am delighted that Warwick has agreed to join us and 
I look forward to working with him. His commercial and operational experience will benefit the whole Group and his 
proven aviation industry expertise will provide added impetus as we build on the platform we have created in our 
aviation division.”
Load-Date: January 16, 2017
End of Document
Retail inMotion develops pre-order IT solution
Retail inMotion develops pre-order IT solution
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
December 1, 2016 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: TECHNOLOGY & TELECOMMUNICATIONS; Food
Length: 236 words
Highlight: Retail inMotion has developed a pre-order IT solution with the capability to allow passengers to choose 
from an airline's inflight meal selection before their date of departure.
Body
The pre-order solution, originally developed for Ryanair, is scalable and can be integrated into any airline&#39;s 
booking system to provide order information in real time."The development of our pre-order solution took just ten 
weeks and is a great picture of how customer-centric we are at Retail inMotion," stated Stefan Patermann, CCO 
Retail inMotion. "The implementation of the software extends passengers&#39; onboard experience to the ground 
and it is a true advantage for any airline looking to further develop their passenger interfaces."In combination with 
the rollout of the pre-order solution, Retail inMotion collaborated with Ryanair to introduce a premium Irish breakfast 
meal box for passengers. 
The hot breakfast, which has been flying on Ryanair flights from Dublin since October 1, includes a selection of 
traditional Irish breakfast items and is served with orange juice and a hot drink. Packaged in a picnic-style box that 
unfolds into a picnic blanket, the breakfast entices passengers to enjoy a traditional Irish meal in a non-traditional 
and entertaining way."We are pleased with the longstanding partnership we have cultivated with Retail inMotion. 
The implementation of the pre-order solution and continued support in developing innovative products allows us to 
further enhance our already high-quality and innovative onboard experience," commented Aoife Greene, Head of 
Inflight at Ryanair.
Load-Date: December 7, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair launch package holiday service
Ryanair launch package holiday service
Business World (Digest)
December 01, 2016 Thursday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 146 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Ryanair have today launched a package holiday service, “Ryanair Holidays”, which will offer accommodation and 
transfer packages.   The airline has partnered with Spain-based tour operator, Logitravel and accommodation 
provider, World2Meet to create “Ryanair Holidays” which launches in the UK, Ireland and Germany today, with 
other markets to follow in 2017.    Ryanair’s Chief Marketing Officer, Kenny Jacobs said, "Consumers have been 
paying too much for package holidays for years and more and more want to put their own packages together 
themselves. Ryanair customers already enjoy the biggest route network in Europe and with “Ryanair Holidays” can 
choose from a fantastic range of 3, 4 and 5 star hotels throughout the Mediterranean and Europe’s capital cities, 
ideal for last minute getaways, summer family holidays, winter sun or city breaks."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 12, 2016
End of Document
Lufthansa 's business image at stake in showdown with pilots
Lufthansa's business image at stake in showdown with pilots
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 29, 2016 Tuesday 2:29 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 695 words
Body
       By Andrew McCathie, dpa   The stakes are high for Lufthansa as it continues its long-running battle with pilots 
to make the savings it says are necessary to meet the challenges posed by new airline rivals. Will its image survive 
what seem to be never-ending rounds of labour stoppages?  FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Lufthansa's shares faced a 
turbulent trading session on Tuesday amid the long-running industrial dispute between the German airline and its 
pilots. It's a dangerous game which threatens damage to the carrier's business image. 
 Germany's biggest airline has been forced to ground more than 1,700 flights scheduled for Tuesday and 
Wednesday after its pilots walked off the job at midnight Tuesday(2300 GMT Monday) in a pay battle with the airline 
that dates back to April 2014.  The airline had just endured a days-long labour stoppage last week, part of the same 
fight.  Lufthansa estimates the cost of the new industrial action at up to 10 million euros (10.6 million dollars) a day, 
with both sides hardening their positions as the pilots' union Vereinigung Cockpit threatens to extend the strike 
beyond Wednesday.  'The conflict is only superficially about numbers,' said aviation analyst Heinrich 
Grossbongardt. 'At its core remains [the airline's] corporate strategy.  'The era of the flag-carrier, such as Lufthansa, 
is coming to an end and giving way to one of fierce competition with the low-cost airlines, which, of course, is linked 
to cuts in social services for employees,' said Grossbongardt.  Lufthansa is battling to cut costs and restructure its 
operations in the face of competition from budget rivals such as Ryanair and EasyJet in Europe and Middle Eastern 
airlines including Emirates and Etihad on long-haul routes.  Two-and-a-half years ago, Lufthansa chief Carsten 
Spohr promised to ease the industrial tensions between the airline and its pilots.  But the strikes set for Tuesday 
and Wednesday have thrown the travel plans of about 180,000 passengers into chaos. Lufthansa have now been 
hit by 15 pilot walkouts in the last two years.  This has raised questions about what impact the strikes eventually 
could have on the airline's customer base and business image.  Lufthansa's shares were down by nearly 2 per cent 
at one stage during Tuesday trading on the Frankfurt Stock Market, before they bounced back up 0.93 per cent 
later in the trading session.  The airline reported earlier this year that its adjusted earnings before interest and tax 
jumped 55 per cent to a record 1.82 billion euros in 2015 thanks to low fuel costs.  But now, the new round of 
strikes comes as part of the build-up to the crucial Christmas travel period, with Lufthansa's 5,400 pilots demanding 
a backdated 22-per-cent wage hike over five years until April 2017.  A Munich labour court on Monday rejected 
Lufthansa's call for an injunction to stop this week's planned industrial action.  That came after a court in Frankfurt 
Lufthansa 's business image at stake in showdown with pilots
last week rejected a similar request by Lufthansa for an injunction to stop a four-day pilots' strike, which ended 
Sunday.  Last week's industrial action resulted in the cancellation of 2,700 flights and left 350,000 passengers 
scrambling to make alternative travel arrangements.  The new industrial action has been sparked by a breakdown 
in talks between Lufthansa and the pilots, with Vereinigung Cockpit rejecting the management's new offer of a 4.4-
per-cent salary increase and a one-time payout equivalent to 1.8 months' salary.  'There is still no offer from 
Lufthansa on which to negotiate for the remuneration of the pilots, which means that the industrial campaign has to 
be continued,' Joerg Handwerg of Vereinigung Cockpit's executive committee said.  'Both parties are of the opinion 
that they are the stronger,' Hagen Lesch from the Institute of the German Economy told dpa.  'As long as everyone 
believes that 'we can beat the others,' we cannot expect a compromise,' Lesch said.  Lufthansa's budget airline 
operations Eurowings and Germanwings, as well as other carriers in the group - SWISS, Austrian Airlines, Air 
Dolomiti und Brussels Airlines - have not been affected by the pilots' strike.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: November 29, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair launches Cyber Monday sale
Ryanair launches Cyber Monday sale
Business World (Digest)
November 28, 2016 Monday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 94 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
It was announced today that Ryanair have launched a Cyber Monday sale with up to 20% off 10 million seats.
The sale seats are for travel from December to March but must be booked by midnight tonight (24:00hrs Monday). 
The sale is part of the 8-day ‘Cyber Week’ campaign.
Ryanair's Chief Marketing Officer, Robin Kiely says, "Millions of customers have booked themselves a ‘Cyber 
Week’ bargain over the last week and to celebrate ‘Cyber Monday’ we’ve reduced fares by up to 20% on 10 million 
seats for travel from December to March." 
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: December 6, 2016
End of Document
More than 800 flights grounded as Lufthansa dispute intensifies
More than 800 flights grounded as Lufthansa dispute intensifies
Business World (Digest)
November 25, 2016 Friday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: EU
Length: 357 words
Byline: Sim Pinder
Body
German airline Lufthansa canceled around 830 flights on Friday because of a strike by pilots, with long-haul 
journeys facing disruption over the weekend as the dispute intensifies.
Shares in Lufthansa, down more than 13 percent this year, traded lower on Friday as investors fretted over the 
prospect of a long-running walkout at the German airline with neither pilots nor management appearing willing to 
back down.
One of Europe's biggest airlines, Lufthansa has canceled over 2,600 flights since pilots represented by the 
Vereinigung Cockpit (VC) union went on strike on Wednesday, disrupting travel plans for more than 315,000 
passengers.
The union raised the pressure on management and extended the strike for a third time on Thursday, saying all long-
haul flights leaving Germany on Saturday will be affected until midnight. The strike on Friday was affecting short 
and medium-haul flights.
The pilots' strike is their 14th walkout since early 2014. The union wants an average annual pay increase of 3.7 
percent for 5,400 pilots in Germany over a five-year period from 2012. Lufthansa has offered 2.5 percent over six 
years to 2019.
Lufthansa Chief Executive Carsten Spohr has said the carrier's future would be on the line if pilots' wages were 
raised to the level demanded.
Lufthansa insists that despite a record profit in 2015, it has no choice but to cut costs to compete with leaner rivals 
such as Ryanair on short-haul routes and Emirates on long-haul flights.
More than 800 flights grounded as Lufthansa dispute intensifies
Lufthansa has put the cost of the stoppage at around 10 million euros ($11 million) per day.
However, the airline could take a longer-term hit if the strike prompts customers to shun Lufthansa and switch to 
rival airlines. Board member Harry Hohmeister said on Thursday the walkout was hitting mid-term bookings.
Lufthansa shares traded 0.8 percent lower at 12.54 euros by 0900 GMT.
The airline has urged the union to enter mediation, but the union said it wants to see a better offer first.
It has already agreed deals with the main unions representing ground staff and cabin crew in Germany, leaving an 
agreement with its pilots outstanding. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: December 5, 2016
End of Document
Advisors Asset Management Inc. Sells 2,979 Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
Advisors Asset Management Inc. Sells 2,979 Shares of Ryanair Holdings 
PLC (RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
November 25, 2016 Friday 7:20 AM EST
Copyright 2016 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 733 words
Byline: Tyrone Williams
Body
Nov 25, 2016( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Advisors Asset Management Inc. 
lowered its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 19.9% during the third quarter, according to its 
most recent 13F filing with the SEC. The firm owned 12,021 shares of the company's stock after selling 2,979 
shares during the period. 
Advisors Asset Management Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were worth $902,000 as of its most recent 
filing with the SEC.  Other hedge funds have also recently modified their holdings of the company. Manning ...pier 
Advisors LLC increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 2.8% in the third quarter. Manning ...pier Advisors 
LLC now owns 1,938,000 shares of the company's stock valued at $145,406,000 after buying an additional 52,262 
shares in the last quarter. World Asset Management Inc increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 6.6% in 
the third quarter. World Asset Management Inc now owns 17,045 shares of the company's stock valued at 
$1,279,000 after buying an additional 1,050 shares in the last quarter. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. bought 
a new position in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the third quarter valued at $203,000. Wright Investors Service Inc. 
increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 3.6% in the third quarter. Wright Investors Service Inc. now owns 
39,084 shares of the company's stock valued at $2,932,000 after buying an additional 1,370 shares in the last 
quarter. Finally, 1st Global Advisors Inc. increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 8.6% in the third quarter. 
1st Global Advisors Inc. now owns 5,002 shares of the company's stock valued at $375,000 after buying an 
additional 394 shares in the last quarter. 41.77% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge 
funds. Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) remained flat at $82.68 during trading on Thursday. Ryanair 
Holdings PLC has a 12 month low of $66.09 and a 12 month high of $89.67. The stock's 50-day moving average is 
$0.00 and its 200-day moving average is $0.00.   Several equities analysts have commented on the company. 
Zacks Investment Research downgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'hold' rating to a 'sell' rating in a research 
report on Wednesday. Berenberg Bank assumed coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on 
Friday, November 11th. They issued a 'buy' rating on the stock. Deutsche Bank AG downgraded Ryanair Holdings 
PLC from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Wednesday, September 7th. HSBC raised Ryanair 
Holdings PLC from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Wednesday, November 2nd. Finally, 
Beaufort Securities reaffirmed a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research report on Friday, 
October 21st. One investment analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, four have assigned a hold rating and 
four have given a buy rating to the company. The company presently has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and a 
consensus price target of $89.50. http://www.dailypolitical.com/2016/11/24/advisors-asset-management-inc-sells-
Advisors Asset Management Inc. Sells 2,979 Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
2979-shares-of-ryanair-holdings-plc-ryaay.html. About Ryanair Holdings PLC Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair 
Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-
passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental 
Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in other activities connected 
with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-
flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit 
HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to 
receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related 
companies 
with 
MarketBeat.com's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[3]. 
[ 
1]: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: November 25, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair ditches Momondo for contract breach
Ryanair ditches Momondo for contract breach
City A.M.
November 25, 2016 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 23
Length: 192 words
Byline: REBECCA SMITH
Body
RYANAIR has revoked a licencing agreement with travel search engine Momondo, saying it was due to a breach of 
contract.
The low-cost carrier said Momondo had "displayed links to unauthorised screenscraper websites including Opodo 
and CheapOair, which unlawfully missell Ryanair's low fares".
Ryanair has been plagued with trouble from so-called screenscraper sites, that copy data from other sites. 
EDREAMs has been a particular trouble for the airline over alleged issues with ticket sales and the failure to pass 
on accurate information to customers.
Yesterday, a German court ruled against eDreams, preventing unlawful and anti-consumer practices while mis-
selling Ryanair flights on the German website. It ordered the site to display the final price of flights at the beginning 
of the booking process and include all surcharges as levied by eDreams. A previous ruling in Germany stopped 
eDreams using Ryanair in its German domain name, with the airline saying the site was trying to dupe customers.
Ryanair's also embroiled in proceedings in the Irish High Court against Google and eDreams, saying it wants to 
stop consumers being misled by deceptive ads.
Load-Date: November 25, 2016
End of Document
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
City A.M.
November 23, 2016 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 442 words
Body
FINANCIAL TIMES WILLIS TOWERS WATSON BOSS TO GET $21M PAY-OFF A top executive at Willis Towers 
Watson is to receive a pay-off of up to $21m when he leaves the insurance broker and consultant at the end of the 
year, according to documents analysed by the Financial Times. The payment to Dominic Casserley, the deputy 
chief executive, comes at the end of a year when shares in Willis Towers Watson have sharply underperformed 
those of its two main rivals.
NORTH POLE HEATING INCREASES CLIMATE FEARS Scientists are struggling to understand why a burst of 
"scary" warming at the North Pole has pushed Arctic temperatures nearly 20 degrees higher than normal for 
November. Experts are shocked by the soaring temperatures recorded in November, when much of the region is 
plunged into winter.
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH ECONOMISTS NEED TO GET INTO THE REAL WORLD Economists are too detached 
from the real world and have failed to learn from the financial crisis, insisting on using mathematical models which 
do not reflect reality, so said Bank of England chief economist Andy Haldane.
ASTRAZENECA APPROVED TO RESUME CANCER TRIALS AstraZeneca has resumed recruiting patients in 
trials on head and neck cancer after US regulators lifted a pause on the studies following cases of bleeding. The 
drug maker was testing whether its experimental drug was effective in prolonging the life of patients with head and 
neck cancer.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL CARLYLE IN TALKS TO BUY CLOSELY HELD NOVOLEX Buyout firm Carlyle 
Group is in talks to buy packaging company Novolex for a price that could exceed $2.5bn. Novolex is owned by 
another private-equity firm, Wind Point Partners. Novolex's products include plastic bags and paper shopping bags 
used in grocery stores.
WHAT THE OTHER PAPERS SAY THIS MORNING
OVERTIME RULE TO GO INTO EFFECT BUT MAY NOT LAST US employers have spent months adjusting 
employee schedules, job duties and pay ahead of a new overtime rule that takes effect 1 December. The Obama 
regulation, which makes millions more workers eligible for overtime pay, may be scrapped in 2017.
THE TIMES RUDD FORCED TO RETHINK STUDENT WORK VISA PLANS Amber Rudd is set to back away from 
plans to allow only those foreign students who are at the UK's top universities to work in the UK after they graduate. 
A consultation on the student visa regime will now not be published until the new year. Whitehall sources say the 
home secretary, scarred by the reaction to her proposal to force firms to record foreign workers, is determined to 
avoid another immigration row.
RYANAIR BOSS FLOATS ZERO FARES IDEA Michael O'Leary, head of Ryanair, said he was considering moving 
from low fares to no fares for many travellers.
Load-Date: November 23, 2016
End of Document
Michael O'Leary accuses UK Government of "lunatic optimism" over Brexit
Michael O'Leary accuses UK Government of "lunatic optimism" over Brexit
Business World (Digest)
November 23, 2016 Wednesday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 162 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Michael O'Leary yesterday told the annual conference of the Airport Operators Association in west London, that 
Britain is on the verge of walking off a cliff by leaving the EU.
O'Leary also claimed Government Ministers in Britain have no idea what they are doing.
According to the Irish Independent, the Chief Executive of Ryanair told attendees at the conference, "If we get it 
wrong, I'm sure we'll come charging back into the UK with more aircraft and airports doing lower-cost deals. But 
frankly there's very little evidence apart from some mildly lunatic optimism over here that it will be all right on the 
night."
He added, "It's like Dad's Army going off to war here. It'll be all right, Sergeant (sic) Jones. You'll just keep plodding 
along. These guys have no idea where they're going for the next two years and the problem is that in the absence 
of any discussions with the Europeans on Brexit, they're all talking to themselves." 
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: December 1, 2016
End of Document
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 22.11.2016 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 22.11.2016 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 22, 2016 Tuesday 8:54 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 582 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - The following investment banks issued recommendations this morning as follows:  - 
BERENBERG REINITIATES DAIMLER WITH 'SELL' - PRICE TARGET 53 EUR - BERENBERG REINITIATES 
VOLKSWAGEN WITH 'SELL' - PRICE TARGET 98 EUR - BERENBERG STARTS BMW WITH 'HOLD' - PRICE 
TARGET 83 EUR - BERENBERG STARTS CONTINENTAL AG WITH 'SELL' - PRICE TARGET 140 EUR - 
BERENBERG STARTS SCHAEFFLER WITH 'HOLD' - PRICE TARGET 13 EUR - COMMERZBANK RAISES 
WIRECARD PRICE TARGET TO 65 (55) EUR - 'BUY' - GOLDMAN CUTS RTL PRICE TARGET TO 78.50 (81.00) 
EUR - 'NEUTRAL' - HSBC CUTS ALSTRIA OFFICE PRICE TARGET TO 14.40 (14.70) EUR - 'BUY' - HSBC 
RAISES DIC ASSET PRICE TARGET TO 11.20 (11.00) EUR - 'BUY' - HSBC RAISES HAMBORNER REIT PRICE 
TARGET TO 11.20 (11.10) EUR - 'BUY' - HSBC RAISES K+S PRICE TARGET TO 15.50 (15.00) EUR - 'REDUCE'  
- BERENBERG STARTS FIAT CHRYSLER WITH 'HOLD' - PRICE TARGET 7.70 EUR - HSBC RAISES MOSAIC 
PRICE TARGET TO 23.25 (22.75) USD - 'REDUCE'  - BERENBERG RAISES SCAPA GROUP PRICE TARGET 
TO 355 (310) PENCE - 'BUY' - BERENBERG REINITIATES PEUGEOT WITH 'SELL' - PRICE TARGET 11.50 EUR 
- BERENBERG REINITIATES RENAULT WITH 'HOLD' - PRICE TARGET 75 EUR - BERENBERG STARTS 
MICHELIN WITH 'SELL' - PRICE TARGET 80 EUR - GOLDMAN CUTS ITV PRICE TARGET TO 201 (202) PENCE 
- 'BUY' - GOLDMAN CUTS WILLIAM HILL PRICE TARGET TO 310 (320) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - HSBC CUTS 
YARA PRICE TARGET TO 210 (220) NOK - 'REDUCE' - HSBC RAISES POTASH PRICE TARGET TO 15.75 
(14.25) USD - 'HOLD' - HSBC RAISES UNIBAIL-RODAMCO PRICE TARGET TO 275 (268) EUR - 'BUY' - 
JEFFERIES CUTS GALLIFORD TRY TO 'HOLD' ('BUY') - TARGET 1388 (1380) PENCE - JEFFERIES RAISES 
DIPLOMA PLC PRICE TARGET TO 1050 (970) PENCE - 'BUY' - JEFFERIES RAISES ELECTROCOMPONENTS 
PRICE TARGET TO 430 (270) PENCE - 'HOLD' - JEFFERIES RAISES GEORGIA HEALTHCARE GROUP 
TARGET TO 420 (395) PENCE - 'BUY' - JPMORGAN RAISES CHEMRING GROUP PRICE TARGET TO 155 
(145) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - JPMORGAN RAISES RYANAIR PRICE TARGET TO 16.00 (15.25) EUR - 
'OVERWEIGHT' - MACQUARIE CUTS INTERMEDIATE CAPITAL TO 'NEUTRAL' ('OUTPERFORM) - 
MACQUARIE RAISES INTERMEDIATE CAPITAL PRICE TARGET TO 675 (626) PENCE - MACQUARIE RAISES 
SWISS RE PRICE TARGET TO 100 (90) SFR - 'OUTPERFORM' - UBS STARTS SHELL B WITH 'BUY' - PRICE 
TARGET 2250 PENCE  - TRADERS: COMMERZBANK RAISES PRICE TARGET WIRECARD TO 65 (55) EUR - 
TRADERS: CREDIT SUISSE RAISES PRICE TARGET TALANX TO 30 (27) EUR - 'NEUTRAL' - TRADERS: 
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 22.11.2016 - 08.50 am
EXANE BNP CUTS PRICE TARGET DEUTSCHE TELEKOM TO 18 (19) EUR - TRADERS: KEPLER 
CHEUVREUX RAISES PRICE TARGET DEUTSCHE WOHNEN TO 39 (38) EUR - TRADERS: LAMPE CUTS 
PRICE TARGET VONOVIA TO 41 (43) EUR - 'BUY' - TRADERS: LAMPE RAISES LEG IMMOBILIEN TO 'BUY' 
(HOLD) - TRADERS: CITIGROUP RAISES INFORMA TO 'NEUTRAL' ('SELL') - TRADERS: CREDIT SUISSE 
CUTS PEARSON TO 'UNDERPERFORM' ('NEUTRAL') - TRADERS: CREDIT SUISSE INITIATES PUBLICIS 
WITH 'UNDERPERFORM' - TRADERS: CREDIT SUISSE INITIATES WPP WITH 'OUTPERFORM' - TRADERS: 
CREDIT SUISSE RAISES RELX TO 'OUTPERFORM' ('NEUTRAL') - TRADERS: CREDIT SUISSE STARTS SKY 
PLC WITH 'OUTPERFORM' - TRADERS: DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES PRICE TARGET ZURICH TO 270 (260) 
SFR - TRADERS: EXANE BNP CUTS VODAFONE TO 'NEUTRAL' (OUTPERFORM) - TRADERS: JEFFERIES 
CUTS GALLIFORD TRY TO 'HOLD' ('BUY') - TRADERS: LIBERUM CUTS GRAFTON GROUP TO 'HOLD' ('BUY') 
- TRADERS: MACQUARIE CUTS INTERMEDIATE CAPITAL TO 'NEUTRAL' ('OUTPERFORM')  dpa-AFX 
Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH assumes no liability for the  correctness of this information./rob    
Load-Date: November 22, 2016
End of Document
UK says Brexit will allow liberalisation of aviation market Ministers tell industry they will seek to maintain access 
to Europe, but agreements with third count....
UK says Brexit will allow liberalisation of aviation market; Ministers tell 
industry they will seek to maintain access to Europe, but agreements with 
third countries are possible
Flight International
November 22, 2016
Copyright 2016 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AIR TRANSPORT
Length: 261 words
Body
As part of negotiations to leave the EU, UK officials will seek to maintain “liberal access” to European aviation 
markets and explore “new opportunities for further liberalisation”.
In a joint statement issued with the industry body Airlines UK following a round-table held with aviation industry 
representatives on 14 November, the government says maintaining market access with Europe is “a top priority”.
It also argues that Brexit provides “greater freedom to seek new agreements between the UK and some third 
countries”, including the potential for new bilateral agreements with the USA and Canada.
Other areas it says are of “critical importance” to be addressed during negotiations include “aviation safety, security, 
air traffic management, passenger rights, customs and the environment”.
The round-table, held at London City airport, was attended by Transport Secretary Chris Grayling and the Secretary 
for Exiting the EU, David Davis, along with industry representatives, including those from EasyJet, IAG, Monarch, 
Ryanair and Heathrow, letting ministers “hear their views on the Brexit negotiations”.
The government has pledged to trigger the formal two-year process of exiting the EU in March.
In their statement, the government and Airlines UK say they share “a determination to give as much early certainty 
to the sector as possible, given the long lead-in times associated with developing new routes – and to supporting 
the sector as much as possible in the interim”.
Heathrow airport and UK airlines were represented at the meeting
Gary Dawson/REX/Shutterstock
UK says Brexit will allow liberalisation of aviation market Ministers tell industry they will seek to maintain access 
to Europe, but agreements with third count....
Load-Date: November 22, 2016
End of Document
Low-cost trailblazer Irelandia eyes Latin American growth Airline backer sees Argentina as potential market, as 
it plans order to fuel fleet expansion
Low-cost trailblazer Irelandia eyes Latin American growth; Airline backer 
sees Argentina as potential market, as it plans order to fuel fleet expansion
Flight International
November 22, 2016
Copyright 2016 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AIR TRANSPORT
Length: 305 words
Body
Irelandia Aviation, a developer of low-cost carriers, could launch up to two new Viva-branded airlines in 2018, a 
year after Viva Air Peru begins flights.
One of the two new operations is likely to be in Argentina. “I won’t discount another one [besides Argentina] for 
2018,” says William Shaw, chief executive of VivaColombia, which is majority owned by Irelandia.
Shaw is co-founder of VivaColombia and is helping to get Viva Air Peru off the ground in the first half of 2017. The 
Peruvian airline will operate two Airbus A320s transferred from VivaColombia.
Irelandia plans to launch a request for proposals for an aircraft order that will enable the Viva group of carriers to 
grow, Shaw said at the ALTA Airline Leaders Forum in Mexico City. While VivaColombia and sister airline 
VivaAerobus operate A320s, Shaw does not rule out the Boeing 737.
“If you look at Irelandia’s history, you will see other airlines operating other aircraft,” he says. Ryanair, in which the 
holding company still has a stake, uses 737s, Shaw points out.
VivaColombia itself will take delivery of another four A320s in the coming months, besides the two reserved for Viva 
Air Peru. Its 11th A320, leased from GECAS, will arrive in December.
The carrier plans to launch at least two new domestic routes in 2017, and will add a fifth international destination in 
Cancun in the second quarter, serving the Mexican resort from Medellin.
Passenger numbers at the airline will hit 3.6 million this year, and are expected to climb to just over 5 million in 
2017.
VivaColombia will see more low-cost competition in its back yard, as Copa Airlines’ Bogota-based low-cost affiliate 
Wingo begins flights. LATAM Airlines Group also plans to debut unbundled fares on its domestic network in 
Colombia in 2017.
Low-cost trailblazer Irelandia eyes Latin American growth Airline backer sees Argentina as potential market, as 
it plans order to fuel fleet expansion
VivaColombia is to receive four more A320s in the coming months
Load-Date: November 22, 2016
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Higher as Oil Stocks Gain Traction
European ADRs Edge Higher as Oil Stocks Gain Traction
MT Newswires Live Briefs
November 21, 2016 Monday 10:38 AM EST
Copyright 2016 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 203 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.74% higher at 114.90 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Monday morning. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by energy companies Statoil (STO), Total (TOT) and Eni (E), 3.8%, 2.4% 
and 1.9% higher, respectively. Forward Pharma (FWP),  a Danish biopharmaceutical company, was up by 1.8%. 
In the UK, gold mining company Randgold Resources (GOLD) was 3.1% higher, followed by education company 
Pearson (PSO), up by 3.1% and oil and gas production company Royal Dutch Shell -B Shares and A Shares 
(RDS.B, RDS.A), both 2.5% higher.
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Aixtron (AIXG), a German provider of deposition equipment to the 
semiconductor industry, 7.7% lower, followed by Materialise (MTLS), a Belgian provider of 3D printing software and 
services, down by 3.2% and Ascendis Pharma (ASND), a Danish clinical stage biopharmaceutical company, 1.2% 
lower. Telecom Italia - Savings (TI.A), a telecommunications company, was down by 1.2%. 
And, in the UK, Midatech Pharma (MTP), an early-stage biopharmaceutical company, was 6.1% lower followed by 
low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY), down by 0.9%.
Price: 16.92, Change: +0.65, Percent Change: +4.00
Load-Date: November 22, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair launches massive winter seat sale
Ryanair launches massive winter seat sale
Business World (Digest)
November 18, 2016 Friday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 123 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
It was announced yesterday that Ryanair has launched a massive winter seat sale with over 250,000 seats on 360 
routes on sale from just €9.99, for travel in November, December and January.    The €9.99 seat sale fares are 
available now but must be booked before midnight today.
Ryanair’s Chief Marketing Officer, Robin Kiely says, "The weather is freezing – and we’re freezing our fares! We’ve 
launched a massive winter seat sale, with over 250,000 seats on sale from just €9.99 on 360 routes, for travel in 
November, December and January, only on the Ryanair.com website. This amazing offer will end at midnight Friday 
so customers should log on quickly and bag an ice cold bargain winter getaway today."
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: November 28, 2016
End of Document
EasyJet chief confident of navigating Brexit storms Europe's second-biggest low-cost carrier focuses on 
expansion, despite profit warning
EasyJet chief confident of navigating Brexit storms; Europe's second-
biggest low-cost carrier focuses on expansion, despite profit warning
Financial Times (London, England)
November 17, 2016 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 21
Length: 1099 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Body
When easyJet announced its financial results a year ago, jihadist violence appeared to be the biggest cloud on an 
otherwise bright horizon for Europe's second-biggest low-cost airline.
The group had just flown thousands of passengers home early from Sharm el-Sheikh in Egypt, after a bomb 
brought down a Russian aircraft, while four days earlier 130 people had been killed in Paris.
The £686m pre-tax profit for 2015 nevertheless marked easyJet's fifth successive record year.
Since then the skies have darkened. EasyJet, led by Dame Carolyn McCall, has been buffeted by further acts of 
violence in some destinations, disruption from air traffic strikes, and the economic and political uncertainty triggered 
by the Brexit vote.
The airline issued a profit warning four days after the EU referendum, partly because it expected the uncertainty 
would deter people from travelling. On Tuesday it revealed that pre-tax profits dropped 28 per cent , to £495m, in 
the year to September 2016 . Its share price has fallen 40 per cent in the past year.
The threat that has generated much of the attention surrounding the airline is that it loses its membership of the 
single European aviation market - and with it the right to fly many of its routes - once the UK leaves the EU. Created 
EasyJet chief confident of navigating Brexit storms Europe's second-biggest low-cost carrier focuses on 
expansion, despite profit warning
in the 1990s, the single market allows EU airlines to operate services on any route within the bloc and has been 
crucial to easyJet's expansion.
Michael O'Leary, chief executive of rival Ryanair, has been quick to highlight the potential risks to easyJet's 
business if Brexit removes the right of UK-registered airlines to fly wherever they want within the union.
Dame Carolyn is not overly worried.
"We believe the government will end up achieving agreement between the UK and Europe," she says.
"We are the single largest aviation market in Europe and therefore it's in everybody's interests to have an 
agreement."
Even if the UK is shut out of some markets, she says the problem will be solved by setting up an EU-based 
subsidiary that will apply for an independent air operator certificate. EasyJet has such an arrangement in 
Switzerland.
The airline will register aircraft that fly entirely within the EU with the new company, whose location it will decide 
some time next year.
"By doing this, we secure our own flying rights and we're in control of our own destiny," says Dame Carolyn.
John Strickland, an independent aviation consultant, says it is too early to foresee the process's outcome. 
"[EasyJet] has to be very proactive on all fronts because of the very large element of uncertainty it contains," he 
says.
Dame Carolyn dismisses suggestions that the past year has revealed strategic weaknesses in the easyJet 
business. She brushes aside the idea that the lower costs of Ryanair give the Irish airline a critical advantage in 
such tough conditions. EasyJet still earned almost £500m in tough conditions, she points out.
"I think our easyJet team have done a really, really good job keeping our customers loyal, growing our ancillary 
revenues, doing everything we can on cost and revenue to ensure we deliver."
Dame Carolyn is focusing on maximising returns. Her strategy depends partly on exploiting the airline's strong 
position at big airports such as Amsterdam Schiphol and Paris Charles de Gaulle, where there is no capacity for 
new competitors such as Ryanair to come in.
"It's so difficult to replicate," she says of the company's network. "Ninety-eight per cent of what we do touches a 
primary airport where we're number one or number two."
She outlines plans for a 9 per cent capacity expansion in the year to September 2017, a step up from the 6.6 per 
cent in the last financial year.
She says this will narrow the airline's cost disadvantage by bringing in bigger, more efficient aircraft. Excluding fuel, 
easyJet's average cost to operate a seat on a flight - £38.31 (EUR44.44) - is 59 per cent higher than Ryanair's 
EUR28.
"It's a very clear strategy," Dame Carolyn says. "We've done a huge amount of analysis on how we make our 
money and where we make our money, even in a tough environment."
Many industry observers back easyJet's strategy, given how many of Europe's higher-cost legacy airlines have 
slipped into loss and face uncertain futures. Analysts at HSBC and Cantor Fitzgerald class the company's shares a 
buy, while Dublin's Davy Research has an "outperform" rating.
Mr Strickland predicts that both easyJet and Ryanair will emerge from the difficulties stronger.
EasyJet chief confident of navigating Brexit storms Europe's second-biggest low-cost carrier focuses on 
expansion, despite profit warning
"If you look at the total market share of the two together, it still leaves everything to play for, given the weakness of 
competitors that might yet fall by the wayside," he says.
Over the coming year, 20 per cent of easyJet's new capacity will come from replacing ageing A319 aircraft - which 
have only 156 seats - with 186-seat A320s.
The shift to bigger aircraft will help to close a key gap with Ryanair, which operates 189-seat Boeing 737s .
It is the kind of decision that Dame Carolyn insists is critical if the company is to emerge from the current storms.
"When you have short-term headwinds, people can make real mistakes," she says. "You have to be brave enough 
to look to the long term to make your company sustainably successful."
Capacity challenge
Rivals adopt differing fleet strategies
One apparent similarity between easyJet and Ryanair - which both have plans to expand capacity - belies the 
contrasting strategies of the two low-cost airlines.
Under its agreement with Boeing, Ryanair has little discretion over when it receives aircraft, according to Michael 
O'Leary , chief executive. It can choose only where to deploy the 40 or so 737s it receives annually from Boeing's 
Washington state plant.
The arrangement fits with Ryanair's "load factor active, yield passive" strategy - it cuts fares to ensure that each 
flight operates as close as possible to full.
EasyJet, by contrast, deliberately sought latitude from Airbus to delay or accelerate deliveries according to market 
conditions.
The airline also leases some of its fleet and terminates or extends the leases according to demand. The approach 
fits with easyJet's greater focus on ensuring new capacity is profitable.
Dame Carolyn McCall , easyJet's chief, insists the arrangement is a valuable safeguard.
While intending to expand capacity by 9 per cent in 2017 - a higher rate than the 6.6 per cent in the last financial 
year - easyJet is keeping its plans for the following three years under "regular and close review".
Dame Carolyn says: "If we see the numbers shifting or we see something that won't sustain that growth, we will be 
able to take that down". Robert Wright
Load-Date: November 16, 2016
End of Document
EasyJet risks the wrath of Sir Stelios as profits dip and capex soars
EasyJet risks the wrath of Sir Stelios as profits dip and capex soars
Financial Times (London, England)
November 16, 2016 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LOMBARD; Pg. 20
Length: 320 words
Byline: Jonathan Guthrie
Body
EasyJet plans to grow fast at the airport serving Venice, city of dreams and lovers. Also at Luton, town of industrial 
estates and Lorraine Chase, where the low-cost airline is headquartered. How will this play with Sir Stelios Haji-
Ioannou, shareholder of frosty communiqués and no-confidence votes? Badly, one fears.
EasyJet endured a stinker of a year. Terrorism closed some popular resorts in Muslim countries. Cheap fuel 
emboldened rivals to expand capacity. Weak sterling, in which easyJet reports, raised costs. Profits before tax 
crashed 28 per cent to £495m.
Yet the group, helmed by shrewd ex-Guardian boss Dame Carolyn McCall, plans to raise gross capex from £650m 
next year to more than £1bn in both 2018 and 2019. She wants to increase the fleet of Airbuses from 257 to more 
than 300. She believes the business, in which founder Sir Stelios controls 34 per cent of shares, will need more 
seats as legacy European airlines atrophy.
EasyJet has net cash of £213m and would shade into net debt only in 2018, the peak year for investment. The 
dividend payout is set at 50 per cent of post-tax profits.
Numis forecasts profits before tax of some £400m in 2017, equating to dividends 13.5p lower at 40.3p. The radars 
of stock market sky scanners are crowded with dangers. Perils include weakening UK confidence, political 
disruption to airline access agreements and further terrorism.
EasyJet risks the wrath of Sir Stelios as profits dip and capex soars
Dame Carolyn is doing a good job in tough circumstances. Shares trading at only a modest discount to Ryanair, 
whose business model is stronger, suggest many investors recognise that. There is countercyclical sense in her 
growth plan. The question is whether Sir Stelios and another 17 per cent of shareholders can still stomach it 
following such bad results.
The run-up to next February's annual meeting may otherwise resemble an altercation outside a Luton pub rather 
than a gondola ride along the Grand Canal.
jonathan.guthrie@ft.com 
Load-Date: November 15, 2016
End of Document
EasyJet profits drop on Brexit and terror fears Airlines
EasyJet profits drop on Brexit and terror fears; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
November 16, 2016 Wednesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 20
Length: 455 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Highlight: Budget carrier posts 28% fall as uncertainty reigns in year of shocks for sector
Body
EasyJet, the UK's biggest budget airline by sales, reported a 28 per cent decline in pre-tax profits for the past year 
as it grappled with economic uncertainty, terrorism, air traffic disruption and excess capacity.
Chief executive Dame Carolyn McCall called the performance "resilient" in a year of shocks for the sector.
The £495m pre-tax profit in the year to September 30 was down from £686m a year earlier but at the top end of the 
company's revised forecast range.
EasyJet was forced in June to issue a profit warning in the wake of the UK's vote to leave the EU. In October, it 
further trimmed pre-tax profit expectations, saying it anticipated a range of £490m to £495m.
Revenue declined 0.4 per cent to £4.67bn.
EasyJet's figures follow the third-quarter results from Ryanair, Europe's biggest budget airline by revenues, which 
recorded post-tax profits up 7 per cent to EUR1.17bn. EasyJet is the only significant airline to record its results in 
sterling and has consequently faced far bigger problems as a result of the fall in the value of the pound after the EU 
poll.
EasyJet profits drop on Brexit and terror fears Airlines
"EasyJet achieved a resilient performance in 2016, in the face of significant challenges including a series of 
external events and foreign exchange headwinds," Dame Carolyn said.
The company increased capacity on its flights by 6.5 per cent compared with the previous year, while the number of 
passengers carried rose 6.6 per cent, to 73.1m. Average load factors - the proportion of seats occupied on each 
flight - increased 0.1 percentage points to 91.6 per cent.
Dame Carolyn said that passengers had benefited from a third successive year of falling fares - revenue per seat 
declined 6.4 per cent to £58.46.
The company said it expected to increase capacity in the year to September 2017 by 9 per cent.
It also expected this year to spend £5m of the total £10m cost of acquiring an air operator's certificate in another EU 
country, to ensure the airline could continue operations between EU countries once the UK leaves the bloc. The 
airline already has an AOC in the UK and Switzerland.
"Looking ahead, the easyJet model remains strong, as does the demand environment and we continue to see 
opportunities in the medium term to grow revenue, profit and shareholder returns," Dame Carolyn said.
She added that almost half of the airline's growth next year would be in the UK, while there would also be 
"significant growth" in Switzerland, France and Italy.
The approach contrasts with that of Ryanair, Europe's biggest budget airline, which has reduced its planned growth 
in the UK and is concentrating on Germany in the wake of the Brexit vote.
Earnings per share declined 22 per cent to 108.7p, while the proposed dividend dropped 2.5 per cent to 53.8p.
See Lombard
Load-Date: November 15, 2016
End of Document
O'Leary forecasts airline shake-up on 'hard Brexit' fears Ryanair chief predicts major changes in carrier 
structures if UK is forced to leave European open skie....
O'Leary forecasts airline shake-up on 'hard Brexit' fears; Ryanair chief 
predicts major changes in carrier structures if UK is forced to leave 
European open skies system in future
Flight International
November 15, 2016
Copyright 2016 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AIR TRANSPORT
Length: 328 words
Body
Ryanair may be forced to create a new subsidiary to operate UK domestic flights if a “hard Brexit” comes to pass, 
chief executive Michael O’Leary says.
Speaking at a media briefing in London on 7 November, O’Leary suggested that under the “worst” outcome, the UK 
would be forced to leave the European open skies system as it exits the EU, which would prevent Ryanair as a 
European carrier from continuing to operate routes from London to Belfast, Edinburgh and Glasgow.
The Irish carrier would then need to establish a separate UK company, of which Ryanair would be able to own a 
maximum of 49.9%, O’Leary says.
He questions whether the UK would be able to reintroduce bilateral agreements. “It’s almost impossible to restore 
bilaterals because they’re based on flag carriers and most countries don’t have flag carriers anymore,” he says.
O’Leary speculates that in a hard Brexit scenario EasyJet’s exposure to the UK market would be “unsustainable” 
and require the airline to gain a European air operator’s certificate. He also sees a possibility that IAG – which owns 
Aer Lingus, BA, Iberia and Vueling – could be broken up under European ownership rules.
“BA/IAG gets broken up because you can’t have a British airline in the same ownership as three European airlines, 
because you have ownership restrictions as well as the AOCs,” he says.
“So I think either British Airways gets sold out by IAG and becomes a majority UK-owned airline or, alternatively, 
Iberia, Aer Lingus and Vueling get sold out of British Airways and IAG.”
If the UK remains part of the open skies area, however, O’Leary foresees “no change” in the ownership structures 
of Ryanair or UK carriers.
O'Leary forecasts airline shake-up on 'hard Brexit' fears Ryanair chief predicts major changes in carrier 
structures if UK is forced to leave European open skie....
Airlines have, he discloses, been invited to a “round table” discussion organised by the government department 
charged with negotiating the UK’s exit from the EU to discuss the impact this will have on their sector.
Outspoken CEO supported vote to remain ahead of EU referendum
Peter MacDiarmid/REX/Shutterstock
Load-Date: November 18, 2016
End of Document
Irish carrier has 'no desire' to push new 737's range to the Max
Irish carrier has 'no desire' to push new 737's range to the Max
Flight International
November 15, 2016
Copyright 2016 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: AIR TRANSPORT
Length: 149 words
Body
Michael O’Leary, the chief executive of Ryanair, has made the case against operating Boeing 737 Max 
narrowbodies on transatlantic routes.
O’Leary says he has “no desire” to use Ryanair’s on-order Max jets for US services, arguing: “You can only get to 
the East Coast and that’s not a soundly-based transatlantic area. You have to be able to get to both East Coast and 
West Coast.”
O’Leary declines to comment on Norwegian’s plans to deploy the Max across the Atlantic from June 2017, 
however.
Flight Fleets Analyzer shows Ryanair has ordered 100 737 Max 8s, of the Max 200 variant, and has options for 
another 100. Deliveries are to begin in 2019.
O’Leary says Ryanair paid a “small premium” to secure deliveries in that timeframe, but adds: “They have 4% more 
seats and 16% lower fuel costs on a per-passenger basis. We are happy to pay Boeing a premium for that.”
See World Airliners Directory P32
Load-Date: November 18, 2016
End of Document
ViaSat Acquires Ireland -based Arconics - Quick Facts
ViaSat Acquires Ireland-based Arconics - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
November 14, 2016 Monday
Copyright 2016 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 310 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Internet services provider ViaSat Inc. (VSAT) said it has acquired Arconics, an Ireland-based provider 
of software solutions to the aviation industry. Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed.
Arconics, registered as Aerodocs Limited in Ireland, offers enterprise software and mobile applications for aircraft 
operators.
ViaSat noted that through the acquisition, it will gain connected aircraft software, wireless in-flight entertainment, 
mobile applications and airline document management expertise. The company will also gain applications that will 
make entertaining passengers as well as opening new service and revenue opportunities for airlines possible.
The Arconics connected aircraft software platform enables the Arconics App Suite, which spans wireless In-flight 
Entertainment or IFE, Electronic Flight Bag or EFB, Airline Document Management and Cabin Management 
solutions, to communicate and share data with the aircraft.
Using available connectivity, it will also enable to connect with ground systems across mobile or avionics platforms.
Airline customers include Qatar Airways, Cathay Pacific, Ryanair, Aer Lingus, Philippine Airlines, Tigerair Australia, 
SpiceJet and others.
In connection with the acquisition, ViaSat will establish a presence in Dublin, Ireland, and will continue to build its 
operations in Sydney, Australia. More than 30 Arconics team members with both technical and business expertise 
will join ViaSat, including Arconics Chief Executive Officer Niall O'Sullivan.
The transaction is not expected to materially affect ViaSat adjusted pro forma earnings for fiscal year 2017. 
However, ViaSat has not completed its valuation analysis and, accordingly, has not determined the impact to its 
reported earnings.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2016 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 14, 2016
ViaSat Acquires Ireland -based Arconics - Quick Facts
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings Must Repay Illegal Austrian Airport Aid, European Commission Says
Ryanair Holdings Must Repay Illegal Austrian Airport Aid, European 
Commission Says
MT Newswires Live Briefs
November 11, 2016 Friday 12:28 PM EST
Copyright 2016 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 202 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) and German airline Tuifly must repay aid that they received illegally from the operator 
of the Klagenfurt airport in Austria, the European Commission said Friday.
The regulator said that "certain airport services and marketing agreements concluded between the airport operator 
and airlines Ryanair, HLX and Tuifly gave the latter an undue advantage, which cannot be justified under EU state 
aid rules," and that this must now be repaid.
"As no profit-driven airport manager would have concluded such loss-making agreements, they amount to state aid 
to the airlines," the Commission said. "Moreover, the agreements simply reduce the operating costs of the airlines, 
without contributing to common transport objectives. These agreements therefore distort competition in the single 
market in breach of EU state aid rules."
The Commission said the amounts of incompatible state aid are estimated at around EUR2 million ($2.2 million) for 
Ryanair and EUR1.1 million for Tuifly and they now have to pay these amounts back to Austria. In addition, HLX, 
which was merged with Hapagfly in 2007 into the new brand Tuifly, has to repay EUR9.6 million.
Price: 82.71, Change: +0.27, Percent Change: +0.33
Load-Date: November 12, 2016
End of Document
EU orders Ryanair to repay illegal Austrian airport aid
EU orders Ryanair to repay illegal Austrian airport aid
Business World (Digest)
November 11, 2016 Friday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 202 words
Byline: Sim Pinder
Body
EU state aid regulators have ordered Irish budget airline Ryanair and German travel company TUI's unit TUIfly to 
repay millions of euros in illegal aid given by an Austrian airport.
"Certain airport services and marketing agreements concluded between the airport operator and airlines Ryanair, 
HLX and TUIfly gave the latter an undue advantage, which cannot be justified under EU state aid rules," the 
European Commission said on Friday.
HLX merged with Hapagfly in 2007 into the new brand TUIfly.
"The amounts of incompatible state aid are estimated at around 2 million euros for Ryanair, 1.1 million euros for 
TUIfly and 9.6 million euros for HLX," the EU competition enforcer said. The companies will have to repay the 
money to Austria.
Ryanair said it would fight the EU ruling. TUIfly had no immediate comment.
The case concerns Klagenfurt airport in the south of Austria.
"We note the Klagenfurt decision, where we stopped flying in 2013. We disagree with the findings and have 
instructed our lawyers to appeal," a Ryanair spokesman said.
The Commission also found that aid granted to the airport by its public owners between 2000 and 2011 was in line 
with EU state aid rules. (Reuters)
 Source: www.businessworld.ie
EU orders Ryanair to repay illegal Austrian airport aid
Load-Date: November 21, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Capital International Ltd. CA
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Capital International Ltd. 
CA
DailyPolitical
November 11, 2016 Friday 9:16 PM EST
Copyright 2016 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 749 words
Byline: Patrick Bannon
Body
Nov 11, 2016( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  Capital International Ltd. CA 
boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 117.1% during the second quarter, 
according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The institutional investor 
owned 8,529 shares of the company's stock after buying an additional 4,600 shares during the period. 
Capital International Ltd. CA's holdings in Ryanair Holdings PLC were worth $593,000 at the end of the most recent 
quarter.  A number of other institutional investors have also recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. 
BlackRock Fund Advisors increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 11.9% in the first quarter. BlackRock 
Fund Advisors now owns 681,930 shares of the company's stock valued at $58,523,000 after buying an additional 
72,455 shares during the last quarter. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 
73.2% in the first quarter. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. now owns 102,713 shares of the company's stock valued at 
$8,815,000 after buying an additional 43,425 shares during the last quarter. HBK Investments L P increased its 
position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 111.2% in the first quarter. HBK Investments L P now owns 29,973 shares of 
the company's stock valued at $2,572,000 after buying an additional 15,780 shares during the last quarter. 
Bayesian Capital Management LP purchased a new position in Ryanair Holdings PLC during the first quarter valued 
at $254,000. Finally, Royal Bank of Canada increased its position in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 3.8% in the first 
quarter. Royal Bank of Canada now owns 1,409,151 shares of the company's stock valued at $120,934,000 after 
buying an additional 52,007 shares during the last quarter. 42.50% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other 
institutional investors. Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) traded up 0.17% on Friday, reaching 
$82.58. The company had a trading volume of 243,456 shares. The company has a 50 day moving average price of 
$74.00 and a 200 day moving average price of $75.50. The stock has a market capitalization of $20.72 billion, a PE 
ratio of 12.88 and a beta of 0.80. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 52-week low of $66.09 and a 52-week high of 
$89.67.   Several equities analysts have weighed in on RYAAY shares. Zacks Investment Research downgraded 
Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'hold' rating to a 'strong sell' rating in a research report on Tuesday, July 19th. 
Deutsche Bank AG downgraded Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on 
Wednesday, September 7th. Beaufort Securities reissued a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a 
research report on Wednesday, October 5th. BNP Paribas started coverage on Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research 
report on Thursday, October 13th. They set an 'outperform' rating for the company. Finally, HSBC raised Ryanair 
Holdings PLC from a 'reduce' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research report on Wednesday, November 2nd. Five 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and four have assigned a buy rating to the company. The company 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY) Shares Bought by Capital International Ltd. CA
has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and an average target price of $89.50. Ryanair Holdings PLC Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited (Ryanair). Ryanair operates an 
ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes between Ireland, the United 
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary services and engages in 
other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight scheduled services, Internet-
related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.Want to see what other hedge funds are 
holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the latest 13F filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings 
PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily - Enter your email address below to 
receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair Holdings PLC and related 
companies 
with 
MarketBeat.com's 
FREE 
daily 
email 
newsletter[3]. 
[ 
1]: 
http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]:            https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 3]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: November 11, 2016
End of Document
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 09.11.2016 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 09.11.2016 - 08.50 am
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 9, 2016 Wednesday 8:51 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 328 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - The following investment banks issued recommendations this morning as follows:  
Analyst recommendations in the dpa-AFX International ProFeed on 09.11.2016 - 08.50 am  - DEUTSCHE BANK 
CUTS ELRINGKLINGER PRICE TARGET TO 15 (19) EUR - 'HOLD' - DEUTSCHE BANK RAISES MORPHOSYS 
PRICE TARGET TO 84 (80) EUR - 'BUY' - GOLDMAN RAISES UNITED INTERNET PRICE TARGET TO 50 (47) 
EUR - 'BUY' - RPT/WARBURG RESEARCH CUTS JUNGHEINRICH PRICE TARGET TO 30 (31) EUR - 'HOLD'  - 
BERENBERG CUTS ENGIE TO 'HOLD' (BUY) - PRICE TARGET 13.50 (16.00) EUR - BERENBERG RAISES 
ELEMENTIS TO 'BUY' ('HOLD') - TARGET 270 (200) PENCE - BERENBERG RAISES ST JAMES'S PLACE 
PRICE TARGET TO 1150 (1010) PENCE - 'BUY' - GOLDMAN CUTS IMPERIAL BRANDS PRICE TARGET TO 
4,300 (4,340) PENCE - 'BUY' - GOLDMAN RAISES TATE & LYLE PRICE TARGET TO 750 (715) PENCE - 
'NEUTRAL' - GOLDMAN RAISES WIZZ AIR PRICE TARGET TO 1,753.20 (1,735.20) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL' - 
HSBC CUTS AIR FRANCE-KLM PRICE TARGET TO 4.00 (4.25) EUR - 'REDUCE' - HSBC RAISES AB FOODS 
PRICE TARGET TO 3300 (3150) PENCE - 'BUY' - HSBC RAISES BANCO SANTANDER PRICE TARGET TO 
4.49 (3.95) EUR - 'HOLD' - HSBC RAISES RYANAIR PRICE TARGET TO 13.50 (12.00) EUR - 'HOLD' - HSBC 
RAISES SWISS RE PRICE TARGET TO 105 (98) SFR - 'BUY' - RPT/COMMERZBANK RAISES 
ARCELORMITTAL PRICE TARGET TO 6.50 (6.00) EUR - 'HOLD' - S&P GLOBAL CUTS VESTAS TO 'HOLD' 
(BUY) - PRICE TARGET 500 (600) DKK  - TRADERS: CREDIT SUISSE RAISES PENNON GROUP TO 
'NEUTRAL' ('UNDERPERFORM') - TRADERS: EXANE BNP CUTS TATE & LYLE TO 'UNDERPERFORM' 
(NEUTRAL) - TRADERS: JEFFERIES CUTS BBVA TO 'HOLD' (BUY) - TRADERS: KEPLER CHEUVREUX 
RAISES AB FOODS TO 'HOLD' ('REDUCE') - TRADERS: MACQUARIE RAISES AMEC TO 'NEUTRAL' 
('UNDERPERFORM') - TRADERS: MERRILL LYNCH CUTS ARCELORMITTAL TO 'NEUTRAL' (BUY) - 
TRADERS: 
MORGAN 
STANLEY 
INITIATES 
POLYMETAL 
WITH 
'EQUAL-WEIGHT' 
 
dpa-AFX 
Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH assumes no liability for the  correctness of this information./rob    
Load-Date: November 9, 2016
dpa-AFX Overview: Analyst recommendations on 09.11.2016 - 08.50 am
End of Document
Ryanair launches digital gift voucher service for Christmas season
Ryanair launches digital gift voucher service for Christmas season
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 9, 2016 Wednesday 11:47 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 141 words
Highlight: Ryanair, Europe's favourite low fares airline, on 8 Nov launched an enhanced digital gift voucher 
service, the perfect gift this Christmas for family and friends looking to travel on one of Ryanair's 1,800 routes 
across Europe and North Africa.
Body
Ryanair’s digital gift vouchers, which can be personalised with a greeting of your choice, are available from 
denominations of &euro;25/&pound;25 upwards. Customers can also re-use the voucher with the remaining 
balance, as Ryanair continues its “Always Getting Better” programme which includes more new routes, new digital 
features, new cabin interiors and even more low fares. Ryanair’s Robin Kiely said: “Ryanair digital gift vouchers are 
always very popular at any time of the year, and can now be personalised with a dedicated greeting, making them 
the perfect gift to give this Christmas. They are available in all currencies, and valid for travel across Ryanair’s ever-
expanding route network, so log on to the Ryanair.com website today to give the gift of travel to a loved one this 
Christmas.”&nbsp;
Load-Date: November 9, 2016
End of Document
FANCY DOING THE "WORST JOB IN IRELAND ?"
FANCY DOING THE "WORST JOB IN IRELAND?"
City A.M.
November 9, 2016 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 51 words
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary is on the hunt for an assistant. Essential attributes include a thick skin, "saintlike" 
patience and the ability to "operate without sleep" according to the airline's careers site. A spokesperson said: 
"Much like our fares, it's unbelievable, but real." Don't all rush at once now.
Graphic
 
O'Leary is after a bright and ambitious qualified accountant to assist him
Load-Date: November 9, 2016
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Lower as Pharma Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
European ADRs Edge Lower as Pharma Stocks See Mixed Fortunes
MT Newswires Live Briefs
November 8, 2016 Tuesday 10:36 AM EST
Copyright 2016 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 224 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.37% lower at 115.89 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Tuesday morning. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by CGG (CGG),  a manufacturer of geophysical equipment, 27.3% lower 
after posting third quarter revenue of $264 million, down 9% quarter-on-quarter amid what it described as 
"persistently difficult market conditions". ArcelorMittal (MT), a Luxembourg steelmaker, was down by 7.5% and 
Swiss financial services company, Credit Suisse (CS), 2.5% lower. 
In the UK, Amec Foster Wheeler (AMFW), a global engineering conglomerate, was 2.7% lower, followed by Amarin 
(AMRN), a biopharmaceutical company, down by 2.4% and Adaptimmune Therapeutics (ADAP), a clinical-stage 
biopharmaceutical company, 2.3% lower. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Natuzzi (NTZ), an Italian furniture manufacturer, 3.3% higher, followed 
by Advanced Accelerator Applications (AAAP), a radiopharmaceutical company, up by 2.4% and Aixtron (AIXG),  a 
German provider of deposition equipment to the semiconductor industry, 1.8% higher. 
And, in the UK, Luxfer (LXFR), a materials technology company, was 2.0% higher, followed by GW 
Pharmaceuticals (GWPH), a biopharmaceutical company, up by 1.6% and low-cost airline Ryanair (RYAAY), 1.5% 
higher. 
Price: 1.50, Change: , Percent Change: 
Load-Date: November 10, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair : web spinning
Ryanair: web spinning
Financial Times (London, England)
November 8, 2016 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: LEX COLUMN; Pg. 14
Length: 327 words
Body
Spiders are the original networkers. Their carefully wrought weavings feed them from area traffic. So it goes with 
internet businesses, which ensnare both the casual browser and those hunting for a specific deal. Once, Ryanair 
might not have made the most of its online potential, but that time has past. Its website claims the highest traffic of 
any airline. Now this site is itself becoming a money-spinner.
Yesterday's interim report illustrated this. Ancillary revenues from its online ticket site, everything from reserved 
seat charges to hotel deals, have picked up to 22 per cent of sales. Growth here is so strong that the airline has 
revised its target to 30 per cent (from a fifth) by 2020. Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary wants to "disrupt" 
travel sites such as Priceline's Booking.com and TripAdvisor via his own Ryanair Rooms. He asserts Ryanair can 
win business from overcharged suppliers, passing savings to flyers via cheaper seats.
Whether these extra slugs of revenue will keep Ryanair's margins strong is another matter. Operating margins, 
estimated at 23 per cent in the full year to March, are at a decade high.
European capacity has expanded steadily, in no small part owing to Ryanair's new fleet nearly doubling its capacity 
by 2024. Partly as a result, per-passenger revenues have already dropped 8 per cent. Fares are expected to 
decline a tenth for the full year.
Mr O'Leary's organisation, though, has enough bend in its fibre to withstand any future storms. Ryanair's low unit 
costs have already compressed enough to accommodate the most recent deflation. Should operating profitability 
Ryanair : web spinning
return to the average of the past decade, around 15 per cent, Ryanair's taxed free cash flow would very likely 
remain positive.
Ryanair's latest prey are the intermediaries in the online travel industry. Mr O'Leary wants a sticky network, catching 
and holding its customers for the right reasons. This new business will help achieve his aim.
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair hikes forecast but still has Brexit blues
Ryanair hikes forecast but still has Brexit blues
City A.M.
November 8, 2016 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 264 words
Byline: CAITLÍN MORRISON; REBECCA SMITH
Body
BUDGET airline Ryanair reported an increase in profits during the first half of 2016, despite what boss Michael 
O'Leary described as "difficult market conditions" post-Brexit. Revenue rose two per cent in the three months to 30 
September, to (EURO)4.13bn (£3.68bn) from (EURO)4.04bn.
Profit after tax was up seven per cent, from (EURO)1.09bn this time last year to (EURO)1.17bn, and earnings per 
share rose 15 per cent to (EURO)0.92 from (EURO)0.80.
Investors had been braced for the weaker sterling to impact full-year profits and the airline warned last month that 
would be the case.
It has announced plans to return (EURO)550m to shareholders via a share buyback and hiked its long-term growth 
forecast by 10 per cent. Ryanair expects to carry 200m passengers per year by 2024. But it warned that weakened 
air fares and Brexit uncertainty will be "the dominant features" of the second half of the year.
The airline's chief executive told the BBC that while business was "booming", the environment was "bearish" after 
the vote to leave the EU in June.
O'Leary was particularly unimpressed with the government's handling of the proceedings, saying it had "no idea" as 
to how it will actually deliver Brexit.
He said Prime Minister Theresa May was "faffing around in India", when Brussels was the place she should be 
focusing on to get trade deals done. The Prime Minister is in India for her first bilateral trip outside of the EU, and 
vowed to "reboot" the relationship between the two nations.
Ryanair hikes forecast but still has Brexit blues
May plans to sign a raft of commercial deals while out there, expected to generate 1,370 jobs.
Graphic
 
Michael O'Leary was anti-Brexit
Load-Date: November 8, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair lifts growth forecast as profits rise Airlines
Ryanair lifts growth forecast as profits rise; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
November 8, 2016 Tuesday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 20
Length: 450 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Highlight: Carrier to cut fares amid 12% increase in estimates of passenger numbers
Body
Ryanair, Europe's biggest budget airline, increased its long-term growth forecast by more than 10 per cent as it said 
continued pressure on fares and falling costs would enable it to win more of the continent's air travel market.
The company made the projection yesterday after announcing better than expected half-year results that Michael 
O'Leary , chief executive, described as "creditable" despite a European air travel market facing uncertainties , 
including the UK's vote to leave the EU. Post-tax profits rose 7 per cent to EUR1.17bn on revenues up 2 per cent to 
EUR4.13bn.
The company raised its forecast for full-year passenger numbers to 119m - a 12 per cent increase on the year to 
March. That led it to forecast that it would carry 200m passengers annually by 2024, up from its previous forecast of 
180m.
Mr O'Leary said that the company's significant order book - it is due to receive about 40 new aircraft annually over 
the next eight years - meant it was bound to continue growing.
"We don't have discretion over the capacity," Mr O'Leary said. "We have discretion over how we allocate the 
capacity."
Ryanair lifts growth forecast as profits rise Airlines
Ryanair would continue to drive down ticket prices through its strategy of cutting fares to ensure its aircraft fly as full 
as possible. "The question for us is whether we can continue to drive down costs," he said.
Shares in Ryanair closed up 5 per cent in Dublin yesterday at EUR13.40.
The results follow a profit warning on October 18, when the company trimmed its forecast for profits for the year to 
March 2017 by around 5 per cent, to a range of EUR1.3bn-EUR1.35bn. The warning blamed the 18 per cent 
decline in sterling against the euro following June's Brexit vote. Ryanair, which is based in Dublin, expects to 
generate around 26 per cent of this year's revenue in sterling.
The company reiterated that, because of the uncertainty surrounding Brexit, it expected reduced economic growth 
in the UK and Europe more widely, and planned to shift some planned growth next year away from the UK towards 
mainland Europe.
Mr O'Leary, who campaigned for the UK to remain within the EU, said that it was difficult to forecast the long-term 
outcome of the Brexit process because ministers had no clear strategy. However, that meant that, for the time 
being, little had changed beyond the fall in sterling.
"It's a shambles and long may it continue to be a shambles," he said.
Average fares in the first half fell 10 per cent to EUR50, while passenger numbers grew 12 per cent to 65m.
Ryanair also announced a EUR550m programme of share buybacks over the three months to February. Mr O'Leary 
said that, thanks to recent declines in the share price, buybacks made more sense than dividend payments.
See Lex
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
End of Document
BUSINESS WATCH
BUSINESS WATCH
Wall Street Journal Abstracts
November 8, 2016 Tuesday
Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts All Rights Reserved
Section: B; Pg. 4
Length: 36 words
Byline: ROBERT WALL
Body
ABSTRACT
Ryanair Holdings raises its long term outlook for passenger growth to 200 million passengers annually by 2024 from 
180 million;  sales for July-September period rose 2% to 2.4 billion euros ($2.7 billion) (S)
Load-Date: November 8, 2016
End of Document
No Headline In Original
No Headline In Original
Flight International
November 8, 2016
Copyright 2016 Reed Business Information Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES
Length: 648 words
Body
Most airline pilots approach their annual recurrent training simulator time with apprehension. They perceive the 
exercise to be more about testing than training or learning, and with most airlines there is a lot of truth in that 
perception.
Some airlines provide more recurrent training than regulations require because flight operations data monitoring 
(FDM) – a requirement in Europe – flags up what crews need to practice. But still most train only to the legal 
minimums, partly for cost reasons, and partly because the compulsory exercises are defined – albeit based on 
aviation as it was in the 1970s.
gdsgfgsfsggfs
Additional training may be costly, but incidents, particularly related to shortcomings flagged up by FDM, could be 
even more expensive. At Ryanair, head of training Capt Andy O’Shea has come up with a solution: helping pilots to 
train themselves. At no cost, Ryanair pilots can book a fully capable flight simulation training device (FSTD) for the 
Boeing 737-800, and practice the skills they know they need to improve, with just a colleague in the other seat: no 
instructor and no “Big Brother” oversight.
Ryanair’s plan, already launched, is to bring on stream nine additional advanced fixed-base FSTDs beyond those 
needed to cope with growth. Three are already up and running, and early trials show it is popular with crews who 
have tried it – 96% say they would book the device again.
O’Shea has long wanted to give pilots the opportunity to develop their skills in their own time, but the carrier’s 
investment in sophisticated equipment has to be justified. So he needed a scheme to discourage misuse that might 
result in what he calls a “negative training” experience. That is, how can Ryanair give pilots the freedom to learn but 
discourage them from barrel-rolling a 737-800 for fun, all while convincing them that Big Brother isn’t watching?
A compromise is suggested in the programme’s name: Ryanair Controlled Training. The pilots who voluntarily book 
the simulator time will be alone and unwatched in the device. It has a normal, fully capable instructor operating 
station, but that does not have to be manned. When pilots book the session, they can choose from a menu of 
No Headline In Original
“lesson plans” entailing an origin, a destination and flight plan, and they upload it to the simulator when they start 
the session.
Pilots start by loading the simulator with the payload and weather data they need to derive performance figures for 
the “flight and “take off”. They don’t know what else will happen en-route: but things will.
If the crew has trouble with a scenario, they can freeze the simulator and discuss it, or try again. Sessions are 
recorded but O’Shea says: “We have no desire or intention to review each session for video or FDM events. Our 
hope is that crews come to the FTD, practice their skills, improve their knowledge and leave feeling good about 
themselves.”
fdsfdsfdsdfssfd
So if exceeding FDM limits will not trigger the curiosity of the Ryanair training department, what would? One event 
is straying outside the 737’s flight envelope; that freezes the simulator, which then has to be re-set. Why that occurs 
would matter. For example, upset prevention training (UPT) is programmed into some lesson plans, but recovery 
from extreme attitudes is not.
Usage so far shows bookings by captains at 19% of the total, first officers 37%, and cadets 44%. O’Shea says the 
new system provides a whole array of motivations for voluntary pilot bookings, including: maintaining handling or 
raw data flying skills, UPT, left-hand seat practice for prospective captains, right-hand seat practice for prospective 
instructors, and improving recurrent simulator training core competencies.
McCaren/LNP/REX/Shutterstock
sector
Quote – text. The style for quotes. Put a hard return at end of each line for the rule”
XxxxxUs atquisse parum fugitatur, et audis mod expero to bla venisci anim
Load-Date: November 8, 2016
End of Document
QUOTE OF THE DAY
QUOTE OF THE DAY
City A.M.
November 8, 2016 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 12
Length: 17 words
Body
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary said business was booming but attacked the PM over her post-Brexit policy
Load-Date: November 8, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair shares surge on plans to carry 200 million by 2024
Ryanair shares surge on plans to carry 200 million by 2024
Associated Press Financial Wire
November 7, 2016 Monday 12:58 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS
Length: 383 words
Byline: By SHAWN POGATCHNIK, Associated Press
Dateline: DUBLIN 
Body
DUBLIN (AP) - Ryanair shares rose 5 percent on Monday after Europe's top budget airline said it expects to carry 
more than 200 million passengers annually by 2024, 11 percent higher than previously forecast.
The Dublin-based carrier offered the stronger long-term outlook as part of its half-year results for the tourism-driven 
April-September period, when the airline carries the bulk of its customers.
Ryanair shook off last month's profits warning pegged to the summer slide in the value of the British pound 
following the United Kingdom referendum to leave the European Union. Ireland is in the euro currency zone but 
Ryanair does 26 percent of its business in Britain, where customers pay for products priced in sterling.
The airline said it carried 65 million passengers in the first half of the fiscal year, a 12 percent gain versus April-
September 2015. Sales increased 2 percent to 4.1 billion euros ($4.6 billion) while net profit rose 7 percent to nearly 
1.19 billion euros ($1.32 billion).
Ryanair expects to carry a company-record 119 million passengers in this fiscal year as the airline pursues a 
strategy of relentless expansion across the continent, most prominently Germany.
Chief Executive Michael O'Leary says Ryanair plans this winter to expand services in Berlin and Frankfurt and open 
six new bases in the German cities of Hamburg and Nuremburg as well as Bucharest, Romania; Prague, Czech 
Republic; Vilnius, Lithuania, and Bournemouth on England's south coast.
O'Leary said he stood by the airline's negatively revised profits forecast issued in mid-October anticipating net 
profits of 1.3 billion euros to 1.35 billion euros when full-year fiscal 2017 earnings are published in May. He said 
profits would be constrained by the airline's policy of filling aircraft by offering steeply discounted fares when 
necessary.
Fares fell 10 percent in the April-September period to an average price of 50 euros ($55.35) per one-way ticket, an 
approach that allowed Ryanair to set a new load factor record of 95 percent of seats sold.
Ryanair shares surge on plans to carry 200 million by 2024
Ryanair shares surged on the Irish Stock Exchange to a 4 1/2-month high of 13.54 euros, nearly reaching a level 
last seen hours before the U.K. vote June 23 to leave the EU. The shares were at 13.42 euros ($14.85) in midday 
trading, up 5.1 percent on the day.
Load-Date: November 8, 2016
End of Document
European Stocks Rise Led by Banks, Miners After FBI Clears Clinton on E-Mails
European Stocks Rise Led by Banks, Miners After FBI Clears Clinton on E-
Mails
MT Newswires Live Briefs
November 7, 2016 Monday 5:26 AM EST
Copyright 2016 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 392 words
Body
 European stocks were higher on Monday morning amid speculation that Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton might 
be getting closer to winning the US presidential race after the FBI cleared her of any wrongdoing in connection with 
her use of a private e-mail server for work when she was Secretary of State. 
The FBI said on Sunday it concluded a probe into newly discovered e-mails and found no reason to change its July 
conclusion that it found no evidence of criminal conduct and it won't prosecute her, according to news reports. 
Stock were up even as a report by Destatis, Germany's statistics office showed that new orders in manufacturing 
decreased 0.6% in September from August with both domestic and export orders falling. 
Oil prices were also supportive of equity markets after Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) 
Secretary General Mohammed Barkindo said Russia is "on board" with an OPEC agreement to limit crude oil 
production to stabilize the market, Bloomberg reported. OPEC has yet to agree on the details of the plan and is 
scheduled to meet on November 30 to do so.
Brent, the international crude benchmark, rose 1.3% to $46.18 per barrel and the US West Texas Intermediate 
gained 1.7% to $44.81 a barrel at the time of writing.
In equities, mining companies advanced, with BHP Billion (BHP) rising 4% and Antofagasta (ANTO.L) up 3.9% in 
London.  High street bank HSBC (HSBC) gained 4% with the rest of the European financial services sector even 
after it said third-quarter reported profit before tax tumbled 86% after booking a loss on the sale of its Brazilian 
business. Natixis (KN.PA) rose 3.7% in Paris and Deutsche Bank advanced 3.3% in Frankfurt. BNP Paribas 
(BNP.PA)  added 3.5%,  Sociate Generale (GLE.PA)  gained 2.3% in Paris. 
European Stocks Rise Led by Banks, Miners After FBI Clears Clinton on E-Mails
Irish low-cost airline Ryanair (RYA.L) gained 5.3% in London after the budget carrier raised its long-term passenger 
forecast. Symrise (SY1.DE), a German supplier of fragrances, flavorings and cosmetic active ingredients, rose 
26%, making it the best performer on the benchmark STOXX 600. 
The pan-European STOXX 600 index rose 1.2%, its biggest jump in more than a month, after falling for 10 out of its 
last 11 sessions. The euro-region blue-chip STOXX 50 index rose 1.7% and the DAX in Frankfurt was up by 1.7%. 
The FTSE 100 in London rose 1.5% and the CAC 40 in Paris gained 1.8%. 
Load-Date: November 10, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair Approves $610 Million Share Buyback, Second Quarter Earnings, Revenue Rise
Ryanair Approves $610 Million Share Buyback, Second Quarter Earnings, 
Revenue Rise
MT Newswires Live Briefs
November 7, 2016 Monday 6:13 AM EST
Copyright 2016 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 375 words
Body
 [The headline of this article has been corrected to state that the share buyback is worth $610 million from an earlier 
version which stated $610 billion.]
Irish low-cost airline Ryanair (RYA.LO) said that it had approved its eighth share buyback on Monday after posting 
gains in its second quarter earnings and revenue and ramping up its forecast for annual passenger volumes 
through to 2024.
The group, which operates 1,800 daily routes and connects 33 countries, generated total operating revenues from 
continuing operations of 2.44 billion euros ($2.70 billion) in the three months ended September 30, according to 
results published on Monday. This marked a 2% increase on the prior year period. Pre-tax profit rose by 6% to 1.02 
billion euros and diluted earnings per share rose 17% to 72.34 cents over the same time-frames.  
The company said that a 550 million euro share buyback had been approved by its board over the four-month 
period from November 2016 to February 2017. It said that it now expects to carry just over 119 million customers in 
the fiscal year 2017 and said that this stronger growth requires it to raise its "long-term traffic forecast by over 10% 
from 180 million to over 200 million customers per annum by March 2024." 
Going forward, it said that it  remains "cautious" in its outlook for fiscal year 2017 and reiterated its revised full year 
guidance for profit to rise to a range of 1.30 billion to 1.35 billion euros. 
The group said that uncertainty over the final outcome of the UK's departure negotiations with the European Union 
(EU) following the nation's referendum decision to exit the EU,  would continue to overhang its business for fiscal 
year 2018. 
The group generates approximately 26% of its revenues from the UK and said that it expects to see weaker Sterling 
and slower economic growth both in the UK and in Europe. As a result, it said that it had reduced its planned UK 
Ryanair Approves $610 Million Share Buyback, Second Quarter Earnings, Revenue Rise
growth in 2017 from 12% to approximately 5%, and switched this capacity to accelerate growth in markets such as 
Italy, where it said that the the government had cut taxes, Germany, where it said that incumbent carriers continue 
to restructure, and other markets such as Belgium, where it said that competitors are closing routes and bases.
Load-Date: November 10, 2016
End of Document
European ADRs Edge Higher as Consumer Stocks Advance
European ADRs Edge Higher as Consumer Stocks Advance
MT Newswires Live Briefs
November 7, 2016 Monday 10:32 AM EST
Copyright 2016 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 204 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 1.2% higher at 115.81 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Monday morning. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Flamel Technologies (FLML), a French pharmaceutical company, 8.0% 
higher, followed by Natuzzi (NTZ),  an Italian furniture manufacturer, up by 4.4% and ArcelorMittal (MT), a 
Luxembourg steelmaker, up by 4.1%. 
In the UK, low-cost airline operator Ryanair (RYAAY) was 5.4% higher after approving its eighth share buyback, 
posting gains in its second quarter earnings and revenue and ramping up its forecast for annual passenger volumes 
through 2024. High street bank HSBC (HSBC) and Amarin (AMRN), a biopharmaceutical company, were both 4.3% 
higher. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by Edap (EDAP), a French medical devices developer, and Cellectis 
(CLLS), a French genome engineering company, both 2.2% lower, followed by Nabriva Therapeutics (NBRV), an 
Austria-based clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, down by 2.1%. 
And, in the UK, gold mining major Randgold Resources (GOLD) was 1.9% lower, followed by National Grid (NGG),  
an electricity and gas utility company, 0.8% lower. 
Price: 10.13, Change: +0.61, Percent Change: +6.41
Load-Date: November 10, 2016
End of Document
European shares led higher by banks
European shares led higher by banks
Business World (Digest)
November 07, 2016 Monday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: EU; World
Length: 384 words
Byline: Business World
Body
European shares rallied on Monday, underpinned by stronger banking stocks, as news that Hillary Clinton would 
not face charges over her use of emails gave her bid for the White House fresh momentum just before the Nov. 8 
vote.
By 0922 GMT, the STOXX 600 was up 1.4%. Last week the pan-European index made its biggest weekly loss 
since February on growing uncertainty over the U.S. vote's outcome.
But Clinton got a fresh boost over Republican rival Donald Trump after the FBI said on Sunday it stood by its earlier 
finding that no criminal charges were warranted.
"With this result being seen as a positive for her chances of winning tomorrow's election, the market has opened 
with a risk-on tone," Rabobank analysts wrote in a note.
While no sector was trading in the red, banks led the gainers, helped by a more than 4% surge in HSBC . The 
emerging markets-focused bank had posted a sharp jump in its core capital, bolstering the outlook for near-term 
dividend payments.
"The key feature of the numbers is the reported CT1 (core tier 1 ratio) of 13.9% and leverage ratio of 5.4%, 
substantially ahead of expectations and management's target," said UBS, which rates the stock as "neutral."
Italy's Intesa, BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank rose between 2.6% and 3.4%. Analysts had said banks would suffer 
in particular by any policy uncertainty created by a Trump presidency.
European shares led higher by banks
Ryanair, up 5.6%, was another gainer after a well-received earnings update. Europe's largest carrier by passengers 
cut its annual profit forecast due to a weaker pound, but said it expected to boost its market share in the coming 
months by selling more tickets at cheaper prices.
The top STOXX gainer was PostNL, gaining 5.8%, after the Dutch postal company rebuffed a raised takeover offer 
from Belgian rival Bpost, saying it wished to remain an independent group.
Among top losers were Zalando, which fell more than 2% following a two-notch downgraded to "sell" from UBS, and 
precious metals miners Fresnillo and Randgold , which were supported last week as investors sought safe haven 
assets due to concerns over the U.S. vote's outcome.
Analysts at Deutsche Bank said a Clinton victory could lift Europe's STOXX index by around 5%, while uncertainty 
linked to a Trump win could see it fall 5-10%. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: November 15, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair lifts passenger growth forecast as price war hits rivals
Ryanair lifts passenger growth forecast as price war hits rivals
Business World (Digest)
November 07, 2016 Monday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND
Length: 561 words
Byline: Robert McHugh
Body
Budget airline Ryanair raised its long-term passenger growth forecast by 10% on Monday to 200 million travelers a 
year by 2024, saying it planned to take advantage as intense fare competition forces higher-cost rivals to retrench.
It also announced it would return an additional 550 million euros to shareholders by February in a share buyback, a 
move that helped lift its share price by 6%.
Ryanair cut its profit forecast last month by 5% for the year to March due to sterling weakness and lower average 
fares, but it still expects to outperform most rivals by increasing profits by 7% in the year to the end of March.
With the lowest cost base in the industry and a strategy of filling planes irrespective of air fares, it says it is uniquely 
positioned to take advantage of current low fares to boost market share.
"We have EU incumbents retrenching, restructuring...creating more and more opportunities for Ryanair, particularly 
in primary airports," Chief Executive Michael O'Leary said in a video presentation.
"The second half of the year will be difficult in a weaker pricing environment, but we expect that with a huge cost 
advantage over every other carrier in Europe, Ryanair is well positioned to continue to grow strongly."
Ryanair said it plans to grow capacity by 13% this winter compared to an industry average increase of around 9% - 
the highest level of capacity growth in the industry in a decade.
Already Europe's largest carrier by passenger numbers, Ryanair said it hopes to lift its share of the European short-
haul market from 15% to over 20% by 2024. It will defer the retirement of around 40 planes to boost capacity to 585 
Boeing Co 737 airliners by 2024.
Ryanair lifts passenger growth forecast as price war hits rivals
Ryanair shares have outperformed many of their peers in recent months as the sector struggled to come to terms 
with Britain's vote to leave the European Union and a flood of capacity that has driven down prices.
Its share price of 13.42 euros at 0956 GMT was 2% below its level before Britain's vote to leave the European 
Union was announced, compared to a fall of around 20% in the European airline sector as a whole.
Profit after tax for the six months to the end of September was 1.17 billion euros, in line with analyst forecasts.
British Airways owner IAG stuck to its main long-term earnings and margin growth targets on Friday but scaled back 
its plans to expand capacity.
Budget rival easyJet warned in October that annual profit had fallen by more than a quarter and hinted that trading 
would remain tough.
While a sharp fall in fuel prices in the past two years has allowed airlines to cut prices, Ryanair managed to cut non-
fuel per-passenger costs by 5% compared to last year, in part by cutting the number of empty seats on flights.
O'Leary said Ryanair was also benefiting from cheaper financing and lower plane costs thanks to its size.
While Ryanair built its business by striking low-cost deals with small airports far from city centers, by the end of this 
year it will for the first time be flying mainly to primary airports.
Last week it announced plans to fly from Lufthansa's home hub of Frankfurt.
The Airports Council International Europe trade body on Monday described Ryanair's move into Frankfurt as a 
"turning point for European air travel" as low-cost carriers increasingly compete with legacy rivals at the continent's 
largest airports. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
Load-Date: November 15, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair H1 Profit Down, Revenues Rise; Says Cautious In FY17 Outlook
Ryanair H1 Profit Down, Revenues Rise; Says Cautious In FY17 Outlook
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 7, 2016 Monday 7:23 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 294 words
Body
       DUBLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported Monday that its first-
half profit after tax declined to 1.17 billion euros from last year's 1.41 billion euros. Earnings per share fell to 91.76 
euro cents from 102.66 euro cents a year ago.  The prior year results included an exceptional accounting gain of 
317.5 million euros on sale of Aer Lingus shareholding. 
Excluding the item, profit increased 7 percent, and earnings per share grew 15 percent.  Total operating revenues - 
continuing operations grew 2% to 4.13 billion euros from 4.04 billion euros last year.  The company noted that lower 
fares delivered 12% traffic growth to 64.8 million customers and a 2% jump in load factor to 95%.   Average fares 
fell 10% to 50 euros, however first-half unit costs also fell by 10%.  The results were achieved amid the difficult 
market conditions due to repeated ATC strikes, terror events, and the adverse economic impact of the Brexit vote in 
June which saw Sterling weaken materially over the peak summer period, the company said.  Looking ahead, the 
company said it remains cautious in outlook for fiscal 2017.   The company expects fares will continue to fall, and 
unit costs will fall by approximately 3% this year.  The company expects to carry just over 119 million customers in 
FY17 and this stronger growth requires it to raise long term traffic forecast by over 10% from 180m to over 200m 
customers p.a. by March 2024.  Further, the company said the uncertainty over Brexit, and the final outcome of the 
UK's departure negotiations with the European Union, will continue to overhang its business for fiscal 2018. The 
company expects to see weaker Sterling and slower economic growth in both the UK and Europe.      
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
End of Document
European Markets Rallied After FBI Cleared Hillary Clinton
European Markets Rallied After FBI Cleared Hillary Clinton
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 7, 2016 Monday 5:56 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 756 words
Body
       VIENNA (dpa-AFX) - The European markets ended the first session of the new trading week with a strong gain. 
Following the weak performance of the previous week, the markets jumped in early trade and settled into a 
sideways trend for the rest of the session. Banks stocks turned in a strong performance following a solid earnings 
report from HSBC. Airlines were also among the gainers after a strong report from Ryanair. 
 Investors cheered the news that the FBI has once again cleared U.S. Democratic presidential nominee Hillary 
Clinton of criminal charges related to her use of a private email server while Secretary of State.  'Based on our 
review, we have not changed our conclusions that we expressed in July with respect to Secretary Clinton,' FBI 
Director James Comey wrote in a letter sent to members of Congress on Sunday.  Late last month, Comey 
revealed that the FBI re-opened its probe of Clinton after learning of the existence of new emails on a device 
obtained in connection with an unrelated investigation.  U.S. officials familiar with the case said told the Washington 
Post the new emails were either personal or duplicative of those found earlier.  The pan-European Stoxx Europe 
600 index advanced 1.41 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip stocks increased 1.85 percent, 
while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major U.K. companies, added 1.45 percent.  The DAX of 
Germany climbed 1.93 percent and the CAC 40 of France rose 1.91 percent. The FTSE 100 of the U.K. gained 1.70 
percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 1.87 percent.  In Frankfurt, Deutsche Bank climbed 4.82 
percent and Commerzbank rose 5.01 percent.  Daimler advanced 2.28 percent and BMW added 2.09 percent.  In 
Paris, Renault rose 2.96 percent on news that the car maker plans to open a manufacturing plant in Pakistan by 
2018. Peugeot also added 2.97 percent.  BNP Paribas increased 3.73 percent and Societe Generale gained 3.49 
percent. Credit Agricole also finished higher by 2.23 percent.  In London, HSBC Holding climbed 4.62 percent after 
the lender reported a third-quarter pre-tax profit that beat analysts' estimates.  Mining giant Rio Tinto gained 3.57 
percent after an annual tender of diamonds from its Argyle mine in Western Australia achieved the highest average 
price per carat since the tender began in 1984.  Irish no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings jumped 4.97 percent after 
reporting a 7 percent increase in half yearly after tax profits, and lifting its long-term traffic growth forecast by 10 
percent.  PostNL rallied 3.80 percent in Amsterdam after the postal company rejected a raised takeover offer from 
Belgian rival Bpost.  Eurozone investor confidence strengthened to a 11-month high in November, survey data from 
Sentix showed Monday. The Sentix investor confidence index rose to 13.1 from 8.5 in October. The score was well 
European Markets Rallied After FBI Cleared Hillary Clinton
above the expected level of 8.9.  Eurozone retail sales annual growth slowed for a second straight month in 
September to mark its weakest pace in two years, preliminary data from Eurostat showed Monday. Retail sales 
grew a calendar adjusted 1.1 percent year-on-year following 1.2 percent increase in August, revised sharply from 
0.6 percent. Economists had forecast a gain of 1.2 percent.  German factory orders contracted unexpectedly in 
September, largely reflecting weak domestic demand and orders from euro area, figures from Destatis showed 
Monday. Factory orders fell 0.6 percent in September from August, when they grew by a revised 0.9 percent. This 
was the first fall in three months and the biggest since April. Orders were forecast to grow 0.2 percent.  Germany's 
construction sector expanded at the fastest pace in six months in October, driven by solid growth in housing and 
commercial activity, survey figures from IHS Markit showed Monday. The construction Purchasing Managers' Index, 
or PMI, rose to 52.9 in October from 52.4 in the previous month.  U.K. house prices increased at a slower pace in 
October, data published by the mortgage lender Halifax showed Monday.  In three months to October, house prices 
climbed 5.2 percent from previous year, following a 5.8 percent rise in three months to September. October's 5.2 
percent was the lowest yearly growth rate since July 2013.  The U.K. private sector growth picked up in the three 
months to October, the latest growth indicator from the Confederation of British Industry showed Sunday. The 
growth indicator rose to +8 percent from +3 percent in three months to September.      
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
End of Document
European Shares Rally As FBI Closes Clinton Email Probe
European Shares Rally As FBI Closes Clinton Email Probe
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 7, 2016 Monday 11:33 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 391 words
Body
       VIENNA (dpa-AFX) - European stocks are rallying on Monday, as the FBI's dramatic climbdown on an 
investigation into the alleged email scandal boosted Hillary Clinton's odds of winning the U.S. presidential election 
and HSBC posted a surprise jump in adjusted third-quarter pretax profit.  The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 
index is currently up 1.2 percent at 332.71 in late opening deals after losing 0.8 percent in the previous session.   
The German DAX is rallying 1.6 percent, France's CAC 40 index is moving up 1.8 percent and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 
is up 1.3 percent. 
  Banks are among the best performers, with HSBC Holding shares climbing 4.5 percent after the lender reported a 
third-quarter pre-tax profit that beat analysts' estimates.  Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank, Credit Agricole, BNP 
Paribas, Societe Generale Group, Unicredit and BBVA are up 2-4 percent.  PostNL shares are rallying 5.5 percent 
after the Dutch postal company rejected a raised takeover offer from Belgian rival Bpost.  Mining giant Rio Tinto is 
gaining 3 percent in London after an annual tender of diamonds from its Argyle mine in Western Australia achieved 
the highest average price per carat since the tender began in 1984.  Irish no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings is adding 
5 percent on reporting a 7 percent increase in half yearly after tax profits, and lifting its long-term traffic growth 
forecast by 10 percent.  Renault shares are up 2.5 percent in Paris on news that the French car maker plans to 
open a manufacturing plant in Pakistan by 2018.  In economic releases, figures from Destatis showed that German 
factory orders contracted unexpectedly in September largely due to a fall in domestic demand. Factory orders fell 
0.6 percent from August, when it grew by revised 0.9 percent.  Separately, survey figures from IHS Markit showed 
that activity in German construction sector expanded at the fastest pace in six months in October, driven by solid 
growth in housing and commercial activity.  The euro zone investor confidence index produced by the Frankfurt-
based Sentix group rose to an 11-month high of 13.1 in November from 8.5 in October.  The pound slipped back 
below $1.24 as the dollar strengthened and data published by mortgage lender Halifax showed that U.K. house 
prices increased at a slower pace in the three months to October.      
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
European Shares Rally As FBI Closes Clinton Email Probe
End of Document
FTSE 100 Rallies After FBI Clears Clinton; HSBC Shares Up Over 4%
FTSE 100 Rallies After FBI Clears Clinton; HSBC Shares Up Over 4%
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 7, 2016 Monday 11:07 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 216 words
Body
       VIENNA (dpa-AFX) - U.K. shares are rallying on Monday, as the FBI's clean chit to Hillary Clinton in the 
bureau's investigation into the alleged email scandal boosted her odds of winning the presidential election and 
HSBC posted a surprise jump in adjusted third-quarter pretax profit.  The pound slipped back below $1.24 as the 
dollar strengthened and data published by mortgage lender Halifax showed that U.K. house prices increased at a 
slower pace in the three months to October. 
 The benchmark FTSE 100 is currently up 89 points or 1.34 percent at 6,782 in opening deals, on track to snap its 
six-day losing streak.   HSBC Holding shares are up 4.5 percent after the lender reported a third-quarter pre-tax 
profit that beat analysts' estimates.  Rio Tinto is rallying 3 percent after an annual tender of diamonds from its 
Argyle mine in Western Australia achieved the highest average price per carat since the tender began in 1984.  
Irish no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings is adding 5 percent on reporting a 7 percent increase in half yearly after tax 
profits, and lifting its long-term traffic growth forecast by 10 percent.  Informa shares are up half a percent. In its 
nine-month trading update, the publishing firm said it remains on track to meet its full-year expectations.      
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair H1 Profit Down, Revenues Rise; Says Cautious In FY17 Outlook
Ryanair H1 Profit Down, Revenues Rise; Says Cautious In FY17 Outlook
RTT News (United States)
November 7, 2016 Monday
Copyright 2016 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 305 words
Body
(RTTNews) - Irish no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) reported Monday that its first-half profit 
after tax declined to 1.17 billion euros from last year's 1.41 billion euros. Earnings per share fell to 91.76 euro cents 
from 102.66 euro cents a year ago.
The prior year results included an exceptional accounting gain of 317.5 million euros on sale of Aer Lingus 
shareholding. Excluding the item, profit increased 7 percent, and earnings per share grew 15 percent.
Total operating revenues - continuing operations grew 2% to 4.13 billion euros from 4.04 billion euros last year.
The company noted that lower fares delivered 12% traffic growth to 64.8 million customers and a 2% jump in load 
factor to 95%.
Average fares fell 10% to 50 euros, however first-half unit costs also fell by 10%.
The results were achieved amid the difficult market conditions due to repeated ATC strikes, terror events, and the 
adverse economic impact of the Brexit vote in June which saw Sterling weaken materially over the peak summer 
period, the company said.
Looking ahead, the company said it remains cautious in outlook for fiscal 2017.
The company expects fares will continue to fall, and unit costs will fall by approximately 3% this year.
The company expects to carry just over 119 million customers in FY17 and this stronger growth requires it to raise 
long term traffic forecast by over 10% from 180m to over 200m customers p.a. by March 2024.
Further, the company said the uncertainty over Brexit, and the final outcome of the UK's departure negotiations with 
the European Union, will continue to overhang its business for fiscal 2018. The company expects to see weaker 
Sterling and slower economic growth in both the UK and Europe.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2016 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
Ryanair H1 Profit Down, Revenues Rise; Says Cautious In FY17 Outlook
End of Document
European Markets Rallied After FBI Cleared Hillary Clinton
European Markets Rallied After FBI Cleared Hillary Clinton
RTT News (United States)
November 7, 2016 Monday
Copyright 2016 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 763 words
Body
(RTTNews) - The European markets ended the first session of the new trading week with a strong gain. Following 
the weak performance of the previous week, the markets jumped in early trade and settled into a sideways trend for 
the rest of the session. Banks stocks turned in a strong performance following a solid earnings report from HSBC. 
Airlines were also among the gainers after a strong report from Ryanair.
Investors cheered the news that the FBI has once again cleared U.S. Democratic presidential nominee Hillary 
Clinton of criminal charges related to her use of a private email server while Secretary of State.
"Based on our review, we have not changed our conclusions that we expressed in July with respect to Secretary 
Clinton," FBI Director James Comey wrote in a letter sent to members of Congress on Sunday.
Late last month, Comey revealed that the FBI re-opened its probe of Clinton after learning of the existence of new 
emails on a device obtained in connection with an unrelated investigation.
U.S. officials familiar with the case said told the Washington Post the new emails were either personal or duplicative 
of those found earlier.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index advanced 1.41 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 index of eurozone bluechip 
stocks increased 1.85 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 50 index, which includes some major U.K. companies, 
added 1.45 percent.
The DAX of Germany climbed 1.93 percent and the CAC 40 of France rose 1.91 percent. The FTSE 100 of the U.K. 
gained 1.70 percent and the SMI of Switzerland finished higher by 1.87 percent.
In Frankfurt, Deutsche Bank climbed 4.82 percent and Commerzbank rose 5.01 percent.
Daimler advanced 2.28 percent and BMW added 2.09 percent.
In Paris, Renault rose 2.96 percent on news that the car maker plans to open a manufacturing plant in Pakistan by 
2018. Peugeot also added 2.97 percent.
BNP Paribas increased 3.73 percent and Societe Generale gained 3.49 percent. Credit Agricole also finished 
higher by 2.23 percent.
European Markets Rallied After FBI Cleared Hillary Clinton
In London, HSBC Holding climbed 4.62 percent after the lender reported a third-quarter pre-tax profit that beat 
analysts' estimates.
Mining giant Rio Tinto gained 3.57 percent after an annual tender of diamonds from its Argyle mine in Western 
Australia achieved the highest average price per carat since the tender began in 1984.
Irish no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings jumped 4.97 percent after reporting a 7 percent increase in half yearly after 
tax profits, and lifting its long-term traffic growth forecast by 10 percent.
PostNL rallied 3.80 percent in Amsterdam after the postal company rejected a raised takeover offer from Belgian 
rival Bpost.
Eurozone investor confidence strengthened to a 11-month high in November, survey data from Sentix showed 
Monday. The Sentix investor confidence index rose to 13.1 from 8.5 in October. The score was well above the 
expected level of 8.9.
Eurozone retail sales annual growth slowed for a second straight month in September to mark its weakest pace in 
two years, preliminary data from Eurostat showed Monday. Retail sales grew a calendar adjusted 1.1 percent year-
on-year following 1.2 percent increase in August, revised sharply from 0.6 percent. Economists had forecast a gain 
of 1.2 percent.
German factory orders contracted unexpectedly in September, largely reflecting weak domestic demand and orders 
from euro area, figures from Destatis showed Monday. Factory orders fell 0.6 percent in September from August, 
when they grew by a revised 0.9 percent. This was the first fall in three months and the biggest since April. Orders 
were forecast to grow 0.2 percent.
Germany's construction sector expanded at the fastest pace in six months in October, driven by solid growth in 
housing and commercial activity, survey figures from IHS Markit showed Monday. The construction Purchasing 
Managers' Index, or PMI, rose to 52.9 in October from 52.4 in the previous month.
U.K. house prices increased at a slower pace in October, data published by the mortgage lender Halifax showed 
Monday.
In three months to October, house prices climbed 5.2 percent from previous year, following a 5.8 percent rise in 
three months to September. October's 5.2 percent was the lowest yearly growth rate since July 2013.
The U.K. private sector growth picked up in the three months to October, the latest growth indicator from the 
Confederation of British Industry showed Sunday. The growth indicator rose to +8 percent from +3 percent in three 
months to September.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2016 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 9, 2016
End of Document
FTSE 100 Rallies After FBI Clears Clinton; HSBC Shares Up Over 4%
FTSE 100 Rallies After FBI Clears Clinton; HSBC Shares Up Over 4%
RTT News (United States)
November 7, 2016 Monday
Copyright 2016 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 228 words
Body
(RTTNews) - U.K. shares are rallying on Monday, as the FBI's clean chit to Hillary Clinton in the bureau's 
investigation into the alleged email scandal boosted her odds of winning the presidential election and HSBC posted 
a surprise jump in adjusted third-quarter pretax profit.
The pound slipped back below $1.24 as the dollar strengthened and data published by mortgage lender Halifax 
showed that U.K. house prices increased at a slower pace in the three months to October.
The benchmark FTSE 100 is currently up 89 points or 1.34 percent at 6,782 in opening deals, on track to snap its 
six-day losing streak.
HSBC Holding shares are up 4.5 percent after the lender reported a third-quarter pre-tax profit that beat analysts' 
estimates.
Rio Tinto is rallying 3 percent after an annual tender of diamonds from its Argyle mine in Western Australia 
achieved the highest average price per carat since the tender began in 1984.
Irish no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings is adding 5 percent on reporting a 7 percent increase in half yearly after tax 
profits, and lifting its long-term traffic growth forecast by 10 percent.
Informa shares are up half a percent. In its nine-month trading update, the publishing firm said it remains on track to 
meet its full-year expectations.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2016 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 9, 2016
End of Document
European Shares Rally As FBI Closes Clinton Email Probe
European Shares Rally As FBI Closes Clinton Email Probe
RTT News (United States)
November 7, 2016 Monday
Copyright 2016 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 401 words
Body
(RTTNews) - European stocks are rallying on Monday, as the FBI's dramatic climbdown on an investigation into the 
alleged email scandal boosted Hillary Clinton's odds of winning the U.S. presidential election and HSBC posted a 
surprise jump in adjusted third-quarter pretax profit.
The pan-European Stoxx Europe 600 index is currently up 1.2 percent at 332.71 in late opening deals after losing 
0.8 percent in the previous session.
The German DAX is rallying 1.6 percent, France's CAC 40 index is moving up 1.8 percent and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 
is up 1.3 percent.
Banks are among the best performers, with HSBC Holding shares climbing 4.5 percent after the lender reported a 
third-quarter pre-tax profit that beat analysts' estimates.
Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank, Credit Agricole, BNP Paribas, Societe Generale Group, Unicredit and BBVA are up 
2-4 percent.
PostNL shares are rallying 5.5 percent after the Dutch postal company rejected a raised takeover offer from Belgian 
rival Bpost.
Mining giant Rio Tinto is gaining 3 percent in London after an annual tender of diamonds from its Argyle mine in 
Western Australia achieved the highest average price per carat since the tender began in 1984.
Irish no-frills airline Ryanair Holdings is adding 5 percent on reporting a 7 percent increase in half yearly after tax 
profits, and lifting its long-term traffic growth forecast by 10 percent.
Renault shares are up 2.5 percent in Paris on news that the French car maker plans to open a manufacturing plant 
in Pakistan by 2018.
In economic releases, figures from Destatis showed that German factory orders contracted unexpectedly in 
September largely due to a fall in domestic demand. Factory orders fell 0.6 percent from August, when it grew by 
revised 0.9 percent.
Separately, survey figures from IHS Markit showed that activity in German construction sector expanded at the 
fastest pace in six months in October, driven by solid growth in housing and commercial activity.
European Shares Rally As FBI Closes Clinton Email Probe
The euro zone investor confidence index produced by the Frankfurt-based Sentix group rose to an 11-month high of 
13.1 in November from 8.5 in October.
The pound slipped back below $1.24 as the dollar strengthened and data published by mortgage lender Halifax 
showed that U.K. house prices increased at a slower pace in the three months to October.
For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
Copyright(c) 2016 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved
Load-Date: November 9, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair in for bumpy landing on sterling dip
Ryanair in for bumpy landing on sterling dip
City A.M.
November 7, 2016 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 254 words
Byline: REBECCA SMITH
Body
LOW-COST carrier Ryanair has suffered some turbulence post-Brexit, predominantly fuelled by the plummeting 
sterling, and investors are braced for a bumpy landing in its upcoming results.
Full-year profits are expected to grow five per cent lower than previous estimates of seven per cent.
The revised guidance, provided last month, reflected that average air fares had dropped by 13-15 per cent, 
compared with the previously guided drop of 10 to 12 per cent.
Analysts at Davy emphasised that the earnings cut was driven by the sterling dip but its "business model and free 
cash flow generation still leaves Ryanair as the stand-out winner in the European airline industry".
The pound hit record lows in the wake of the EU referendum result and has struggled to recoup its losses since 
then.
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary has said the airline will focus its expansion away from its central base in the UK, 
because of the vote to leave the EU.
The budget airline recently announced ambitious plans to expand with a new base at Frankfurt airport.
This made Ryanair the first of the low-fare airlines to open one at Germany's biggest airport.
But the chief executive of airport operator Fraport, Dr Stefan Schulte, said it was now "responding to the strong and 
growing demand in our region for this aviation segment".
Ryanair in for bumpy landing on sterling dip
Ryanair also announced a major recruitment drive last month saying it is gearing up to hire 2,000 cabin crew, 1,000 
pilots and 250 engineers.
The Irish airline also announced plans to add a further 50 planes to its fleet.
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair reports 7-per-cent rise in half-year profit
Ryanair reports 7-per-cent rise in half-year profit
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 7, 2016 Monday 11:59 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 148 words
Body
       LONDON (dpa-AFX) - Ryanair, Europe's largest low-cost airline, on Monday said its profit rose 7 per cent to 
1.17 billion euros (1.29 billion dollars) in the first six months of its financial year, despite a 10-per-cent fall in its 
average fare to 50 euros.  The airline said it also cut costs per seat by 10 per cent year-on-year and opened 73 new 
routes as it carried some 65 passengers from April to September, up 12 per cent.  Ryanair owner Michael O'Leary 
said the half-yearly results showed 'a creditable performance in difficult market conditions,' citing problems including 
strikes by air traffic control staff, the effect of terrorist attacks, and a plunge in the pound since Britain's Brexit vote 
in June.  Ryanair warned last month that it expects its annual net profit to fall by up to 125 million euros, mainly due 
to the fall in the British currency.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
End of Document
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for November 7th 2016
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for November 7th 2016
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 7, 2016 Monday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Economic and financial data for Monday, November 7th 2016  ^ DATA RELEASES 
00:50 J:   BoJ Meeting Minutes 20./21.9. 07:00 D:   Morphosys                                9-Months Figures 07:30 D:   
Xing                                     Q3  08:00 D:   Industrial New Orders 09/16 09:00 E:   Industrial Production 09/16 10:30 
D:   Sentix-Index 11/16 11:00 EU:  Retail Sales 09/16 22:30 USA: News Corp                                Q1   MORE DATA 
RELEASES WITH NO TIME SPECIFIED       GB:  HSBC Holdings                            Q3           IRL: Ryanair                   
Half Year Results       J:   Nissan                                   Half Year Results       NL:  PostNL                                   Q3        
S:   SAS                                      Traffic Data 10/16\xB0  While all data were researched with the greatest care, dpa-
AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH assumes no liability for the correctness of this information. All time designations 
are provided in CEST.  Copyright dpa-AFX    
Load-Date: November 7, 2016
End of Document
William Blair Investment Management LLC Acquires 319,347 Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
William Blair Investment Management LLC Acquires 319,347 Shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
DailyPolitical
November 6, 2016 Sunday 1:17 AM EST
Copyright 2016 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 754 words
Byline: Trevor Kearing
Body
Nov 05, 2016( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  William Blair Investment 
Management LLC increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 31.7% during the second 
quarter, Holdings Channel[1] reports. The fund owned 1,328,219 shares of the company's stock after buying an 
additional 319,347 shares during the period. William Blair Investment Management LLC's holdings in Ryanair 
Holdings PLC were worth $92,364,000 as of its most recent filing with the SEC. 
 A number of other large investors also recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. Smithfield Trust Co. boosted its 
stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.9% in the second quarter. Smithfield Trust Co. now owns 1,616 
shares of the company's stock valued at $113,000 after buying an additional 15 shares during the period. Fulton 
Bank N.A. boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 5.4% in the second quarter. Fulton Bank N.A. 
now owns 5,551 shares of the company's stock valued at $386,000 after buying an additional 286 shares during the 
period. 1st Global Advisors Inc. boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 8.8% in the second quarter. 
1st Global Advisors Inc. now owns 4,608 shares of the company's stock valued at $320,000 after buying an 
additional 371 shares during the period. Ferguson Wellman Capital Management Inc. boosted its stake in shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC by 0.6% in the second quarter. Ferguson Wellman Capital Management Inc. now owns 
72,472 shares of the company's stock valued at $5,040,000 after buying an additional 418 shares during the period. 
Finally, Rothschild Asset Management Inc. boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC by 13.0% in the 
second quarter. Rothschild Asset Management Inc. now owns 5,653 shares of the company's stock valued at 
$393,000 after buying an additional 652 shares during the period. 42.50% of the stock is owned by institutional 
investors. Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY[2]) traded down 1.05% on Friday, hitting $75.31. 
370,103 shares of the stock traded hands. Ryanair Holdings PLC has a 12 month low of $66.09 and a 12 month 
high of $89.67. The firm's 50 day moving average is $0.00 and its 200-day moving average is $0.00.   Several 
equities research analysts have issued reports on RYAAY shares. Zacks Investment Research cut shares of 
Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'hold' rating to a 'strong sell' rating in a research note on Tuesday, July 19th. BNP 
Paribas started coverage on shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC in a research note on Thursday, October 13th. They 
set an 'outperform' rating on the stock. Beaufort Securities reaffirmed a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair Holdings 
PLC in a research note on Wednesday, October 5th. HSBC raised shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC from a 'reduce' 
rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Wednesday. Finally, Deutsche Bank AG cut shares of Ryanair 
Holdings PLC from a 'buy' rating to a 'hold' rating in a research note on Wednesday, September 7th. One research 
analyst has rated the stock with a sell rating, four have issued a hold rating and three have given a buy rating to the 
William Blair Investment Management LLC Acquires 319,347 Shares of Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY)
company's stock. The company has a consensus rating of 'Hold' and an average price target of $89.50. Ryanair 
Holdings PLC Company Profile Ryanair Holdings plc (Ryanair Holdings) is a holding company for Ryanair Limited 
(Ryanair). Ryanair operates an ultra-low fare, scheduled-passenger airline serving short-haul, point-to-point routes 
between Ireland, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Morocco and Israel. Ryanair provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food and merchandise.Want to 
see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings and 
insider trades for Ryanair Holdings PLC (NASDAQ:RYAAY). Receive News ...tings for Ryanair Holdings PLC Daily 
- Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for 
Ryanair Holdings PLC and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter[4]. [ 1]: 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]:            http://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 3]:            
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ [ 4]:            http://www.dailypolitical.com/daily-email-
updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY 
Load-Date: November 5, 2016
End of Document
British Airways owner reins in ambitions Airlines
British Airways owner reins in ambitions; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
November 5, 2016 Saturday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: UK COMPANIES; Pg. 16
Length: 453 words
Byline: Robert Wright, Transport Correspondent
Highlight: IAG trims targets for profits, capacity and capital expenditure
Body
Shares in International Airlines Group fell 4 per cent yesterday after the owner of British Airways cut its long-term 
core profit target, in the latest sign of the challenges facing Europe's airlines.
At its annual investor day, IAG also cut its targets for planned capital spending and growth in capacity.
Like other European carriers the group, which owns Spain's Iberia, BA, Ireland's Aer Lingus and Vueling, a Spanish 
budget airline, has been grappling with difficult market conditions created by excess capacity and a series of 
external shocks.
This summer airlines have faced economic uncertainty following the UK's vote to leave the EU, which came on top 
of the negative impact of terrorist attacks in mainland Europe and strikes by air traffic controllers.
Last month IAG blamed a "tough operating environment", including the fall in the value of sterling since the Brexit 
referendum, for a near 4 per cent drop in operating profit during its third quarter.
However, it is regarded by some analysts as being in a stronger position than Lufthansa and Air France-KLM 
because it has made deeper cost cuts to try to compete with budget airlines led by Ryanair and easyJet.
British Airways owner reins in ambitions Airlines
IAG said yesterday it was cutting its target for average annual earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, 
amortisation and rent for the period from 2016 to 2020 from EUR5.6bn to EUR5.3bn.
The group also reduced its target for annual capital expenditure from EUR2.5bn to EUR1.7bn.
Capacity, meanwhile, would grow at an annual rate of 3 per cent, down from a former range of 3 to 4 per cent.
The shares closed down 3.6 per cent to 434.7p in London.
Robin Byde, analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald, said the group's target trimming might indicate that the cycle for European 
airlines had turned.
"IAG is an increasingly complex airlines group," he said. "Diversity can be positive but evaluating the earnings 
drivers for the group as a whole is more difficult."
Mark Simpson at Goodbody said the reduced capital spending should bolster free cash flow and provide scope for 
share buybacks.
Alex Cruz, BA chief executive, outlined plans to make the best possible use of the UK flag carrier's powerful 
position at London's Heathrow airport, one of the world's most attractive hubs.
He confirmed that BA intended to introduce more flights to European tourist destinations from the airport in the 
summer months, to counteract a downturn in demand for business travel.
BA also plans to introduce Boeing 777 passenger jets on long-haul routes operating out of London Gatwick.
Mr Cruz portrayed the move as enabling BA to compete more effectively with Norwegian Air Shuttle, which is 
operating long-haul routes from Gatwick with modern, cost-efficient Boeing 787 Dreamliners.
Load-Date: November 4, 2016
End of Document
Air France - KLM bets on budget long-haul unit Interview: Jean-Marc Janaillac
Air France-KLM bets on budget long-haul unit; Interview: Jean-Marc 
Janaillac
Financial Times (London, England)
November 4, 2016 Friday
USA Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: COMPANIES; Pg. 17
Length: 961 words
Byline: Michael Stothard in Paris
Highlight: Move threatens to reignite tensions with group's powerful trade unions
Body
The new head of Air France-KLM yesterday revealed plans to create a low-cost, long-haul unit within Air France; a 
move that threatens to reignite tensions with the group's powerful trade unions.
Jean-Marc Janaillac told the FT that the Franco-Dutch group must adopt an "offensive mindset" to improve its 
competitiveness or it would "end up like Alitalia", the Italian flag carrier that ran up losses for years and now has 
Etihad Airways as its largest shareholder .
Mr Janaillac, who became group chief executive in July, signalled he was willing to confront Air France's unions, 
which have in the past made efficiency reforms difficult. "It will be a tough negotiation, but they have to understand 
that the status quo is no longer possible."
The most contentious cost-cutting measure in his new group strategy is the creation of a company inside Air France 
that will operate 10 per cent of long-haul routes, and whose pilots and cabin crew are expected to have less 
generous contracts compared with those at the French flag carrier's main business.
This would be a way to improve Air France's efficiency, which lags behind European budget airlines led by easyJet 
and Ryanair, but also fast-expanding Gulf carriers such as Emirates.
Air France - KLM bets on budget long-haul unit Interview: Jean-Marc Janaillac
Air France-KLM's shares rose more than 6 per cent yesterday to EUR5.77, but several unions with members at the 
airline expressed hostility to the plans.
Mr Janaillac is widely considered to have one of the toughest jobs in aviation. Attempts by the previous Air France-
KLM chief Alexandre de Juniac to expand the group's budget airline Transavia on short-haul routes prompted the 
longest strike in Air France's history in 2014 because unions regarded his plans as a strategy to lower wages.
Since then, industrial relations at Air France have been poor and Mr de Juniac was unable to fully implement his 
cost-cutting measures . A new low was reached last year when, after a tense employee meeting about 2,900 job 
cuts, the airline's human resources director had his shirt torn off by an angry mob.
Mr Janaillac confirmed he would persist with Transavia, and focus its operations on France and the Netherlands, "in 
order to fight against low-cost competition and the [high-speed] trains".
He said he hoped that, as a "new face", his talks with the unions would be better than those of his predecessor. He 
is replacing the head of Air France, Frédéric Gagey , with Franck Terner , who was boss of the group's engineering 
and maintenance unit.
Mr Janaillac said he intended to explain to the unions that to increase capacity by 2 to 3 per cent each year until 
2020, Air France must generate cash to "renew the fleet and buy new planes", and that in turn meant the airline had 
to "cut costs and become more competitive".
"My bet is that [Air France] staff are ready to make a deal this time to secure the long-term future of the company 
and start growing again," he said. "It is a bet though."
Air France's longstanding problems focus on its high operating costs compared with certain competitors and its 
large debt load.
But, as with other European airlines, Air France has been contending in recent months with economic and political 
uncertainty stemming from the UK's vote in June to leave the EU, the negative impact of terrorist attacks in 
mainland Europe including France and strikes by air traffic controllers.
Yesterday, Air France-KLM reported that its operating profit dropped 16 per cent to EUR737m in the July to 
September period compared with one year earlier, while revenue fell 5.1 per cent to EUR6.9bn. The group recorded 
net debt of EUR4.2bn at September 30.
Mr Janaillac said he was positively surprised by the strength of Air France's brand, service and its alliances with 
other airlines.
He was, however, disappointed to discover the "lack of trust" within the group, both between Air France and KLM, 
and between management and staff. He also saw the group's "financial situation", "competitiveness" and 
"organisation structure" were not good enough.
Mr Janaillac's plans to set up a low-cost, long-haul flying unit within Air France have some similarities with an 
initiative by Lufthansa.
Eurowings, Lufthansa's budget airline focused on short-haul routes, last year began flying to long-distance 
destinations including the Caribbean.
A more radical cost-cutting approach was taken by International Airlines Group at its subsidiary Iberia in 2012, 
when the Spanish flag carrier was running up losses. IAG set out plans to cut Iberia's workforce by 20 per cent , 
and capacity by 15 per cent, and it subsequently returned to profit.
British Airways, IAG's main subsidiary, also cut costs in 2011 at its long-haul operations by reducing the number of 
cabin crew on certain flights and paying new recruits less.
Air France - KLM bets on budget long-haul unit Interview: Jean-Marc Janaillac
All the established European airlines have come under pressure from a newer breed of long-haul carriers. These 
have been led by the Gulf airlines, but also carriers such as Malaysia's AirAsia X, which are seeking to replicate the 
low-cost, short-haul business model on long-haul routes.
Some analysts questioned whether Mr Janaillac's cost-cutting plans went far enough.
Damian Brewer, analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said the plans did not look sufficient to enable Air France-KLM to 
escape its "high debt balance sheet, high unit cost base". He added the proposal for the low-cost, long-haul flying 
unit within Air France risked "being seen by the union as a stalking horse for deeper changes later; ie to cease 
growing the legacy Air France and grow the new unit over time".
The SNPL pilots union said it was willing to start negotiations with Mr Janaillac on a positive footing.
But Emmanuel Mistrali, union president, said it would not countenance having different contracts for staff in Air 
France's low-cost, long-haul flying unit.
Load-Date: November 3, 2016
End of Document
EasyJet climbs after broker spotlights discount to rival London
EasyJet climbs after broker spotlights discount to rival; London
Financial Times (London, England)
November 3, 2016 Thursday
London Edition 1
Copyright 2016 The Financial Times Ltd. All Rights Reserved Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the 
web.
Section: MARKETS & INVESTING; Pg. 27
Length: 437 words
Byline: Bryce Elder
Body
An upgrade from HSBC helped buoy easyJet , the FTSE 100's second-worst performing stock of 2016.
HSBC switched easyJet from "reduce" to "buy" with an £11.50 target price. While Ryanair and easyJet "remain the 
long-term strategic winners in the market with solid strategic positions and strong balance sheets", recent weak 
trading means easyJet shares sit at a 35 per cent discount to Ryanair based on mid-cycle earnings multiples, it told 
clients.
"If management does not fix this struggling business, we think someone else will," the broker added. "Its pan-
European network, portfolio of slots in constrained airports and well recognised brand position should make it an 
attractive opportunity for carriers looking to consolidate what is currently an unstable business."
EasyJet closed 2.9 per cent higher at 968p, which narrowed its loss for the year-to-date to 44 per cent.
A sterling rally and a sharp drop for oil meant the wider market struggled, with the FTSE 100 sliding 1 per cent, 
down 71.72 points at 6,845.42.
Standard Chartered slipped a further 4.3 per cent to 644.1p as forecast downgrades followed Tuesday's quarterly 
results, which damped hopes of a return to revenue growth and a restart of dividends.
EasyJet climbs after broker spotlights discount to rival London
Berenberg forecast StanChart's return on equity to remain below 5 per cent compared with the 2018 target of 8 per 
cent when management first set out its turnround plan .
Barclays faded 2.5 per cent to 182.1p on word of a cautious briefing from Tushar Morzaria , its finance director, to 
Deutsche Bank analysts.
Among issues discussed was the rising cost to service Barclays' coco bonds , about three-quarters of which are 
non-sterling denominated and are unhedged against sterling's recent devaluation.
Heroin substitute maker Indivior jumped 10.6 per cent to 350.4p after boosting full-year earnings guidance with 
better than expected quarterly results. Lower research costs combined with resilient demand for Suboxone film 
against generic and branded rivals, to eclipse news of a $220m exceptional provision for litigation costs.
Security outsourcer G4S rose 10.3 per cent to 242.8p on the back of an unscheduled trading update, which showed 
organic growth accelerating.
Aggreko hit a seven-year low, down 2 per cent to 765.5p. The generator hire specialist has begun contract renewal 
talks in Argentina, where analysts expect 35 per cent price cuts, and faces increased competition in emerging 
markets from Karpowership, a Turkish ship maker that is rapidly expanding its fleet of floating power stations.
Potash mine developer Sirius Minerals dropped 10.1 per cent to 33.3p after setting out a $900m fundraising .
Load-Date: November 2, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair sticks to its post-Brexit expansion plans
Ryanair sticks to its post-Brexit expansion plans
City A.M.
November 3, 2016 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2016 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 301 words
Byline: REBECCA SMITH
Body
RYANAIR is branching out, but not in the UK. The no-frills airline is spreading its wings and opening a base at 
Frankfurt airport.
That makes it the first low-cost carrier to open a base at Germany's biggest airport as the rise of budget carriers 
continues.
Michael O'Leary, Ryanair's chief executive, has said the airline will focus expansion away from its central base in 
the UK, because of the Brexit vote.
Frankfurt had been the last of Europe's big hub airports to hang onto "legacy" airlines, but is bowing to the 
popularity of the low-cost names, with Ryanair the first through the doors. It will launch the new base from the end 
of March 2017.
The chief executive of airport operator Fraport, Stefan Schulte, said it was "responding to the strong and growing 
demand in our region for this aviation segment".
The Irish airline will have two Boeing 737s there; an investment of $200m (£162m) for the company, along with four 
new routes to Alicante, Faro, Malaga and Palma. There will be 28 weekly flights, with the expectation that Ryanair 
will deliver over 400,000 customers per year through Frankfurt airport.
Ryanair's chief commercial officer, David O'Brien, said: "Our two based aircraft represent an investment of $200m, 
which further underlines our commitment to growing traffic, tourism and jobs in the Hessen region.
Ryanair sticks to its post-Brexit expansion plans
We look forward to working closely with Fraport to deliver industry leading efficiencies and further growth at 
Germany's biggest airport."
The development also signals Ryanair stepping up its battle with Lufthansa; Frankfurt airport is the German airline's 
main base. It has been facing difficulties of late with strikes as it tries to lower costs and expand its own budget unit, 
Eurowings. Frankfurt is the third busiest airport in the EU, after Heathrow and Charles de Gaulle in Paris.
Graphic
 
Ryanair earlier said Brexit would mean its new routes would not be out of the UK
Load-Date: November 3, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers increase 13% in October
Ryanair passenger numbers increase 13% in October
Business World (Digest)
November 03, 2016 Thursday
Copyright 2016 Media World Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: GENERAL
Length: 128 words
Byline: Business World
Body
Ryanair have today released figures which show that traffic grew 13% to 10.9m customers in October. Load factor 
rose 1% point to 95% and rolling annual traffic to Oct grew 16% to 114.4m customers.
Ryanair will start flying from Frankfurt airport to tourist destinations in Spain and Portugal, the airline and airport 
operator Fraport said on Wednesday.
The once-daily flights to Palma de Mallorca, Alicante, Malaga and Faro will start from the end of March, they said, in 
a move flagged by Reuters on Tuesday.
The news will provide a further headache for Fraport's main customer Lufthansa, which has slowed growth at its 
main brand and has faced strikes while it tries to lower costs and expand its own budget unit Eurowings. (Reuters)
Source: www.businessworld.ie
About us
Load-Date: November 10, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair announces October traffic grows 13% to 10.9m customers
Ryanair announces October traffic grows 13% to 10.9m customers
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 3, 2016 Thursday 2:01 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 126 words
Highlight: Ryanair, Europe's favourite airline,Â released October traffic statistics.
Body
October traffic statistics as follows: Traffic grew 13% to 10.9m customers.Load factor rose 1% point to 95%Rolling 
annual traffic to Oct grew 16% to 114.4m customersRyanair'sKenny Jacobs said: "Ryanair's October traffic grew by 
13% to 10.9m customers, while our load factor jumped 1% point to 95%, on the back of lower fares and the 
continuing success of our "Always Getting Better" customer experience programme. Customers can look forward to 
even lower fares when they make advance bookings for summer 2017, so there's never been a better time to book 
a low fare flight on Ryanair and we urge all customers who wish to book their summer 2017 holidays to do so now 
on the Ryanair.com website or mobile app, where they can avail of the lowest fares in Europe."
Load-Date: November 9, 2016
End of Document
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for November 2nd 2016
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for November 2nd 2016
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 2, 2016 Wednesday 6:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 431 words
Body
       FRANKFURT (dpa-AFX) - Economic and financial data for Wednesday, November 2nd 2016  ^ DATA 
RELEASES 06:45 D:   Oerlikon                                 Q3  07:00 D:   Braas Monier Building                    Q3  07:00 D:   
Norma                                    Q3  07:00 D:   Symrise                                  9-Months Figures (Call 10.00 h) 07:00 
CH:  Barry Callebaut                          Full Year Figures 07:30 D:   Lufthansa                                Q3  (Final )                   
(Call 10.30 h) 07:30 D:   Hugo Boss                                Q3  (Call 9.30 h) 07:30 D:   Comdirect                   
Q3  08:00 GB:  Next                                     Q3 Trading Statement 09:45 I:   PMI Manufacturing 10/16 09:50 F:   
PMI Manufacturing 10/16 (2nd Release) 09:55 D:   Unemployment data 10/16 09:55 D:   PMI Manufacturing 10/16 
(2nd est.) 10:00 EU:  PMI Manufacturing 10/16 (2nd est.) 10:00 D:   VDMA Order intake 09/16 10:00 D:   Chemicals 
- VCI Q316 report 11:15 D:   Fraport And Ryanair                      Press conference  11:30 D:   Anleihe            
Maturity: 10 Years            Size: 3 bln EUR 11:45 USA: Delphi                                   Q3  12:00 USA: Time Warner                  
Q3  13:15 USA: ADP-Labor Market Report 10/16 15:30 USA: Department of Energy Oil Report (Week) 19:00 USA: 
Fed, Interest Rate Decision 21:00 NL:  Qiagen                                   Q3  21:00 USA: Facebook                   
Q3  21:00 USA: Qualcomm                                 Q4  21:00 USA: 21st Century Fox                         Q1   MORE 
DATA RELEASES WITH NO TIME SPECIFIED       CHN: Alibaba                                  Q2        D:   KBA / VDA / 
VdIK  Vehicle Registrations 10/16       D:   Intershop                                Q3        DK:  TDC                   
Q3 Trading Update       NL:  Wolters Kluwer                           9Monats Trading Update       DK:  A.P. Moller-Maersk                   
Q3        E:   Gas Natural                              9-Months Figures       USA: Fitbit                                   Q3        USA: 
Zynga                                    Q3        USA: American International Group             Q3        USA: First Solar                  
Q3 \xB0  While all data were researched with the greatest care, dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH assumes 
no liability for the correctness of this information. 
All time designations are provided in CEST.  Copyright dpa-AFX    
Load-Date: November 2, 2016
DAILY PREVIEW: Events for November 2nd 2016
End of Document
Ryanair Reports October Traffic Increases 13%; Load Factor Rises to 95%
Ryanair Reports October Traffic Increases 13%; Load Factor Rises to 95%
MT Newswires Live Briefs
November 2, 2016 Wednesday 6:24 AM EST
Copyright 2016 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 61 words
Body
 Ryanair (RYAAY), a low-fair passenger airline, reported increased that in October traffic, measured in revenue 
passenger miles, increased 13% to 10.9 million customers from 9.7 million in the same period last year. Rolling 
annual traffic to Oct. grew 16% to 114.4 million customers. The load factor was 95%, up 1% from last year. 
Price: 74.93, Change: , Percent Change: 
Load-Date: November 3, 2016
End of Document
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Technology Stocks Advance
European ADRs Fractionally Higher as Technology Stocks Advance
MT Newswires Live Briefs
November 2, 2016 Wednesday 10:26 AM EST
Copyright 2016 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 194 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were 0.03% higher at 116.65 on the Bank of New York Mellon 
Europe ADR Index on Wednesday morning. 
Gainers in Continental Europe were led by Criteo (CRTO), a French technology company, 9.8% higher,  Talend 
(TLND), a provider of open source integration solutions, up by 5.4% and Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (ERIC), a 
Sweden-based telecommunications operator, 3.5% higher. 
In the UK, Randgold Resources (GOLD), a gold-mining company, was 3.8% higher, followed by low-cost airline 
Ryanair (RYAAY), up by 2.4% and education company Pearson (PSO), 1.5% higher. 
Decliners in Continental Europe were led by voxeljet (VJET), a German three-dimensional printer manufacturer, 
3.3% lower, followed by Marine Harvest (MHG), a Norwegian seafood company, down by 2.6% and VimpelCom- 
Com (VIP), a Dutch provider of telecommunications services, down by 2.1%. 
And, in the UK, biopharmaceutical companies GW Pharmaceuticals (GWPH) and Amarin (AMRN), were down by 
1.8% and 1.6%, respectively, while oil and gas production company Royal Dutch Shell - A Shares (RDS.A), was 
1.6% lower. 
Price: 39.70, Change: +3.09, Percent Change: +8.44
Load-Date: November 3, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair to step up battle with Germany 's Lufthansa
Ryanair to step up battle with Germany's Lufthansa
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 2, 2016 Wednesday 2:40 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 150 words
Body
       By Andrew McCathie, dpa   BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - Europe's biggest low-cost airline Ryanair is to take on 
Lufthansa on its home turf by beginning to fly out of Frankfurt airport, the German national carrier's main hub.  
Frankfurt airport operator Fraport and Ryanair announced on Wednesday that the Irish airline will use Germany's 
biggest airport to fly from March 2017 to holiday destinations such as Spain's Mallorca, Alicante and Malaga, as 
well as Faro in Portugal.  Ryanair is currently planning to operate two aircraft out of Frankfurt with four departures 
each day generating about 400,000 passengers a year  But the budget airline is already planning an expansion of 
the number of destinations it flies to and from Frankfurt by the end of the year.  'We hope that we will be able to 
offer a significantly bigger flight plan from winter,' said Ryanair spokesman Kenny Jacobs.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: November 2, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair to step up battle with Germany 's Lufthansa
Ryanair to step up battle with Germany's Lufthansa
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 2, 2016 Wednesday 1:05 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 150 words
Body
       By Andrew McCathie, dpa   BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - Europe's biggest low-cost airline Ryanair is take on Lufthansa 
on its home turf by beginning to fly out of Frankfurt airport, the German national carrier's main hub.  Frankfurt airport 
operator Fraport and Ryanair announced on Wednesday that the Irish airline will use Germany's biggest airport to 
fly from March 2017 to holiday destinations such as Spain's Mallorca, Alicante and Malaga, as well as Faro in 
Portugal.  Ryanair is currently planning to operate two aircraft out of Frankfurt with four departures each day 
generating about 400,000 passengers a year  But the budget airline is already planning an expansion of the 
number of destinations it flies to and from Frankfurt by the end of the year.  'We hope that we will be able to offer a 
significantly bigger flight plan from winter,' said Ryanair spokesman Kenny Jacobs.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: November 2, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair to step up battle with Germany 's Lufthansa
Ryanair to step up battle with Germany's Lufthansa
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 2, 2016 Wednesday 11:36 AM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Body
       BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair is take on Lufthansa on its home turf by beginning to fly out 
of Frankfurt airport, the German national carrier's main hub.  Frankfurt airport operator Fraport and Ryanair are 
expected to announced at a press conference on Wednesday that the budget airline will use Germany's biggest 
airport to at least initially fly to Spanish holiday destinations such as Mallorca.   The Frankfurt-Mallorca route is 
already served by Lufthansa along with German airlines Air Berlin, Condor, SunExpress and Tuifly during the peak 
summer holiday season.   Up until now Ryanair, like other low-cost airlines, has tended to avoid the Frankfurt hub 
because of the higher airport fees as well as the longer turnaround times for the aircraft on the ground at the airport.   
But, according to the daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Ryanair will receive a new customer discount from 
Fraport, and the budget airline will announce a 35-minute turnaround time between landing and departure at 
Frankfurt.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: November 2, 2016
End of Document
Ryanair to step up battle with Germany 's Lufthansa
Ryanair to step up battle with Germany's Lufthansa
dpa-AFX International ProFeed
November 2, 2016 Wednesday 2:39 PM GMT
Copyright 2016 dpa-AFX Wirtschaftsnachrichten GmbH All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Body
       BERLIN (dpa-AFX) - Irish low-cost airline Ryanair is to take on Lufthansa on its home turf by beginning to fly 
out of Frankfurt airport, the German national carrier's main hub.  Frankfurt airport operator Fraport and Ryanair are 
expected to announced at a press conference on Wednesday that the budget airline will use Germany's biggest 
airport to at least initially fly to Spanish holiday destinations such as Mallorca.   The Frankfurt-Mallorca route is 
already served by Lufthansa along with German airlines Air Berlin, Condor, SunExpress and Tuifly during the peak 
summer holiday season.   Up until now Ryanair, like other low-cost airlines, has tended to avoid the Frankfurt hub 
because of the higher airport fees as well as the longer turnaround times for the aircraft on the ground at the airport.   
But, according to the daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Ryanair will receive a new customer discount from 
Fraport, and the budget airline will announce a 35-minute turnaround time between landing and departure at 
Frankfurt.   Copyright dpa    
Load-Date: November 2, 2016
End of Document
