EasyJet lands 2.2bn Covid loss after Christmas in red
EasyJet lands 2.2bn Covid loss after Christmas in red
Newstex Blogs 
Business Matters
January 28, 2022 Friday 10:07 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 819 words
Byline: Business Matters
Body
Jan 28, 2022( Business Matters: http://www.bmmagazine.co.uk/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 EasyJet plunged 213 million into the red in the Christmas quarter and is still burning through 150 million in cash 
each month, putting its Covid-19 losses at 2.2 billion. 
The short-haul European airline, the second largest behind Ryanair with more than 300 aircraft in its fleet, said 
yesterday that it was still operating at only 50 per cent of normal capacity but that an increase through Easter and 
the spring should bring it back near to pre-pandemic levels for the key summer holiday season. 
 With deep losses expected again in the January-to-March quarter, traditionally its toughest, City analysts are not 
expecting a summer recovery to return the airline to profit this year. 
 EasyJet's losses in the three months to the end of December, the first quarter of its financial year, were half the 
deficit it recorded in the same period a year earlier, but even after flying much-reduced schedules to fit demand, the 
losses were still deep compared with more normal times. Before the pandemic, the Christmas trading quarter 
typically might have been expected to operate at about break-even. 
 The airline's shares have suffered during the pandemic. Shares in Ryanair and Wizz Air, the ambitious budget 
carrier snapping at its tailfins, have been brought back up to roughly pre-pandemic levels, but easyJet's stock more 
than halved and pretty much stayed there. Investors have been worried about whether it would be able to stay the 
course and the airline eventually undertook a 1.2 billion fundraising with its shareholders last autumn to shore up its 
balance sheet. 
 EasyJet's shares edged up p, or less than 0.1 per cent, to 635p yesterday. That is up from the 500p level they hit 
as the Omicron coronavirus variant spread across Europe before Christmas, but below from the 10 level at which 
they were trading during a rally last spring. Before the pandemic hit Europe, the shares were above 15. 
 An end to travel restrictions around Europe, hopes that Omicron infections would recede and a belief in strong 
pent-up demand from holidaymakers led Johan Lundgren, 55, the chief executive, to strike a bullish note. 'Booking 
volumes jumped in the UK following the welcome reduction of travel restrictions announced on January 5, which 
have been sustained and given a further boost from the UK government's decision this week to remove all testing 
requirements,' he said. 
 'We believe testing for travel across our network should soon become a thing of the past. We see a strong summer 
ahead, with pent-up demand that will see easyJet returning to near-2019 levels of capacity, with UK beach and 
EasyJet lands 2.2bn Covid loss after Christmas in red
leisure routes performing particularly well.' EasyJet is the dominant airline at Gatwick, Britain's second largest 
airport, where with British Airways, its main rival there, cutting its operations, it will account for half of all flights. 
 The airline's more immediate outlook remains cautious and it is selling tickets for only 67 per cent of its normal 
capacity this quarter. That is not much higher than in the previous quarter, which came in at 64 per cent. 
 It also conceded that it had not achieved its guidance of expecting to fly its aircraft at 80 per cent full. Gerald Khoo, 
analyst at Liberum, the stockbroker, thinks that easyJet will eventually be a winner in the aviation recovery but is 
pencilling in a 25 million loss for this financial year before it returns to more normal profit levels of 490 million in 
2022-23. 
 Read more:  
EasyJet lands 2.2bn Covid loss after Christmas in red[1] 
 [ 1]: https://bmmagazine.co.uk/news/easyjet-lands-2-2bn-covid-loss-after-christmas-in-red/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 28, 2022
End of Document
Airlines expects bumper summer as Brits flock back to the sun
Airlines expects bumper summer as Brits flock back to the sun
 
Proactive Investors (UK)
January 27, 2022 Thursday 01:30 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Proactive UK Ltd All Rights Reserved
Length: 345 words
Byline: Jordan Brodie Farooqui
Body
EasyJet plc (LSE:EZJ) has joined the chorus of travel companies saying they are preparing for a surge in demand 
from Britons for holidays abroad as Covid travel restrictions are eased.
Two-thirds of Brits say an overseas holiday is a top priority this year, according to recent polls, with the low-cost 
carrier expecting the ending of all Covid tests for double-vaccinated passengers from 11 February to be the catalyst 
for a rush for seats.
The easing of restrictions in other European countries, including France, should provide an additional boost
Easyjet will provide more flights than ever before from the UK to beach destinations this summer, it said in a 
trading update.
The airline flew around 50% of the number of 2019 flights in January but expects to be back at pre-pandemic levels 
by the end of this financial year.
"We believe testing for travel across our network should soon become a thing of the past," Johan Lundgren, chief 
executive, said.
"We see a strong summer ahead, with pent-up demand that will see easyJet returning to near 2019 levels of 
capacity with UK beach and leisure routes performing particularly well." 
Rival low-budget airlines Ryanair Holdings PLC (LSE:RYA) and Wizz Air Holdings PLC (AIM:WIZZ) have said this 
month that they will add capacity to meet what they expect with a surge in people wanting to get away from the UK.
Airlines expects bumper summer as Brits flock back to the sun
Wizz Air has bought new slots at Gatwick, which it anticipates will be the centre of a battle for passengers among 
budget carriers.
Easyjet halved losses in the quarter to Christmas to £213mln as revenue soared over 200% to £805mln compared 
with the comparative 2020 period.
Shares in the airline have been battered since the onset of the pandemic but after flirting with a new five-year low in 
November have bounced 27% to stand at 637p on Thursday afternoon.
Other airlines have followed a similar pattern. British Airways owner International Consolidated Airlines Group 
(LSE:IAG) is 27% since December with Wizz Air Holdings PLC (AIM:WIZZ) up 13% while Jet2 PLC (AIM:JET2) has 
been the best performer with a 38% rise.
Load-Date: January 27, 2022
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Thursday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Thursday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
January 27, 2022 Thursday 11:08 AM EST
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 208 words
Body
 American depositary receipts of European stocks were trading 1.2% higher at 1,168.08 on the S&P/BNY Mellon 
Europe Select ADR Index on Thursday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by furniture maker Natuzzi (NTZ) and pharmaceutical company Novo 
Nordisk (NVO), which climbed 9.5% and 3.4%, respectively. They were followed by pharmaceutical firm Sanofi 
(SNY) and biotech firm Forward Pharma (FWP), which both gained 3%.
Meanwhile, the decliners in continental Europe were led by software firm SAP (SAP) and hotel booking site trivago 
(TRVG), which declined 6.8% and 3.3%, respectively. They were followed by biotech firm BioNTech SE (BNTX) 
and biopharmaceutical firm Cellectis (CLLS), which both declined 2.7%.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca (AZN) and airline operator Ryanair 
Holdings (RYAAY), which added 4% and 3.5%, respectively. They were followed by biopharmaceutical firm 
MorphoSys (MOR) was up 3.4% and HSBC Holdings (HSBC) rose 3.1%.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by biopharmaceutical companies NuCana (NCNA) and Mereo 
BioPharma Group (MREO), which lost 5.9% and 3.9%, respectively. Amarin (AMRN) and Bicycle Therapeutics 
(BCYC) also retreated 3.2% and 2.4%, respectively.
Load-Date: January 27, 2022
End of Document
Citigroup Inc. Reduces Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Citigroup Inc. Reduces Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 27, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 672 words
Body
Ryanair Citigroup Inc. lessened its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 27.3% during the 
third quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. 
The fund owned 44,860 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 16,854 shares during the quarter. 
Citigroup Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $4,937,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
Several other hedge funds and other institutional investors also recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. 
Advisory Services Network LLC purchased a new position in shares of  Ryanair in the second quarter worth 
approximately $46,000.  JFS Wealth Advisors LLC purchased a new position in shares of  Ryanair in the third 
quarter worth approximately $47,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its holdings in shares of  
Ryanair by 532.2% in the second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $58,000 after buying an additional 463 shares during the last quarter.  PNC 
Financial Services Group Inc. boosted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 106.8% in the third quarter. PNC 
Financial Services Group Inc. now owns 1,729 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $192,000 after 
buying an additional 893 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Park Avenue Securities LLC purchased a new 
position in shares of  Ryanair in the third quarter worth approximately $223,000. 43.59% of the stock is currently 
owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
A number of research firms recently issued reports on RYAAY. Liberum Capital raised shares of Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Wednesday, January 19th. Oddo Bhf cut shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Monday, November 15th. Wolfe Research cut shares 
of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a research note on Wednesday, January 12th. 
Barclays  restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. 
Finally, Morgan Stanley  restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, 
November 2nd. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a 
buy rating to the company. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the company currently has a consensus rating 
of "Buy" and an average target price of $104.87. 
Ryanair stock  opened at $107.47 on Thursday. The stock has a market cap of $24.35 billion, a P/E ratio of -30.53 
and a beta of 1.58. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $94.68 and a 1 year high of $127.25. The firm's 50 day moving average 
price is $105.92 and its 200-day moving average price is $109.01.  
Citigroup Inc. Reduces Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The company had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%.  As a group, 
equities analysts expect that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 EPS for the current year.  
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: Initial Coin Offering (ICO) 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: January 27, 2022
End of Document
No Headline In Original
No Headline In Original
Flight International
January 27, 2022
Copyright 2022 DVV Media International Ltd All Rights Reserved
Section: IN FOCUS
Length: 1171 words
Body
That’s your slot
Major airline groups argue that the European Commission’s usage rules do not adequately cater for changing 
Covid-19 restrictions, but low-cost carriers have a different view
Lewis Harper London
Ryanair and Lufthansa are on opposing sides in the airport slots debate
Tupungato/Shutterstock
European Commission assurances that existing airport slot regulations make so-called ‘ghost flights’ unnecessary 
have failed to placate two of the region’s largest airline groups, with Air France-KLM joining Lufthansa Group in 
asking for rules to be relaxed during the current northern hemisphere winter.
The Commission on 13 January cited “new Covid-19 variants” as a potential reason for airlines to use the “justified 
non-use exception” clause in the regulations, which would allow them to cut flights ­beyond the 50% threshold 
required to retain slots for the next equivalent season.
That clause provides an exception “when state-imposed measures severely impede passengers’ ability to travel”, 
Commission documents state, adding that it addresses “future unforeseen circumstances without unduly blocking 
airport capacity” – the latter point being a key issue for airports, which oppose relaxation of the regulations.
“This relief system [has been] working quite well for almost two years now and was widely welcomed by 
stakeholders,” says the Commission. A decision to operate routes “is a commercial decision” by the airline, it adds.
But days later Lufthansa insisted that the current regulations are not flexible enough, noting its need to operate 
“many thousands of unnecessary flights with only a few passengers on board”.
No Headline In Original
“The current slot regulation for the winter schedule 2021-22 in the EU was decided before the occurrence of the 
Omicron variant and it no longer fits the current pandemic situation,” Lufthansa says.
“Therefore, there should be short-term exemption rules for the use of take-off and landing rights that are flexible, 
practicable and applied consistently.”
Air France-KLM says the rapid spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 is acting to “jeopardise the trajectory” of 
airline capacity increases in Europe.
It would like “the current situation to be better taken into account in the application of European regulations so that 
airlines can continue to adjust their offer to actual demand levels”.
The Franco-Dutch group calls for “more flexibility in the application of the force majeure rules, allowing for 
derogations from the 50% slot utilisation rule”.
The Commission set a 50% slot usage threshold for the winter 2021 season, with the requirement due to rise to 
64% for the summer 2022 season. That figure is still lower than the pre-pandemic ­figure of 80%.
The rules apply at about 100 of Europe’s airports, which are listed as having the highest level of slot constraints. 
The issue is particularly acute in the region, with Europe accounting for around half of the slot-constrained airports 
globally.
Ghost story
The latest round of debate on the issue – which has gained increased attention during the pandemic – came after 
Lufthansa Group chief executive Carsten Spohr told German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung in 
late December that his airlines were being forced to perform 18,000 “unnecessary” flights during the winter in order 
to secure slots at European airports.
Since Spohr’s comments – which were made in the context of wider concerns among some carriers that slot rules 
should not revert to pre-crisis terms too quickly – airports have argued that current arrangements mean ‘ghost 
flights’ should be unnecessary, while low-cost carrier Ryanair has said airlines must give up their slots in such 
circumstances.
Wading into the debate with his customary diplomacy, Ryan­air group chief executive Michael O’Leary has called 
on the Commission to force airlines to release slots they do not wish to use, while describing low-cost airlines such 
as Ryanair as “low-fare ghostbusters”.
“Instead of operating empty flights just so they can block slots, Lufthansa should release the seats on these flights 
for sale at low fares to reward the German and European taxpayers who have subsidised it with billions during the 
Covid crisis,” O’Leary says.
Many industry observers have suggested, however, that demand is being depressed by factors other than ticket 
prices, including rising Covid-19 cases and continued ­travel restrictions.
The Commission’s approach to slot allocation had earlier received the backing of airports body ACI Europe, which 
expressed its ­“dismay at the escalating industry and political rhetoric around so-called ‘ghost flights’”.
“A few airlines are claiming they are forced to run high volumes of empty flights in order to retain airport slot usage 
rights,” said ACI Europe director general Olivier Jankovec on 6 January. “There is absolutely no reason why this 
should be the reality.
“As was clearly stated by the European Commission… slot usage rules need to achieve two things in the current 
circumstances: firstly, to protect airlines from the worst of unpredictabilities, which are out of all our hands; 
secondly, and ­crucially, to also ensure that airport capacity is still used in a pro­­competitive way.”
No Headline In Original
Citing the “justified non-use exception” arrangement, ACI Europe says airlines can “at any point” present a case to 
co-ordinators for the application of this provision, “allowing them to effectively use their allocated airport slots for 
less than 50% of the time”.
Travel bans
It continues: “This provision is specifically designed to address the Covid pandemic, and covers not only outright 
travel bans, but also restrictions of movement, quarantine or isolation measures.”
Global airline association IATA has broadly welcomed the Commission’s plans for a gradual increase to the 
threshold for the summer 2022 season, but cautions the Commission about returning to the pre­­crisis 80:20 ratio 
too quickly.
For airports, passenger throughput is a big revenue source and ­having airlines “sit” on slots is an unattractive 
prospect, after almost two years of depressed income.
For carriers whose business models are built around strongholds at busy airports, slots are everything. They would 
argue it is unfair to lose what are highly valuable assets because of the unprecedented – and temporary – impact of 
Covid.
Other airlines – including market disruptors – view carriers retaining unused slots as an anti-competitive situation, 
making it harder for them to take advantage of market opportunities that would otherwise exist.
Most stakeholders would agree on one thing, however: for an industry under scrutiny for its environmental footprint, 
operating empty flights is not a good look. ◗
18,000
‘Unnecessary’ flights during winter season to maintain slots, according to Lufthansa Group chief Carsten Spohr
64%
Slot usage threshold for summer 2022 season, set by European Commission
“Instead of operating empty flights just so they can block slots, Lufthansa should release the seats on these flights 
at low fares”
Michael O’Leary Chief executive, Ryanair
Load-Date: January 31, 2022
End of Document
No Headline In Original
No Headline In Original
Flight International
January 27, 2022
Copyright 2022 DVV Media International Ltd All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES
Length: 148 words
Body
New look
We shine a light on some of the incoming types that joined carriers’ fleets for the first time during 2021
Lewis Harper London
Alaska Airlines’ first Boeing 737 Max 9 was transferred last January, and has already been followed by another 10
Alaska Airlines
Nigerian operator Air Peace put its first Embraer E195-E2 into commercial service in July, in a 124-seat, two-class 
layout
Embraer
Air France took its first Airbus A220-300 in late September, from a 60-unit order. It now has six examples in use
Air France
KLM accepted the first Embraer E195-E2 for its Cityhopper subsidiary last February
Steve Knight/Wikimedia Commons
The launch operator for Boeing’s 737 Max 8-200, Ryanair welcomed its first 200-seat twinjet in mid-June
October saw Air Belgium receive its lead Airbus A330-900, registered OO-ABG
Airbus
Greek carrier Sky Express received the first of its new ATR 72-600s in late June
No Headline In Original
ATR
Load-Date: January 31, 2022
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Wednesday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Wednesday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
January 26, 2022 Wednesday 11:12 AM EST
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 237 words
Body
 American depositary receipts of European stocks were trading 0.9% higher at 1,164.79 on the S&P/BNY Mellon 
Europe Select ADR Index on Wednesday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by 3D printer company Materialise (MTLS) and luxury e-commerce 
platform MYT Netherlands Parent (MYTE), which climbed 7.1% and 5.8%, respectively. They were followed by 
biopharmaceutical firm Orphazyme (ORPH) and optical bonding company VIA optronics (VIAO), which rose 5.6% 
and 4.6%, respectively.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by dating app operator Spark Networks (LOV) and consumer goods 
company Unilever (UL), which lost 2.3% and 1.5%, respectively. They were followed by telecommunications 
company VEON Ltd. (VEON) and biopharmaceutical firm Genfit (GNFT), which declined 1.1% and 1%, 
respectively.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by biopharmaceutical company Amarin (AMRN) and software firm 
Endava (DAVA), which climbed 10% and 4.8%, respectively. Airline operator Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) added 
4.4% and biopharmaceutical firm Bicycle Therapeutics (BCYC) gained 3%.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by education publisher Pearson (PSO) and biopharmaceutical 
company Mereo BioPharma Group (MREO), which lost 1.8% and 0.8%, respectively. They were followed by 
telecommunications operator Vodafone Group (VOD) and utilities provider National Grid (NGG), which lost 0.7% 
and 0.4%, respectively.
Load-Date: January 26, 2022
End of Document
Connor Clark & Lunn Investment Management Ltd. Invests $1.37 Million in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
Connor Clark & Lunn Investment Management Ltd. Invests $1.37 Million in 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 26, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 615 words
Body
Ryanair Connor Clark & Lunn Investment Management Ltd. purchased a new position in  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the 3rd quarter, according to its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). The institutional investor  purchased 12,474 shares of the transportation company's stock, 
valued at approximately $1,373,000.  
Several other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also modified their holdings of RYAAY. Advisory 
Services Network LLC purchased a new position in  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter worth $46,000.  JFS Wealth 
Advisors LLC purchased a new position in  Ryanair during the 3rd quarter worth $47,000.  Rockefeller Capital 
Management L.P. increased its holdings in  Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital 
Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $58,000 after purchasing an 
additional 463 shares during the period.  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. increased its holdings in  Ryanair by 
106.8% during the 3rd quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. now owns 1,729 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $192,000 after purchasing an additional 893 shares during the period.  Finally, Park Avenue 
Securities LLC purchased a new position in  Ryanair during the 3rd quarter worth $223,000. Hedge funds and other 
institutional investors own  43.59% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair stock  opened at $106.35 on Wednesday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 
1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. The stock has a market capitalization of $24.10 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -
30.21 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $94.68 and a 1-year high of $127.25. The 
business has a fifty day moving average price of $106.03 and a 200-day moving average price of $109.02.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The business had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%.  On average, 
equities research analysts anticipate that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current 
fiscal year.  
Several research analysts have commented on the company. JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised their price objective on 
Ryanair to  21.00 ($23.86) in a report on Friday, January 21st. Liberum Capital upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Wednesday, January 19th. Oddo Bhf downgraded Ryanair from an 
Connor Clark & Lunn Investment Management Ltd. Invests $1.37 Million in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. Finally, UBS 
Group  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Five equities 
research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a buy rating to the company's 
stock. According to MarketBeat.com, the company  has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average price target of 
$104.87. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Bar Chart 
Load-Date: January 26, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $106.35
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $106.35
American Banking and Market News
January 26, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 569 words
Body
Ryanair Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) gapped up prior to trading on Wednesday . The stock 
had previously closed at $106.35, but opened at $112.70. Ryanair shares last traded at $111.47, with a volume of 
4,653 shares traded.  
RYAAY has been the subject of several research reports. UBS Group  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Raymond James decreased their price objective on Ryanair from 
$140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a research note on Monday, November 29th. 
Morgan Stanley  restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 
2nd. Liberum Capital upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Wednesday, 
January 19th. Finally, Barclays  restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on 
Tuesday, November 2nd. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued  a 
buy rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat, the company  has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an 
average target price of $104.87. 
The stock has a market capitalization of $25.04 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -30.21 and a beta of 1.58. The 
firm has a fifty day moving average of $106.03 and a 200 day moving average of $109.02. The company has a 
debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation company 
reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). The company had revenue 
of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. Ryanair had a negative return on 
equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%.  Research analysts predict that  Ryanair Holdings plc will 
post -1.42 EPS for the current year.  
A number of hedge funds have recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. Assetmark Inc. boosted its position in  
Ryanair by 133.6% during the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $30,000 after purchasing an additional 155 shares in the last quarter.  Advisory Services Network LLC 
purchased a new position in shares of  Ryanair in the second quarter valued at approximately $46,000.  JFS Wealth 
Advisors LLC purchased a new position in shares of  Ryanair in the third quarter valued at approximately $47,000.  
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. lifted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 532.2% in the second quarter. 
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $106.35
Ltd. purchased a new position in shares of  Ryanair in the third quarter valued at approximately $91,000. 
Institutional investors own  43.59% of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY ) 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Diluted Earnings Per Share 
Load-Date: January 26, 2022
End of Document
U.S. Charges Belarusian Officials with Aircraft Piracy
U.S. Charges Belarusian Officials with Aircraft Piracy
Newstex Blogs 
International Law Prof Blog
January 26, 2022 Wednesday 4:45 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 716 words
Byline: InternationalLaw Blogger
Body
Jan 26, 2022( International Law Prof Blog: http://lawprofessors.typepad.com/international_law Delivered by 
Newstex)  
 Tuesday, January 25, 2022 
 U.S. Charges Belarusian Officials with Aircraft Piracy[1] The United States recently charged four Belarusian 
officials with conspiracy to commit aircraft piracy in connection with a fake bomb threat to Ryanair Flight 4978, 
which led to the grounding of the plane in Minsk on May 23 and the arrest of the journalist and government critic 
Roman Protasevich. U.S. prosecutors filed the charges in federal court in New York. 
 Under U.S. law[2], 49 U.S.C. 46502, aircraft piracy is defined as "seizing or exercising control of an aircraft in the 
special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States by force, violence, threat of force or violence, or any form of 
intimidation, and with wrongful intent." The Ryanair Flight is not within the "special aircraft jurisdiction" of the U.S. 
because it was not a U.S. aircraft and was not scheduled to land in the U.S. It was traveling between Greece and 
Lithuania when it was diverted. However, the United States claims jurisdiction over aircraft not within its special 
aircraft jurisdiction if U.S. nationals are on board the aircraft or if the offender is a U.S. national. In this case, news 
reports[3] indicate there were four U.S. nationals on board Ryanair Flight 4978 along with approximately 130 other 
passengers. Whether the actions of the Belarusian officials amount to force, violence, or intimidation, rather than 
trickery, is open to debate. 
 49 U.S.C. 46502 is part of the U.S. implementation of the 1970 Convention for the Suppression of the Unlawful 
Seizure of Aircraft[4], to which both the U.S. and Belarus are parties. States party to that Convention have a duty to 
prosecute or extradite defendants. However, that Convention defines the offense as being committed by a person 
on board the aircraft. This limitation may present problems for the prosecution under the facts of this case were the 
U.S. to rely on that Convention. There are other international conventions that also may apply, such as the Chicago 
and Montreal Conventions, if the U.S. chooses to look to international law. But it appears[5] that the U.S. 
prosecutors have decided to keep it a bit simpler by bringing only a one-count indictment under U.S. law. 
 The four defendants currently remain in Belarus. If convicted, they could face 20 years in prison. 
 (cgb) 
 https://lawprofessors.typepad.com/international_law/2022/01/us-charges-belarusian-officials-with-aircraft-
piracy.html 
 | Permalink[6] 
U.S. Charges Belarusian Officials with Aircraft Piracy
 Comments Post a comment 
 [ 
1]: 
https://lawprofessors.typepad.com/international_law/2022/01/us-charges-belarusian-officials-with-aircraft-
piracy.html 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/49/46502 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/49/46502 [ 4]: https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/49/46502 [ 5]: 
https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/49/46502 
[ 
6]: 
https://lawprofessors.typepad.com/international_law/2022/01/us-charges-belarusian-officials-with-aircraft-
piracy.html 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 26, 2022
End of Document
Potash Outlook 2022: Supply Disruptions Push Prices to 13 Year High
Potash Outlook 2022: Supply Disruptions Push Prices to 13 Year High
Newstex Blogs 
Investing News Network
January 26, 2022 Wednesday 7:06 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 2344 words
Byline: Georgia Williams
Body
Jan 25, 2022( Investing News Network: http://investingnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Click here[1] to read the previous potash outlook. 
 Logistical woes and US sanctions against Belarus added major tailwinds to the potash market in 2021 as prices for 
the valuable fertilizer component soared to US$650 per tonne for the first time since 2008. 
With shipments stymied as a residual result of pandemic-related disruptions, downstream costs for potash spiked to 
a 13 year high during the second half of the year and remain elevated. 
The potash market relies heavily on rail and sea transport, so continued disturbances due to COVID-19 were only 
exacerbated as flooding in BC, Canada ― the leading potash-producing country[2] ― impacted freight movement. 
2021 was especially beneficial for muriate of potash (MOP), the more commonly used of the two potash types[3]. 
As Andy Hemphill, ICIS Fertilizers' senior markets editor, explained, high energy[4] prices, limited supply and strong 
demand throughout the year aided in price growth. 
'Specifically for potash, unlike many other industries ― and indeed, rival fertilizers ― MOP offers were firm 
throughout 2021, and the necessity of food production insulated the industry from the worst ravages of coronavirus-
related lockdowns and logistical mayhem,' he said. 'Added to this is concern for supply stemming from sanctions on 
key supplier Belarus' potash exports via Lithuania, which is still unresolved as of early 2022.' 
 Potash outlook 2022: Potential supply challenges ahead  
Mounting sanctions against Belarus specifically targeting the nation's potash sector added uncertainty to the space 
in Q2 of last year and continue to motivate price activity. 
 The European country ranked third in potash production in 2020, with output totaling 7.3 million metric tonnes (MT). 
It is estimated that global demand for MOP rose to 56 million MT in 2020, up from 2019's 49 million MT. 
In June, the European Union (EU) began levying sanctions on Belarus in response to Belarusian President 
Alexander Lukashenko's mounting human rights abuses. 
'By late June 2021, rumours and speculation indicated Belarus' prized money-spinning MOP export operation would 
soon be subject to sanctions, following the forced grounding of a passenger airliner by Belarusian authorities and 
the removal of activist and journalist Roman Protasevich from a Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY[5]) flight,' said Hemphill, 
noting that the activist remains in detention.  
Potash Outlook 2022: Supply Disruptions Push Prices to 13 Year High
'Four days later, the speculation was proven true, as the European Council slapped sanctions on 78 individuals and 
eight entities, including a ban on travel to the EU and the freezing of assets.' 
The legislation, which passed on June 24, states, 'It shall be prohibited to import, purchase or transfer, directly or 
indirectly, potassium chloride (potash) products listed in Annex VIII from Belarus, whether or not originating in 
Belarus.' The sanctions target an estimated 15 to 20 percent of the potash exported by Belarus. 
The move drove potash prices higher over the second half of the year, and was exacerbated when the US levied its 
own sanctions[6] against Belarus and the Lukashenka regime at the end of the year. 
'Then, compounding the issue, MOP marketing arm Belarusian Potash Company (BPC) itself ― which previously 
dodged the majority of the sanctions, which were instead placed on Belaruskali, the country's state-run mining arm 
― was sanctioned by the US in early December,' Hemphill said. 
Potash prices responded with a dramatic spike, reaching the the US$650 range. 
The US penalties on Belarusian potash will come into full effect in April 2022, the deadline Washington gave BPC's 
clients ― including India, China and Brazil ― to wind down business. Additionally, American sanctions will inhibit 
BPC's ability to access dollar-based financial services, impeding trade on international markets. 
'This is set to upend global MOP trade flows, especially if Lithuania blocks the transit of potash via Klaipeda port,' 
Chris Lawson, head of fertilizers at CRU Group, wrote in a market overview[7]. 'However, we do not expect a 
complete halt of exports from Belarus.' 
For Hemphill, the situation 'leaves BPC's buyers with some questions, and so far no accompanying answers.' 
Several questions the senior markets editor mentioned include: If Lithuania's port becomes unavailable, can 
Lukashenko thrash out an agreement to transport tonnes via train to Russian ports for export?Would such a route 
offer the security of supply MOP buyers demand in a market witnessing decade-high prices?Would a jaunt across 
Russia increase logistics costs so much that rival MOP majors' tonnes will appear more agreeably priced for 
buyers? For now, with prices sitting at a decade high and supply from the market's third largest producer facing 
global sanctions, the future is full of uncertainty. Add to that strong grower economics and historically low grain and 
grape seed inventories, and potash prices could continue their upward trend well into the new year. 
 Potash outlook 2022: Miners benefit amid market volatility  
As pressure mounts against Belarus' potash sector, production in Canada has become increasingly important. 
Shares of leading producer Nutrien (TSX:NTR[8],NYSE:NTR) have climbed 38 percent over the last 12 months.  
In its Q3 earnings report, the Canadian miner credits 'decisive actions we made across our business units and 
leveraging our competitive advantages to benefit from strong market fundamentals' as factors that aided growth. 
Nutrien's 2021 share price performance. 
 Chart via Trading Economics[9]. 
 Over the first nine months of 2021, Nutrien reported record adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation 
and amortization (EBITDA) of US$4.7 billion. 
Additionally, the Canadian company, which has six potash mines in Saskatchewan, achieved record production and 
sales volumes of nearly 7 million MT[10] during the first six months of 2021. 
Demand is forecast to continue trending up this year amid positive market fundamentals. 'We expect growers to 
maximize planted acreage and yields in 2022 as projected US grower corn and soybean margins are approximately 
60 percent and 35 percent, respectively, above 10-year average levels,' Nutrien's Q3 statement[11] notes. 
In South America, Brazilian growers were anticipated to increase total plantings by 5 million to 7 million acres amid 
record grower profitability and supportive rainfall. 
However, Brazil has seen spot MOP prices skyrocket to the US$800 range since December, potentially impacting 
soybean crops. Some analysts are speculating that prices could move as high as US$900 to US$950 in Brazil in 
Q1. 
 Potash outlook 2022: Potential price motivators  
While some of the factors that impacted the potash market in 2021 will remain relevant as 2022 carries on, CRU 
sees various more prevalent issues easing, helping to alleviate upward price pressure. 
By the end of the Q1 2022, the business intelligence company sees 2021's freight challenges subsiding following a 
year that saw freight rates on the main dry bulk trade routes rise between 33 and 120 percent. 
Potash Outlook 2022: Supply Disruptions Push Prices to 13 Year High
'Rates have recently declined, and we anticipate this trend to continue,' the firm's January fertilizer overview[12] 
reads. 'Bulk freights are anticipated to be close to historical norms by the end of Q1.' 
While growers will get some relief in terms of downstream freight costs, gas[13] prices are expected to remain 
elevated, which will add to production and transport overhead. 
Longer term, the continued impact of climate change ― which among other things is making crop growth more 
difficult ― will also have an effect on the potash market. 
'It's certainly a factor to consider, but the growing global population is by far the bigger influence on supply/demand 
dynamics,' Hemphill said. 'People have to eat, and fertilizers are the key to meeting that demand. Potash supply 
and demand will continue to increase over the next 10 years.' 
Making crop growth more challenging is only one of the potential effects climate change may have on the potash 
market.  
In a September report[14], Fertilizer Canada responded to the Canadian government's proposal to reduce on-farm 
emissions by 30 percent. The agricultural[15] group, which represents manufacturers, wholesalers and retail 
distributors, estimates that cutting fertilizer use to reduce on-farm emissions could cost growers nearly C$48 billion 
over the next eight years. 
'If Canada adopted the EU model, the potential economic impact of reduced fertilizer use would be devastating to 
Canadian farmers,' the report reads. 'To avoid this, any plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions must be done 
through sustainable agricultural intensification; an approach that allows for significant reductions in agricultural 
emissions without risking Canada's contribution to global supply of food or economic growth within the sector.' 
South of the border, US farmers are demanding an investigation into the broad fertilizer industry. 
In December, US agricultural research and policy non-profit Family Farm Action Alliance (FFAA) called on the 
Department of Justice[16] to launch an antitrust investigation into high fertilizer prices. 
The FFAA called fertilizer producers a 'monopoly power' that is using unfair pricing tactics. While the US 
government decides whether to investigate, there are still the sanctions on Belarusian potash. 
'Despite the bluster and political maneuvering, the lack of official comment from the Belarusian government and its 
state-run potash firms on the plans for future potash exports has left buyers ― which need to secure tonnes early 
due to a month or more lead times from mine to field ― deeply concerned," Hemphill said. 'Some speculate BPC is 
keeping its cards close on the possibility of exporting via Russia, while investors are buying into rival majors, and in 
some cases, throwing their lot in with smaller, upcoming players.' 
For Hemphill, the question is whether buyers are willing to purchase tonnes at these high rates forever, move away 
to a different fertilizer or simply buy lower-quality blends or mixed tonnes instead. 
As 2022 progresses, CRU sees prices trending lower despite the market uncertainty. 
'We forecast a correction in prices, but not immediately. Gas/coal[17] prices remain high, and supply is tight. Prices 
are expected to hold at high levels over Q1. Declines will begin in Q2, with more stark corrections in H2," said the 
firm. 
 Don't forget to follow us @INN_Resource[18] for real-time updates! 
 Securities Disclosure: I, Georgia Williams, hold no direct investment interest in any company mentioned in this 
article. 
Editorial Disclosure: The Investing News Network does not guarantee the accuracy or thoroughness of the 
information reported in the interviews it conducts. The opinions expressed in these interviews do not reflect the 
opinions of the Investing News Network and do not constitute investment advice. All readers are encouraged to 
perform their own due diligence. 
From Your Site Articles 
 Related Articles Around the Web 
 [ 1]: https://investingnews.com /daily/resource-investing/agriculture-investing/potash-investing/potash-outlook/ [ 2]: 
https://investingnews.com/daily/resource-investing/agriculture-investing/potash-investing/top-potash-countries-by-
production/ [ 3]: https://investingnews.com/daily/resource-investing/agriculture-investing/potash-investing/types-of-
potash-sop-mop/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://investingnews.com/category/daily/resource-investing/energy-investing/ 
[ 
5]: 
https://investingnews.com/stock-information/?symbol=ryaay:us 
[ 
6]: 
https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-
releases/jy0512 [ 7]: https://www.crugroup.com/knowledge-and-insights/insights/2022/cru-fertilizers-top-ten-calls-of-
2022/ [ 8]: https://investingnews.com/stock-information/?symbol=ntr:CA [ 9]: https://tradingeconomics.com/ntr:cn [ 
10]: https://www.nutrien.com/investors/news-releases/2021-nutrien-reports-record-earnings-and-excellent-outlook [ 
11]: https://www.nutrien.com/investors/news-releases/2021-nutrien-delivers-record-third-quarter-results-and-raises-
Potash Outlook 2022: Supply Disruptions Push Prices to 13 Year High
full-year [ 12]: https://www.crugroup.com/knowledge-and-insights/insights/2022/cru-fertilizers-top-ten-calls-of-2022/ [ 
13]: 
https://investingnews.com/category/daily/resource-investing/energy-investing/oil-and-gas-investing/ 
[ 
14]: 
https://fertilizercanada.ca/news-events/news/new-report-warns-of-potential-for-48-billion-loss-in-farm-income-if-
fertilizer-reductions-are-required-of-growers/ 
[ 
15]: 
https://investingnews.com/category/daily/resource-
investing/agriculture-investing/ [ 16]: https://www.argusmedia.com/en/news/2282446-us-farm-group-asks-doj-to-
investigate-fertilizer-prices 
[ 
17]: 
https://investingnews.com/category/daily/resource-investing/industrial-metals-
investing/coal-investing/ [ 18]: https://twitter.com/inn_resource 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 26, 2022
End of Document
Wednesday preview: Wizz Air Holdings , CMC Markets , Pets at Home Group
Wednesday preview: Wizz Air Holdings, CMC Markets, Pets at Home Group
 
Proactive Investors (UK)
January 25, 2022 Tuesday 03:39 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Proactive UK Ltd All Rights Reserved
Length: 599 words
Byline: Proactive
Body
Wizz Air Holdings PLC (AIM:WIZZ) had been seeing a recovery in demand building last summer which was 
postponed by sharply rising Covid cases and restrictions introduced in Central & Eastern Europe, even ahead of the 
rise of Omicron, which then impacted in December and into January.
Broker Peel Hunt expects consensus forecast losses for the full 2022 fiscal year will become (EURO)50-100mln 
larger, "but this should not surprise the market given Ryanair's warning in December".
For the third quarter, passenger numbers of 7.8mln out of 10.1mln capacity have already been reported, with the 
analysts looking for revenue of (EURO)675mln, an operating loss of (EURO)203mln and a loss before tax of 
(EURO)226mln.
Investors will be keen to see an update on Ukraine, where Wizz operates from six airports and hd had plans to 
expand after an 'open skies' deal in October 2021.
Volatility is good for CMC Markets
A trading update is expected from CMC Markets, with the sharp rise in volatility this past week likely to haven 
woken up day-traders after what had been a languid start to the year.
Volatility often means commission and margin for CFD and spread betting operations.
Wednesday preview: Wizz Air Holdings , CMC Markets , Pets at Home Group
Indeed, the easing of Covid lockdowns saw most stocks do well in recent months but things proved stickier for 
trading firms like CMC - as last year they saw a 'trade from home' boom boost customer numbers and account 
activity.
More recently, however, CMC flagged a 45% fall in revenue in its latest half year as active customer numbers 
dropped 9% - though this is still well up on the pre-pandemic total.
Some investors may indeed look past the financial metrics and KPIs to instead focus on outlook and strategy.
An 'exploratory review' was launched in December over a possible break up to unlock shareholder value, with 
CMC's retail derivatives - or 'leveraged' operations potentially being split from its investment platform and business-
to-business operations.
The group pledged to start the review before the end of 2021 and complete it before the end of June, so, perhaps 
investors shouldn't get their hopes up too high just yet.
Interim results in November reiterated full-year guidance with core underlying business said to be trending well 
above pre-pandemic levels.
Cats and dog stock
Pets at Home Group PLC (LSE:PETS) is scheduled to publish its third-quarter trading statement.
The FTSE 250-listed retail chain, which sells food, toys and bedding, and offers grooming and veterinary services, 
last reported in November when it revealed like-for-like sales growth of 22.2% for the 28-week period to 7 October, 
with two-year growth of 28.6%.
Helped by strong growth in pet ownership continues, Pets said growth was "stronger than expected" and that it 
expects full-year profits will be at the top end of the range of City expectations.
While it was not immune to the supply chain problems, the company noted that the vast majority of its product 
range is sourced domestically on lead times, with boss Peter Pritchard declaring "our business has never been 
more robust".
Announcement expected on Wednesday 26 January:
Trading updates: Brewin Dolphin Holdings Plc (LSE:BRW) (Brewin Dolphin Holdings Plc (LSE:BRW)), CMC 
Markets PLC (LSE:CMCX) (CMC Markets PLC (LSE:CMCX)), Fresnillo PLC (LSE:FRES) (Fresnillo PLC 
(LSE:FRES)), Pets at Home Group PLC (LSE:PETS) (Pets at Home Group PLC (LSE:PETS)), Quilter PLC 
(LSE:QLT) (Quilter PLC (LSE:QLT)), The Sage Group PLC (LSE:SGE) (The Sage Group PLC (LSE:SGE)), Wizz 
Air Holdings PLC (AIM:WIZZ) (Wizz Air Holdings PLC (AIM:WIZZ))
Economic data: Federal Reserve's Monetary Policy Decision (US)
Load-Date: January 25, 2022
End of Document
Nissay Asset Management Corp Japan ADV Has $339,000 Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
Nissay Asset Management Corp Japan ADV Has $339,000 Holdings in 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
January 25, 2022 Tuesday 12:20 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 980 words
Body
Jan 25, 2022( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Nissay Asset Management Corp Japan ADV lessened its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
6.9% in the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the Securities & Exchange 
Commission. The institutional investor owned 3,081 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 227 
shares during the quarter. Nissay Asset Management Corp Japan ADV's holdings in Ryanair were worth $339,000 
at the end of the most recent reporting period.  
A number of other hedge funds also recently bought and sold shares of the stock. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
raised its stake in Ryanair by 6.3% during the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after acquiring an additional 296,366 shares in 
the last quarter. Capital International Investors raised its stake in Ryanair by 3.1% during the second quarter. 
Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,067,172,000 after acquiring an additional 294,131 shares in the last quarter. William Blair Investment 
Management LLC raised its stake in Ryanair by 14.3% during the second quarter. William Blair Investment 
Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $243,862,000 after 
acquiring an additional 281,774 shares in the last quarter. Pendal Group Ltd acquired a new position in Ryanair 
during the third quarter worth about $30,945,000. Finally, Baillie Gifford & Co. raised its stake in Ryanair by 2.5% 
during the third quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $1,186,170,000 after acquiring an additional 264,133 shares in the last quarter. 43.59% of the stock is owned 
by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Several analysts have recently weighed in on the company. Wolfe Research cut Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "peer perform" rating in a report on Wednesday, January 12th. Raymond James reduced their price 
target on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on the stock in a report on Monday, 
November 29th. UBS Group reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 
28th. Morgan Stanley reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. 
Finally, Barclays reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Five 
investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued a buy rating to the company's 
Nissay Asset Management Corp Japan ADV Has $339,000 Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
stock. According to data from MarketBeat, Ryanair presently has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus target 
price of $104.87. 
Ryanair stock[1] opened at $111.93 on Tuesday. The stock has a market capitalization of $25.37 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of -31.80 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week high 
of $127.25. The stock's 50 day moving average price is $106.19 and its two-hundred day moving average price is 
$109.03. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 
by ($0.64). The business had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. On average, 
equities research analysts forecast that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 EPS for the current year.  
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: How is diluted EPS different from basic EPS?[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/what-is-diluted-earnings-per-share/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 25, 2022
End of Document
Johnson scraps Covid-19 travel tests for jabbed
Johnson scraps Covid-19 travel tests for jabbed
City A.M.
January 25, 2022 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 418 words
Byline: MILLIE TURNER
Body
FULLY vaccinated travellers flying into England will no longer require Covid-19 tests, Boris Johnson confirmed 
yesterday.
The government had been due to review the pandemic travel rules amid calls from the aviation industry to cut 
curbs.
Chief executives at Ryanair, Easyjet, British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and Jet2 sought assurance from government 
yesterday that it will not haul in further border closures if a new variant emerges.
British Airways' chairman and CEO Sean Doyle said the announcement "provides a welcome boost to the travel 
industry and UK economy… It sends a clear message to the rest of the world that global Britain is back in 
business."
A Virgin Atlantic spokesperson added that the removal of testing for vaccinated passengers is "the final step in 
moving towards frictionless air travel, allowing passengers to reconnect with loved ones and business colleagues".
The move is expected to bring a "huge boost" to business travel, explained Clive Wratten, CEO of the Business 
Travel Association. "It is the vital shot in the arm corporates and their employees need to have confidence to deliver 
ambitious international programmes that will enable a truly global Britain," Wratten added.
Ian Bell, head of travel and tourism at audit and consulting firm RSM, described the move as "another win for the 
travel sector" as it paves the way for more international travel and cheaper holidays.
Johnson scraps Covid-19 travel tests for jabbed
"The industry will always be cautious of any new variants and the reintroduction of measures, and like everyone it 
will need to learn to live with Covid-19; but today it is hoped that the sector is entering a period of stability with 
which the industry can look to recover."
It came as Ryanair's boss Michael O'Leary announced that the airline is expected to return to profit this year, as the 
Irish carrier looks to fly 165m passengers.
The chief executive forecast carrier occupancy to climb to between 90 per cent and 95 per cent this summer.
The budget airline will once again be profitable once occupancy reaches 80 per cent, O'Leary told Spanish 
newspaper Cinco Dias, after a gruelling couple of years for the industry.
Ryanair, Europe's largest airline in terms of passenger numbers, flew 130m passengers in the year to 2020. 
However, travel restrictions saw the airline fly just 27m passengers the following year.
The recent emergence of the Omicron variant also dented Ryanair's passenger numbers, which sank seven per 
cent between November and December as fresh travel curbs were imposed across Europe.
Load-Date: January 25, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Price Target Raised to €21.00 at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Price Target Raised to €21.00 at JPMorgan Chase 
& Co.
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
January 25, 2022 Tuesday 8:11 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 859 words
Body
Jan 25, 2022( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgRyanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) had its target price 
boosted by JPMorgan Chase & Co.[1] to €21.00 ($23.86) in a research report released on Friday, The Fly[2] 
reports. 
Other analysts have also recently issued research reports about the stock. Barclays reiterated an overweight rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Wolfe Research cut shares of Ryanair from 
an outperform rating to a peer perform rating in a research report on Wednesday, January 12th. Raymond James 
dropped their target price on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an outperform rating for the 
company in a research report on Monday, November 29th. Oddo Bhf cut shares of Ryanair from an outperform 
rating to a neutral rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Finally, Morgan Stanley reiterated an 
overweight rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Five analysts have rated 
the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned a buy rating to the company. Based on data from 
MarketBeat.com, Ryanair presently has an average rating of Buy and an average target price of $104.87. 
RYAAY stock[3] opened at $111.93 on Friday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 
1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. The company has a 50 day moving average price of $106.19 and a 200 day moving 
average price of $109.03. Ryanair has a fifty-two week low of $94.68 and a fifty-two week high of $127.25. The 
stock has a market capitalization of $25.37 billion, a PE ratio of -31.80 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). 
Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The company had 
revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion. As a group, 
equities analysts expect that Ryanair will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Institutional investors and hedge funds have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. Assetmark Inc. 
boosted its stake in Ryanair by 133.6% in the 3rd quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $30,000 after purchasing an additional 155 shares during the period. Advisory 
Services Network LLC acquired a new position in Ryanair in the 2nd quarter worth $46,000. JFS Wealth Advisors 
LLC acquired a new position in Ryanair in the 3rd quarter worth $47,000. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. 
boosted its stake in Ryanair by 532.2% in the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Price Target Raised to €21.00 at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $58,000 after purchasing an additional 463 shares during the 
period. Finally, Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. acquired a new position in Ryanair in the 3rd quarter 
worth $91,000. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.59% of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: What is the Consumer Price Index (CPI)?[4] 
http://www.thefly.com 
 [ 
1]: 
http://o1.qnsr.com/cgi/r?;n=203;c=1649873;s=7273;x=7936;f=201801021148170;u=j;z=TIMESTAMP;src=639762; [ 
2]: 
http://www.thefly.com/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-consumer-price-index/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 25, 2022
End of Document
Nissay Asset Management Corp Japan ADV Has $339,000 Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
Nissay Asset Management Corp Japan ADV Has $339,000 Stock Holdings in 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
January 25, 2022 Tuesday 12:05 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 962 words
Body
Jan 25, 2022( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Nissay Asset Management Corp Japan ADV decreased its holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
6.9% in the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the SEC. The institutional 
investor owned 3,081 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 227 shares during the quarter. 
Nissay Asset Management Corp Japan ADV's holdings in Ryanair were worth $339,000 as of its most recent filing 
with the SEC.  
Several other hedge funds have also made changes to their positions in RYAAY. William Blair Investment 
Management LLC grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 7.1% in the 3rd quarter. William Blair Investment 
Management LLC now owns 2,413,675 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $265,662,000 after 
purchasing an additional 159,922 shares during the last quarter. Rafferty Asset Management LLC bought a new 
stake in shares of Ryanair in the 3rd quarter worth about $266,000. Sawtooth Solutions LLC grew its holdings in 
shares of Ryanair by 27.8% in the 3rd quarter. Sawtooth Solutions LLC now owns 2,658 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $293,000 after purchasing an additional 578 shares during the last quarter. 
Barclays PLC grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 51.8% in the 3rd quarter. Barclays PLC now owns 51,024 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $5,616,000 after purchasing an additional 17,410 shares during 
the last quarter. Finally, BlackRock Inc. grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 26.5% in the 3rd quarter. 
BlackRock Inc. now owns 1,132,424 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $124,636,000 after 
purchasing an additional 237,115 shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors own 43.59% of the 
company's stock.  
Several equities research analysts have recently weighed in on the stock. JPMorgan Chase & Co. upped their 
target price on shares of Ryanair to €21.00 ($23.86) in a report on Friday. Morgan Stanley reissued an "overweight" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Wolfe Research lowered shares of Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a report on Wednesday, January 12th. Barclays reissued 
an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Liberum Capital raised 
shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Wednesday, January 19th. Five equities 
research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned a buy rating to the company's 
Nissay Asset Management Corp Japan ADV Has $339,000 Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
stock. Based on data from MarketBeat, the company currently has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus 
target price of $104.87. 
Shares of NASDAQ RYAAY[1] opened at $111.93 on Tuesday. The firm has a market capitalization of $25.37 
billion, a PE ratio of -31.80 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a 
debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $94.68 and a 1 year high of $127.25. The 
firm's 50-day moving average is $106.19 and its 200-day moving average is $109.03.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation company 
reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). The 
business had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion. 
Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. As a group, equities 
research analysts anticipate that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Stock Symbols, CUSIP and Other Stock Identifiers[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/stock-symbols-cusip-stock-identifiers/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 25, 2022
End of Document
Boost for airlines as COVID testing for arrivals set to be scrapped
Boost for airlines as COVID testing for arrivals set to be scrapped 
 
Proactive Investors (UK)
January 24, 2022 Monday 03:49 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Proactive UK Ltd All Rights Reserved
Length: 277 words
Byline: Jai Singh
Body
Boris Johnson announced that Coronavirus (COVID-19) testing for fully vaccinated people arriving in the country is 
set to be scrapped in what is a boost for the airline industry.  
Campaigning from airlines and falling Omicron cases are behind the easing of the travel testing rules, with Plan B 
restrictions also set to be scrapped altogether in England from Thursday.  
"Although we have to be cautious, we are now moving through the Omicron wave, and you can see the figures are 
starting to get better," said Johnson. 
Since the outbreak of the Omicron variant, many of the low-cost carriers (LCC), such as easyJet, saw the amount of 
passengers on flights fall in December following some months of recovering numbers. 
Ryanair was forced to slash its profit guidance last month after it forecasted a fall in traffic in both December and 
January due to COVID-19.  
Shares in LCCs fell again, though this was more likely to due to the sell everything mentality on a terrible day for the 
market overall.
Wizz Air shares are down 4%, with easyJet down nearly 5% in afternoon trading.  
Current passenger numbers at Heathrow are still less than half of pre-pandemic levels, with December seeing just 
over 3mln passengers, though today's news left the boss of easyJet optimistic that a busy summer is ahead.  
Boost for airlines as COVID testing for arrivals set to be scrapped
"We commend the government for removing all testing. easyJet plans to return to near 2019 levels of flying this 
summer and so we can't wait to welcome our customers back onboard." Johan Lundgren, easyJet chief executive 
said to Sky News.  
The confirmed date for the rule change has yet to be announced, though the Travel Secretary is set to confirm the 
change later.
  
Load-Date: January 24, 2022
End of Document
Daa Welcomes Ryanair Announcement Of Largest Ever Dublin Airport Summer Programme
Daa Welcomes Ryanair Announcement Of Largest Ever Dublin Airport 
Summer Programme
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
January 24, 2022
Copyright 2022 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 600 words
Body
daa has welcomed the announcement by Ryanair today of its largest ever summer schedule from Dublin Airport 
which will see 120 destinations and over 900 weekly flights available from the country's busiest and best-connected 
airport this summer.
Ryanair will also increase its investment at Dublin Airport with the delivery of an additional aircraft, bringing to 33 
the number of aircraft at its Dublin base this summer. Eleven new summer routes will be on offer from Dublin Airport 
this summer versus last year, on the strength of enhanced traffic recovery incentive schemes for its airline 
customers like Ryanair who are looking to grow their business at Dublin Airport.
Dalton Philips, daa CEO, welcomed today's announcement by Ryanair saying:
"Government funding announced in Budget 2022 has allowed daa offer additional attractive incentives to our airline 
partners to rebuild international connectivity from Dublin Airport and this investment by Ryanair for the busy 
summer season ahead is testament to that."
"Together we have a long journey to travel as we seek to reconnect Ireland to the rest of the world and fulfil our role 
as an economic enabler for the Irish economy in terms of trade, tourism and social connectivity but today is a 
further welcome development in rebuilding our extensive route network from Dublin Airport."
Minister of State at the Department of Transport, Hildegarde Naughton T.D. said:
"Government funding of (EURO)160m to our airports in recent months including over (EURO)97m to Dublin Airport 
has put daa in a position to offer attractive incentives to their airline partners and this announcement by Ryanair 
represents the fruits of that. The restoration and growth of the route network out of Dublin Airport this summer is 
welcome news as we rebuild the international connectivity stymied by the global pandemic."
"I would also like to acknowledge the airline industry for their continued support to Government in implementing the 
travel restrictions that have been introduced as public health measures throughout the pandemic. I appreciate that 
this has been an onerous task at times, especially when considering the impact that these necessary measures 
have had on the aviation industry. There are brighter days ahead and we look forward to continued easing of 
measures as circumstances allow."
Daa Welcomes Ryanair Announcement Of Largest Ever Dublin Airport Summer Programme
Niall Gibbons, Chief Executive of Tourism Ireland, said:
"Today's launch of Ryanair's summer 2022 schedule at Dublin Airport is really good news for overseas tourism and 
another important step on the road to recovery for our sector. We warmly welcome the announcement of new 
services - including the new flights from Nuremberg and Nimes. These new services will certainly help boost 
tourism from the important German and French markets. Tourism Ireland is committed to working with Dublin 
Airport, Ryanair and our other key partners, through co-operative marketing, to drive demand for flights to Ireland."
"As an island, the importance of convenient, direct, non-stop flights cannot be overstated - they are absolutely 
critical to achieving growth in inbound tourism. Today's announcement by Ryanair and Dublin Airport is really 
positive and augurs well for the return of growth in overseas tourism to Ireland in 2022 and beyond."
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: January 31, 2022
End of Document
Lufthansa loses final appeal in Hahn state aid battle
Lufthansa loses final appeal in Hahn state aid battle
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
January 24, 2022
Copyright 2022 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 531 words
Body
Lufthansa (LH, Frankfurt Int'l) has lost an appeal against the European Commission in a dispute over millions in 
regional aid that the federal states of Rhineland-Palatinate and Hesse gave to Frankfurt Hahn Airport, a judgement 
published on January 20 shows.
Confirming two earlier rulings, the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg rejected the lawsuit and closed the 
case (number C-594/19) in which the German carrier had taken a stand against a 2014 decision allowing the state 
aid, provided from 2009 to 2011, as a result of which Ryanair (FR, Dublin Int'l) allegedly benefitted through the 
airport's contracts on discounted airport charges.
The ruling confirmed previous judgements at the European Court of Justice in July 2021 and at the General Court 
of the European Union in 2019.
Lufthansa first took legal action by objecting to a European Commission decision in 2014 approving funds to 
Frankfurt Hahn from the regional authorities in the form of a credit line exceeding EUR49 million euros (USD55.5 
million).
In its ruling, the European Court of Justice said the German carrier had not been individually affected by the 
decision in Brussels and that the applicant had failed to provide evidence to demonstrate that the aid had 
substantially harmed its position.
Lufthansa, whose main hub is Frankfurt Int'l, "had not established a significant fall in its turnover, non-negligible 
financial losses, or a significant reduction in its market share on the markets in question following the adoption of 
the measures in favour of Frankfurt-Hahn Airport, even though the latter would have been transferred to Ryanair," 
the judge said in summing up.
Indeed, "the applicant's arguments were limited to referring to the general competitive pressure exerted by low-cost 
airlines on traditional airlines, [but] such a finding is not to show that the applicant was substantially affected by the 
contested decision."
Lufthansa commented to ch-aviation: "We regret that the court did not follow our argumentation in these legal 
proceedings. We remain convinced that certain grants to Hahn Airport as well as contracts of the airport with 
Lufthansa loses final appeal in Hahn state aid battle
Ryanair are not compatible with European state aid law and we will continue to work for a level playing field in 
airline competition."
Ryanair began flying to the former military airport in 2001 and at the airline's request its name was changed from 
Hahn to Frankfurt Hahn. Lufthansa launched legal proceedings against Ryanair the following year, arguing that 
using "Frankfurt" in the name was false advertising. A ruling allowed the name to stay but forced the budget carrier 
to clarify in its advertising that it was 120 kilometres by road from the city of Frankfurt.
Twenty years later, in October 2021, the airport's operator Flughafen Frankfurt-Hahn GmbH filed for insolvency but 
vowed to continue operating.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: January 31, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Price Target Raised to €21.00 at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Price Target Raised to €21.00 at JPMorgan Chase 
& Co.
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
January 24, 2022 Monday 10:06 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 937 words
Body
Jan 24, 2022( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgRyanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) had its price target 
upped by JPMorgan Chase & Co.[1] to €21.00 ($23.86) in a research note issued to investors on Friday, The Fly[2] 
reports. 
RYAAY has been the subject of several other research reports. Barclays reissued an overweight rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. UBS Group reaffirmed a neutral rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Morgan Stanley reaffirmed an overweight rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Raymond James dropped their price objective on 
Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an outperform rating for the company in a research note on Monday, 
November 29th. Finally, Liberum Capital raised Ryanair from a hold rating to a buy rating in a research note on 
Wednesday, January 19th. Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have 
assigned a buy rating to the stock. According to MarketBeat, the company presently has an average rating of Buy 
and an average target price of $104.87. 
RYAAY stock[3] opened at $113.44 on Friday. The business has a fifty day moving average of $106.25 and a two-
hundred day moving average of $108.99. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-
to-equity ratio of 0.96. The stock has a market cap of $25.71 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.23 and a beta of 
1.58. Ryanair has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week high of $127.25.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation company 
reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). The 
business had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. Ryanair had a 
negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. As a group, sell-side analysts anticipate 
that Ryanair will post -1.42 EPS for the current year.  
A number of hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently made changes to their positions in the 
business. Baillie Gifford & Co. lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 2.5% during the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now 
owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,186,170,000 after buying an additional 
264,133 shares during the last quarter. Capital International Investors lifted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 
3.1% in the 2nd quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares during the last quarter. FMR LLC 
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Price Target Raised to €21.00 at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
lifted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 1.4% in the 2nd quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $681,580,000 after purchasing an additional 87,015 shares during the last 
quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC lifted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 6.3% in the 2nd quarter. Lazard 
Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 
after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Janus Henderson Group PLC lifted its 
holdings in shares of Ryanair by 0.8% in the 3rd quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $325,096,000 after purchasing an additional 23,924 shares during 
the last quarter. 43.59% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: What€™s a Black Swan?[4] 
http://www.thefly.com 
 [ 
1]: 
http://o1.qnsr.com/cgi/r?;n=203;c=1649873;s=7273;x=7936;f=201801021148170;u=j;z=TIMESTAMP;src=639762; [ 
2]: 
http://www.thefly.com/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/whats-a-black-swan/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 24, 2022
End of Document
AIRLINES SAY NEW NORMAL NEEDED NOW; RIVALS JOIN FORCES TO CALL FOR END TO TESTING 
RULES HOLDING BACK REBOUND
AIRLINES SAY NEW NORMAL NEEDED NOW; RIVALS JOIN FORCES TO 
CALL FOR END TO TESTING RULES HOLDING BACK REBOUND
City A.M.
January 24, 2022 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 367 words
Byline: MILLIE TURNER
Body
AIRLINE bosses have called on the government to rule out the introduction of border closures even if a new Covid-
19 variant emerges.
The government last week brought an end to so-called Plan B restrictions, which saw self-isolation rules and work 
from home guidance scrapped.
With the UK believed to be past the peak of the Omicron wave of Covid-19, and other restrictions falling away, chief 
executives at Ryanair, Easyjet, British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and Jet2 have written to the government calling for 
an end to travel curbs, too.
"Visit Britain estimates nearly £50bn in tourism spend from overseas has been lost since the pandemic began - all 
resulting in less tax revenue to fund public services including the NHS," the airline bosses wrote.
They added that travel restrictions have a "limited effect" in preventing the spread of Covid-19 and that aviation 
recovery "is vital; not just to the more than half a million people working in it, but to everyone who lives and works in 
the UK".
Flight bookings had been increasing but new restrictions introduced in early December grounded the industry's 
post-pandemic rebound.
AIRLINES SAY NEW NORMAL NEEDED NOW; RIVALS JOIN FORCES TO CALL FOR END TO TESTING 
RULES HOLDING BACK REBOUND
It follows warnings from London mayor Sadiq Khan, who last week cautioned that tourism in the capital may not 
return to pre-pandemic levels for another three years. Business trips, overnight stays and their associated spending 
brought £18.8bn to the capital in 2019.
"It is obvious that many of
London's hospitality, retail, cultural and leisure businesses that rely heavily on tourists will be fighting for their 
survival for months to come, meaning many thousands of jobs are still at risk," Khan said.
London's recovery will fuel national recovery, explained UK Hospitality boss Kate Nicholls, "so it's vital to get 
domestic and tourist footfall up".
The Government is set to review travel requirements next week.
Currently, vaccinated travellers flying out of England must pre-book a Covid-19 test, to be taken on the second day 
of their arrival. Travel bosses are helpful that the tests, which can add hundreds to the price of a family holiday, will 
be ditched.
A Government spokesperson said: "We continue to keep our travel measures under review and no decisions have 
been made."
Load-Date: January 24, 2022
End of Document
Airport rules Carriers must fly more to retain slots
Airport rules Carriers must fly more to retain slots
Financial Times (London, England)
January 24, 2022 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 437 words
Body
Airlines will be forced to fly more regularly this summer to retain their take-off and landing rights at UK airports, in a 
sign that ministers expect a rapid recovery in air travel in the coming months.
The Department for Transport said carriers would have to hand back airport slots if they are not used 70 per cent of 
the time from March 27, up from the current threshold of 50 per cent. Airlines are allocated specific timeslots at 
busy airports to help ensure runways are used efficiently.
These landing rights are some of airlines' most lucrative assets, and can be traded for tens of millions of pounds. In 
normal times the "use it or lose it" threshold is set at 80 per cent, but the rules were waived at the start of the 
pandemic to stop carriers from flying empty planes just to maintain their landing rights, a phenomenon known as 
"ghost flights".
"As demand for flights returns, it's right we gradually move back to the previous rules while making sure we 
continue to provide the sector with the support it needs," said Robert Courts, aviation minister.
The issue of airport slots was thrust into the spotlight earlier this month after German flag carrier Lufthansa said it 
would run 18,000 half-empty "ghost flights" this winter to comply with the EU's slot rules.
Brussels, like the UK, set a usage threshold of 50 per cent on slots this winter, and has said this will rise to 64 per 
cent in the summer.
But Lufthansa said the sudden impact of the Omicron coronavirus variant and travel restrictions meant it would 
operate uneconomical flights to maintain its slot portfolio.
Airport rules Carriers must fly more to retain slots
The reports attracted criticism from European politicians and climate activist Greta Thunberg.
DfT insisted its new rules would help reduce ghost flights, while ensuring slots were used where there is demand.
The changes unveiled today also included a waiver to allow airlines additional flexibility if destinations are hit by 
new travel restrictions.
In setting the 70 per cent threshold, the UK has tried to find a middle ground between competing aviation interests.
Many low-cost carriers are hoping to expand and would like to snap up slots, while network airlines, whose long-
haul routes have been slower to recover, have pushed to retain their landing rights.
Marion Geoffroy, managing director of Wizz Air UK, said the changes were "a step in the right direction".
"As we see more and more markets return to normal with the easing of Covid domestic and travel restrictions, we 
know there is significant pent-up demand for travel," she said.
Ryanair, British Airways and Iata, the airline trade body, did not respond to requests for comment.
Graphic
 
Busier skies: ministers expect a rapid recovery in air travel in the coming months - Steve Parsons/PA
Load-Date: January 23, 2022
End of Document
Market Chatter: Ryanair Will Return to Profitability if It Can Fly 165 Million Passengers in Fiscal 2023, CEO 
Says
Market Chatter: Ryanair Will Return to Profitability if It Can Fly 165 Million 
Passengers in Fiscal 2023, CEO Says
MT Newswires Live Briefs
January 24, 2022 Monday 9:03 AM EST
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 160 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) will return to profitability if it is able to fly 165 million passengers in the fiscal year 
ending in March 2023, Chief Executive Officer Michael O'Leary said in an interview with Cinco Dias published 
Monday.
O'Leary told the Spanish newspaper he expects occupancy on the airline's jets to reach between 90% and 95% this 
summer. Ryanair is profitable when occupancy reaches 80%, O'Leary was quoted as saying.
In Ryanair's current fiscal year ending in March, the company is on track to fly 150 million passengers and trim 
losses to between 100 million euros ($113 million) and 200 million euros, O'Leary said.
The company's shares fell 3.8% in recent premarket activity Monday.
(Market Chatter news is derived from conversations with market professionals globally. This information is believed 
to be from reliable sources but may include rumor and speculation. Accuracy is not guaranteed.)
Price: 109.08, Change: -4.36, Percent Change: -3.84
Load-Date: January 24, 2022
End of Document
Market Chatter: British Airways, Ryanair Ask UK To Allow Restriction-Free Travel For Vaccinated Passengers
Market Chatter: British Airways, Ryanair Ask UK To Allow Restriction-Free 
Travel For Vaccinated Passengers
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
January 24, 2022 Monday 00:14
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 146 words
Body
 Airlines asked the UK government to end its COVID-19 restrictions on international travel for fully vaccinated 
passengers, Bloomberg News reported Monday.
The International Consolidated Airlines (IAG.L)-owned British Airways, Ryanair (RY4C.IR), and other operators 
wrote a letter to UK Health Secretary Sajid Javid asking for clear procedures for handling future outbreaks instead 
of "knee-jerk universal testing or hotel quarantine."
The letter also called for an end to banning flights and closing borders in case a new variant starts spreading.
IAG's stock fell almost 3% at the close of Jan. 21 trading.
(Market Chatter news is derived from conversations with market professionals globally. This information is believed 
to be from reliable sources but may include rumor and speculation. Accuracy is not guaranteed.)
Price (GBP): £157.80, Change: £-4.76, Percent Change: -2.93%
Load-Date: January 24, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Expects To Return to Profitability in 2023, Fly 165 Million Passengers, CEO Says
Ryanair Expects To Return to Profitability in 2023, Fly 165 Million 
Passengers, CEO Says
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
January 24, 2022 Monday 5:07 PM EST
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 106 words
Body
 Ryanair (RY4C.IR) will return to profitability if it is able to fly 165 million passengers in the fiscal year ending in 
March 2023, Reuters reported Monday, citing Chief Executive Officer Michael O'Leary in an interview with Cinco 
Dias.
O'Leary told the Spanish newspaper he expects occupancy on the airline's jets to reach between 90% and 95% this 
summer. Ryanair is profitable when occupancy reaches 80%, O'Leary was quoted as saying.
In Ryanair's current fiscal year ending in March, the company is on track to fly 150 million passengers and trim 
losses to between 100 million euros ($113 million) and 200 million euros, O'Leary said.
Load-Date: January 24, 2022
End of Document
Boost for airlines as COVID testing for arrivals set to be scrapped
Boost for airlines as COVID testing for arrivals set to be scrapped
Newstex Blogs 
Proactive Investors
January 24, 2022 Monday 4:06 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 498 words
Byline: Proactiveinvestors
Body
Jan 24, 2022( Proactive Investors: http://www.proactiveinvestors.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Boris Johnson announced that Coronavirus (COVID-19) testing for fully vaccinated people arriving in the country is 
set to be scrapped in what is a boost for the airline industry. 
Campaigning from airlines and falling Omicron cases are behind the easing of the travel testing rules, with Plan B 
restrictions also set to be scrapped altogether in England from Thursday. "Although we have to be cautious, we are 
now moving through the Omicron wave, and you can see the figures are starting to get better,' said Johnson. Since 
the outbreak of the Omicron variant, many of the low-cost carriers (LCC), such as easyJet, saw the amountof 
passengers on flights fall in December following some months of recovering numbers. Ryanair was forced to slash 
its profit guidance last month after it forecasted a fall in traffic in both December and January due to COVID-19. 
Shares in LCCs fell again, though this was more likely to due to the sell everything mentality on a terrible day for the 
market overall. Wizz Air shares are down 4%, with easyJet down nearly 5% in afternoon trading. Current passenger 
numbers at Heathrow are still less than half of pre-pandemic levels, with December seeing just over 3mln 
passengers, though today's news left the boss of easyJet optimistic that a busy summer is ahead. "We commend 
the government for removing all testing. easyJet plans to return to near 2019 levels of flying this summer and so we 
can't wait to welcome our customers back onboard." Johan Lundgren, easyJet chief executive said to Sky News. 
The confirmed date for the rule change has yet to be announced, though the Travel Secretary is set to confirm the 
change later. 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
Boost for airlines as COVID testing for arrivals set to be scrapped
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 24, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair announces largest ever Dublin schedule
Ryanair announces largest ever Dublin schedule
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
January 23, 2022
Copyright 2022 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 892 words
Body
Ryanair, has announced its largest-ever summer schedule from Dublin Airport, with 120 destinations and over 900 
weekly flights available for its Irish customers this summer. This record-breaking schedule includes fantastic sun 
getaways to Spain, Portugal, Italy, including Sardinia & Sicily as well as exciting destinations in the Greek islands, 
Croatia, and regional France. Ryanair will also increase its investment with the basing of a 33rd aircraft at Dublin 
Airport this summer, representing a further $100m investment and bringing its total investment at Dublin Airport to 
$3.3bn. Ryanair also confirmed today that it will create 30 direct jobs as a result of this additional aircraft based in 
Dublin.
With an additional 22 routes compared with Summer 2019 and over 900 flights departing to over 120 destinations 
every week, this increased connectivity will deliver much-needed inbound tourism while also giving Irish 
holidaymakers an abundance of travel choices to top European destinations like Spain, Italy, Greece, Croatia, and 
Portugal.
After two years of stop\start ineffective travel restrictions, the daa has finally been given the tools to incentivise 
travel with its Traffic Recovery Support Scheme (TRSS) which was recommended by the Aviation Task Force in 
their report of July 2020.
This investment by Ryanair in its largest-ever Dublin schedule is a direct result of the recently launched Traffic 
Recovery Scheme by the daa. With many airlines cutting capacity and routes this summer, Ireland must lower 
access costs as it competes with regions and airports in other EU countries for a diminished pool of airline carriers 
in Europe which will shrink total short-haul seats in Europe by up to 15% this summer. Ryanair is the only airline in 
Europe adding capacity in significant volume with the delivery of 67 new Gamechanger Aircraft (delivering -40% 
noise emissions, -16% fuel emissions, +4% seats) before the start of summer 2022. If Ireland is to hold on to this 
capacity and connectivity then the TRSS scheme must at a minimum be extended by the Government into the 
winter '22/23 season to ensure that Irish inbound tourism, particularly post-summer, secures the capacity, 
connectivity, and tourists which are vital to the growth of the Irish economy.
To celebrate this exciting announcement, Ryanair has launched a limited-time seat sale with fares available from 
just (EURO)29.99 for travel until the end of June 2022 and if your plans change so can your booking, with our zero-
change fee offer. These fares are sure to be snapped up quickly, so make sure to log onto Ryanair.com before 
midnight Sunday, 23 January, and make up for the lost summers of 2020 and 2021 with a well-deserved summer 
getaway.
Ryanair announces largest ever Dublin schedule
Ryanair DAC's CEO, Eddie Wilson, said: "We are pleased to announce our largest ever flight schedule at Dublin 
Airport this summer. This extensive programme will see Ryanair operate over 900 weekly flights to over 120 
destinations, giving inbound tourism a much-needed boost while also giving Irish consumers the widest choice of 
great destinations this summer.
After two years of stop\start ineffective travel restrictions, the daa has finally been given the tools to incentivise 
travel with its Traffic Recovery Support Scheme (TRSS) which was recommended by the Aviation Task Force to the 
Government in their report of July 2020. This scheme gives Ryanair the confidence to invest in our largest ever 
summer schedule and the largest number of based aircraft at Dublin Airport. The daa TRSS scheme will ensure 
airport charges are competitively priced vs. other EU countries this summer, and Ryanair has responded by 
launching its largest-ever investment in aircraft, connections, and jobs at Dublin Airport. With many airlines cutting 
routes and jobs, it is important that Ireland's airport charges remain competitive vs. other EU countries and regions 
so that this investment can be maintained in this period of recovery and it is vital that this Traffic Recovery Scheme 
is extended into winter '22/23 to keep that investment and connectivity in Ireland.
To celebrate today's announcement of our largest ever summer schedule of over 120 routes to the beaches of 
Spain, Portugal, Italy, and its regions including Sardinia and Sicily, Croatia, France, Cyprus, and the Greek islands, 
we have launched a seat sale with fares from just (EURO)29.99 for travel until the end of June 2022, which must be 
booked by midnight Sunday, 23 January, and if your plans change so can your booking, with our zero change fee 
offer. With airfares likely to increase this summer due to reduced industry capacity, we encourage all customers to 
book early and scoop up these lower fares on Ryanair.com."
daa's CEO, Dalton Philips, said: "Government funding announced in Budget 2022 has allowed daa to offer 
additional attractive incentives to our airline partners to rebuild international connectivity from Dublin Airport and this 
investment by Ryanair for the busy summer season ahead is testament to that."
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: January 25, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Purchased by Barclays PLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Purchased by Barclays PLC
American Banking and Market News
January 23, 2022 Sunday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 715 words
Body
Ryanair Barclays PLC increased its position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 51.8% during 
the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent Form 13F filing with the SEC. The fund owned 51,024 
shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 17,410 shares during the quarter. 
Barclays PLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $5,616,000 as of its most recent filing with the SEC.  
Other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently made changes to their positions in the 
company. Baillie Gifford & Co. boosted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 2.5% in the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & 
Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,186,170,000 after purchasing 
an additional 264,133 shares during the last quarter.  Capital International Investors boosted its holdings in shares 
of  Ryanair by 3.1% in the 2nd quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares during the 
last quarter.  FMR LLC boosted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 1.4% in the 2nd quarter. FMR LLC now owns 
6,298,681 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $681,580,000 after purchasing an additional 
87,015 shares during the last quarter.  Lazard Asset Management LLC boosted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 
6.3% in the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares during the last quarter.  
Finally, William Blair Investment Management LLC boosted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 14.3% in the 2nd 
quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $243,862,000 after purchasing an additional 281,774 shares during the last quarter. Hedge funds 
and other institutional investors own  43.59% of the company's stock.  
A number of equities analysts have weighed in on the stock. Barclays  reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. JPMorgan Chase & Co. lifted their target price on shares of 
Ryanair to  21.00 ($23.86) in a report on Friday. Liberum Capital upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to 
a "buy" rating in a report on Wednesday. Morgan Stanley  restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Sanford C. Bernstein lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. Five investment analysts have rated the 
stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a buy rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat, 
Ryanair currently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $104.87. 
Ryanair stock  opened at $113.44 on Friday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 
and a quick ratio of 1.34. The firm's fifty day moving average price is $106.25 and its 200 day moving average price 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Purchased by Barclays PLC
is $108.98. The company has a market capitalization of $25.71 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.23 and a beta 
of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-month high of $127.25.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation company 
reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The firm had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. 
Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%.  Analysts forecast that  
Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: What is a bull market?  
Load-Date: January 23, 2022
End of Document
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Raises Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Price Target to €21.00
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Raises Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Price Target to 
€21.00
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
January 23, 2022 Sunday 9:20 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 848 words
Body
Jan 23, 2022( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) had its price objective boosted by JPMorgan Chase & Co.[1] to €21.00 ($23.86) in a 
research report issued on Friday, The Fly[2] reports. 
Other analysts have also recently issued reports about the stock. Sanford C. Bernstein cut shares of Ryanair from 
an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. Barclays reiterated an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Morgan Stanley 
reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Oddo Bhf 
lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, 
November 15th. Finally, Liberum Capital upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a 
research report on Wednesday. Five analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued a buy 
rating to the company. According to data from MarketBeat, the company presently has a consensus rating of "Buy" 
and a consensus price target of $104.87. 
Shares of RYAAY stock[3] opened at $113.44 on Friday. Ryanair has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month 
high of $127.25. The stock has a market cap of $25.71 billion, a P/E ratio of -32.23 and a beta of 1.58. The 
company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The company has a 50 
day simple moving average of $106.25 and a two-hundred day simple moving average of $108.98.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair 
had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The business had revenue of 
$2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion. As a group, equities analysts 
forecast that Ryanair will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current year.  
A number of hedge funds have recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. Assetmark Inc. lifted its 
position in Ryanair by 133.6% during the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $30,000 after purchasing an additional 155 shares during the last quarter. Advisory 
Services Network LLC bought a new position in Ryanair during the second quarter valued at $46,000. JFS Wealth 
Advisors LLC bought a new position in Ryanair during the third quarter valued at $47,000. Rockefeller Capital 
Management L.P. lifted its position in Ryanair by 532.2% during the second quarter. Rockefeller Capital 
Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after purchasing 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Raises Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Price Target to €21.00
an additional 463 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. bought a new 
position in Ryanair during the third quarter valued at $91,000. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.59% 
of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Why is the Consumer Price Index (CPI) important?[4] 
http://www.thefly.com 
 [ 
1]: 
http://o1.qnsr.com/cgi/r?;n=203;c=1649873;s=7273;x=7936;f=201801021148170;u=j;z=TIMESTAMP;src=639762; [ 
2]: 
http://www.thefly.com/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-consumer-price-index/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 23, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) PT Raised to €21.00 at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) PT Raised to €21.00 at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
January 23, 2022 Sunday 9:05 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 853 words
Body
Jan 23, 2022( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) had its target price upped by equities research analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co.[1] 
to €21.00 ($23.86) in a research report issued to clients and investors on Friday, The Fly[2] reports. 
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of other research reports. Morgan Stanley restated an "overweight" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Liberum Capital upgraded shares of Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Wednesday. Barclays restated an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Wolfe Research lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "peer perform" rating in a report on Wednesday, January 12th. Finally, Sanford C. Bernstein lowered 
shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. 
Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned a buy rating to the 
company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair presently has an average rating of "Buy" and an 
average price target of $104.87. 
Shares of Ryanair stock[3] opened at $113.44 on Friday. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 
1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The company has a market capitalization of $25.71 billion, a PE ratio of -
32.23 and a beta of 1.58. The stock's fifty day simple moving average is $106.25 and its 200 day simple moving 
average is $108.98. Ryanair has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of $127.25.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 
by ($0.64). The company had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. Analysts predict 
that Ryanair will post -1.42 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
A number of large investors have recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. Assetmark Inc. boosted its 
holdings in Ryanair by 133.6% in the 3rd quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $30,000 after purchasing an additional 155 shares during the period. Advisory Services 
Network LLC purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at $46,000. JFS Wealth 
Advisors LLC purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at $47,000. Rockefeller 
Capital Management L.P. raised its position in shares of Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller 
Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after 
buying an additional 463 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. purchased a 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) PT Raised to €21.00 at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at $91,000. 43.59% of the stock is owned by hedge 
funds and other institutional investors.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Growth and Income Funds[4] 
http://www.thefly.com 
 [ 
1]: 
http://o1.qnsr.com/cgi/r?;n=203;c=1649873;s=7273;x=7936;f=201801021148170;u=j;z=TIMESTAMP;src=639762; [ 
2]: 
http://www.thefly.com/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-are-benefits-of-growth-and-income-fund/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 23, 2022
End of Document
After Belarus Downed Ryanair to Grab Pratasevich SDNY Indictments of Officials at Large
After Belarus Downed Ryanair to Grab Pratasevich SDNY Indictments of 
Officials at Large
Newstex Blogs 
InnerCityPress
January 23, 2022 Sunday 1:05 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1193 words
Byline: Inner City Press
Body
Jan 23, 2022( InnerCityPress: http://www.innercitypress.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 By 
Matthew 
Russell 
Lee,Patreon[1]Video[2]Song[3] 
BBC[4]-Guardian 
UK[5]-Honduras[6]-CJR[7]-
PFT[8]http://thesource.com/2019/09/19/6ix9ines-testimony-jim-jones/ 
UN GATE, Jan 20 - Right after dissident blogger Pratasevich was grabbed off a Ryan Air flight forced to land in 
Belarus, many including the US spoke. 
 But for more than a full day, nothing from Antonio Guterres, the UN Secretary General who rarely takes questions 
and even had the Press which asked him about the mass killings in Cameroonthrown out[9]of the UN. Alerthere[10]; 
Belarus Blues songhere.[11] 
 On January 20, 2022 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York which Inner City Press covers 
daily, banned from the UN for its questions, this: "the filing of a one-count indictment charging LEONID 
MIKALAEVICH CHURO, the Director General of Belaeronavigatsia Republican Unitary Air Navigation Services 
Enterprise ('Belaeronavigatsia'), the Belarusian state air navigation authority; OLEG KAZYUCHITS, the Deputy 
Director General of Belaeronavigatsia; and two officers of the Belarusian state security services, ANDREY 
ANATOLIEVICH LNU and FNU LNU, with conspiracy to commit aircraft piracy for engineering the diversion of 
Ryanair Flight 4978 (the 'Flight')—which was carrying four U.S. nationals and more than 100 other passengers on 
board—while it was in flight over Belarus on May 23, 2021, for the purpose of arresting a dissident Belarusian 
journalist who was on board the Flight. The case is assigned to U.S. District Judge Paul A. Engelmayer." 
 But they remain at large. Guess who is NOT coming to Disney World? 
 On December 2 US Antony Blinken said, "In coordination with international allies and partners, today we are taking 
additional measures to raise the cost on Alyaksandr Lukashenka and his regime for their ongoing attacks on 
democracy, human rights, and international norms, and for their brutal repression of Belarusians both inside and 
outside the country. These steps represent our third coordinated action with allies this year and are a further 
consequence of the Belarusian authorities continued flagrant disregard for human rights and Belarus's failure to 
comply with its obligations under international human rights law. Pursuant to Executive Orders 13405 and 14038, 
the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) has identified three aircraft as 
blocked property and designated 32 individuals and entities, including Belarusian state-owned enterprises, 
After Belarus Downed Ryanair to Grab Pratasevich SDNY Indictments of Officials at Large
government officials, and other persons, who support the regime and facilitate its repression. Additionally, OFAC 
has issued a directive prohibiting certain activities involving new debt with a maturity of greater than 90 days issued 
by the Belarusian Ministry of Finance or the Development Bank of the Republic of Belarus." 
 On July 5, the UN was promoting a HRC 47 session by its special rapporteur on Belarus Anais Marin. But just a 
few minutes into her presentation on UNTV to an empty room in Geneva, the webcast went dark. They claim it went 
all of 29 minutes, but after Minute 13, it is silent darkness, seehere[12], and FUNCA Questionhere[13]. This is 
Antonio Guterres' UN - a place of incompetence, unaccountability and censorship. It must change. 
 Now late and hypocritical, given that they have done nothing about Guterresbanning[14]Inner City Press now for 
1099 days amid its questions, this: "The co-chairs of the United Nations Group of Friends for the Protection of 
Journalists - Greece, France and Lithuania - and the undersigned Members of the Group of Friends strongly 
condemn the forced landing of a Ryanair flight in Minsk, Belarus, on May 23, 2021, prompted by Belarusian 
authorities in order to arrest and detain independent journalist Raman Pratasevich and his companion, Sofia 
Sapega... 
 [See seethis[15]andthis[16]at UN.] 
 Signed, Co-chairs of the UN Group of Friends for the Protection of Journalists, Ambassadors, Permanent 
Representatives of Greece, France and Lithuania  
 Annex: Co-signatories members of the Group of Friends (in alphabetical order): Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, 
Costa Rica, Ghana, Latvia, Republic of Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK, USA, Uruguay." 
 The Free UN Coalition for Access (FUNCA) continues. 
 *** 
 Your support means a lot. As little as $5 a month helps keep us going and grants you access to exclusive bonus 
material on our Patreon page.Click here to become a patron.[17] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.patreon.com/MatthewRussellLee 
[ 
2]: 
https://twitter.com/innercitypress/status/1293290982331621377 
[ 
3]: 
https://soundcloud.com/innercitypress/belarusbluesuncensorshipeditionbymatthewrusselllee 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-50417908 [ 5]: https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/25/phoenix-
thoroughbreds-owner-denies-money-laundering-allegations 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.laprensa.hn/inicio/1324671-
410/alexander-ardon-juicio-tony-hernandez-nueva-york [ 7]: https://www.cjr.org/the_profile/reporter-expelled-un.php 
[ 
8]: 
https://pressfreedomtracker.us/all-incidents/independent-journalist-matt-lee-forcibly-removed-un-stripped-
press-credentials/ 
[ 
9]: 
https://pressfreedomtracker.us/all-incidents/independent-journalist-matt-lee-forcibly-
removed-un-stripped-press-credentials/ [ 10]: https://pressfreedomtracker.us/all-incidents/independent-journalist-
matt-lee-forcibly-removed-un-stripped-press-credentials/ 
[ 
11]: 
https://soundcloud.com/innercitypress/belarusbluesuncensorshipeditionbymatthewrusselllee 
[ 
12]: 
https://media.un.org/asset/k1z/k1zychup6q 
[ 
13]: 
https://twitter.com/FUNCA_Questions/status/1412045450132307968 
[ 
14]: 
https://pressfreedomtracker.us/all-
incidents/independent-journalist-matt-lee-forcibly-removed-un-stripped-press-credentials/ 
[ 
15]: 
https://youtu.be/9PSUDXllED4 
[ 
16]: 
https://youtu.be/9wGTrc24YKE 
[ 
17]: 
https://www.patreon.com/MatthewRussellLee 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 22, 2022
After Belarus Downed Ryanair to Grab Pratasevich SDNY Indictments of Officials at Large
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by JPMorgan Chase & 
Co.
Newstex Blogs 
Watchlist News
January 22, 2022 Saturday 11:35 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 989 words
Body
Jan 22, 2022( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was upgraded by equities researchers at JPMorgan Chase & Co.[1] from a 'neutral' 
rating to an 'overweight' rating in a note issued to investors on Thursday, The Fly[2] reports. 
 Several other equities research analysts have also commented on RYAAY. Wolfe Research lowered Ryanair from 
an 'outperform' rating to a 'peer perform' rating in a research note on Wednesday, January 12th. Raymond James 
decreased their price target on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an 'outperform' rating on the stock in a 
research note on Monday, November 29th. Sanford C. Bernstein lowered Ryanair from an 'outperform' rating to a 
'market perform' rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. Morgan Stanley reissued an 'overweight' 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, UBS Group reissued a 'neutral' 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Five equities research analysts have 
rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued a buy rating to the company. According to MarketBeat, 
the company has a consensus rating of 'Buy' and an average target price of $104.87. 
NASDAQ RYAAY[3] opened at $113.44 on Thursday. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 
and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The business's 50 day moving average is $106.25 and its two-hundred day 
moving average is $108.98. Ryanair has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-month high of $127.25. The stock has 
a market capitalization of $25.71 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.23 and a beta of 1.58.  
 Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters' consensus 
estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 
25.41%. The business had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. 
Equities analysts forecast that Ryanair will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Large investors have recently made changes to their positions in the business. Profund Advisors LLC boosted its 
stake in Ryanair by 2.7% in the 2nd quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $486,000 after purchasing an additional 117 shares during the period. First Republic 
Investment Management Inc. raised its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 3.5% during the 3rd quarter. First Republic 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Investment Management Inc. now owns 3,975 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $437,000 
after purchasing an additional 134 shares in the last quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management 
Company LLC raised its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 1.2% during the 2nd quarter. Northwestern Mutual 
Investment Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$1,318,000 after purchasing an additional 144 shares in the last quarter. Assetmark Inc. raised its holdings in 
shares of Ryanair by 133.6% during the 3rd quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $30,000 after purchasing an additional 155 shares in the last quarter. Finally, M&T Bank 
Corp raised its holdings in Ryanair by 5.3% in the 3rd quarter. M&T Bank Corp now owns 3,115 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $343,000 after acquiring an additional 156 shares during the period. 
Institutional investors own 43.59% of the company's stock.  
 Ryanair Company Profile 
 Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
 See Also: Are analyst ratings accurate? 
https://www.marketbeat.com/ratings/#learnmore 
 http://www.thefly.com 
Receive News & Ratings for Ryanair Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[4]. 
 [ 
1]: 
https://o1.qnsr.com/cgi/r?;n=203;c=1649873;s=7273;x=7936;f=201801021148170;u=j;z=TIMESTAMP;src=639762; 
[ 
2]: 
http://www.thefly.com/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY&c=Ryanair 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 22, 2022
End of Document
American Century Companies Inc. Sells 4,016 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
American Century Companies Inc. Sells 4,016 Shares of Ryanair Holdings 
plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 22, 2022 Saturday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 703 words
Body
Ryanair American Century Companies Inc. lowered its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
by 0.5% during the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities & Exchange 
Commission. The fund owned 790,676 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 4,016 shares 
during the quarter. American Century Companies Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $87,022,000 as of its most 
recent SEC filing.  
A number of other large investors also recently modified their holdings of the business. Geode Capital Management 
LLC lifted its position in  Ryanair by 3.0% during the 2nd quarter. Geode Capital Management LLC now owns 
98,369 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $10,644,000 after purchasing an additional 2,890 
shares during the period.  Plaisance Capital LLC acquired a new position in  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued 
at about $2,857,000.  Harbor Investment Advisory LLC lifted its position in  Ryanair by 9.5% during the 3rd quarter. 
Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $245,000 
after purchasing an additional 193 shares during the period.  Lazard Asset Management LLC lifted its position in  
Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares during the 
period.  Finally, Ninety One UK Ltd acquired a new position in  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at about 
$2,414,000. 43.59% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Shares of RYAAY  opened at $113.44 on Friday. The stock has a market capitalization of $25.71 billion, a P/E ratio 
of -32.23 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a twelve month low of $94.68 and a twelve month high of 
$127.25. The company has a 50 day moving average of $106.25 and a 200-day moving average of $108.98. The 
company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). 
The business had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion. 
Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%.  On average, sell-side 
analysts anticipate that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
A number of research analysts have issued reports on RYAAY shares. UBS Group  restated a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. increased their price 
target on shares of Ryanair to  21.00 ($23.86) in a research report on Friday. Liberum Capital upgraded shares of 
American Century Companies Inc. Sells 4,016 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Wednesday. Wolfe Research downgraded 
shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a research report on Wednesday, 
January 12th. Finally, Oddo Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a 
research report on Monday, November 15th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating 
and thirteen have issued  a buy rating to the company's stock. Based on data from MarketBeat.com, the company 
currently has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $104.87. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: What are momentum indicators and what do they show? 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: January 22, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Position Trimmed by American Century Companies Inc.
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Stock Position Trimmed by 
American Century Companies Inc.
American Banking and Market News
January 22, 2022 Saturday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 737 words
Body
Ryanair American Century Companies Inc. cut its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 0.5% 
during the 3rd quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities & Exchange 
Commission. The fund owned 790,676 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 4,016 shares 
during the quarter. American Century Companies Inc. owned about 0.35% of Ryanair worth $87,022,000 at the end 
of the most recent quarter.  
A number of other large investors have also recently modified their holdings of the stock. Profund Advisors LLC 
lifted its position in  Ryanair by 2.7% in the 2nd quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $486,000 after purchasing an additional 117 shares during the last 
quarter.  Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 
1.2% during the 2nd quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,318,000 after buying an additional 144 shares in the last 
quarter.  M&T Bank Corp raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 5.3% during the 3rd quarter. M&T Bank Corp 
now owns 3,115 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $343,000 after buying an additional 156 shares 
in the last quarter.  Private Advisor Group LLC raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 6.9% during the 2nd 
quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC now owns 2,535 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $274,000 
after buying an additional 163 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, Harbor Investment Advisory LLC raised its position 
in shares of  Ryanair by 9.5% during the 3rd quarter. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $245,000 after buying an additional 193 shares in the last quarter. Hedge 
funds and other institutional investors own  43.59% of the company's stock.  
Shares of RYAAY  opened at $113.44 on Friday. The company's 50 day moving average price is $106.25 and its 
200 day moving average price is $108.98. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of 
$127.25. The company has a market capitalization of $25.71 billion, a PE ratio of -32.23 and a beta of 1.58. The 
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation company 
reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The business had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%.  On average, 
equities analysts forecast that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Position Trimmed by American Century Companies Inc.
A number of analysts have commented on the stock. JPMorgan Chase & Co. boosted their price target on shares of 
Ryanair to  21.00 ($23.86) in a research report on Friday. Morgan Stanley  restated an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. UBS Group  reiterated a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Wolfe Research downgraded shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a report on Wednesday, January 12th. Finally, Sanford C. Bernstein 
downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, 
November 8th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned  a buy 
rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat, the stock  has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus 
price target of $104.87. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: What is the LIBOR?  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: January 22, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Upgraded to 'Buy' by Liberum Capital
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Upgraded to 'Buy' by Liberum Capital
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
January 22, 2022 Saturday 1:06 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 912 words
Body
Jan 22, 2022( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgLiberum Capital upgraded shares of Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) from a hold rating to a buy rating in a report released on Wednesday morning, The Fly[1] 
reports. 
Several other research firms have also commented on RYAAY. Morgan Stanley reissued an overweight rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Wolfe Research lowered Ryanair from an outperform 
rating to a peer perform rating in a report on Wednesday, January 12th. Raymond James dropped their price 
objective on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an outperform rating on the stock in a report on Monday, 
November 29th. UBS Group reaffirmed a neutral rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 
28th. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co. reaffirmed a neutral rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, 
October 25th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued a buy rating 
to the stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the stock currently has a consensus rating of Buy and a 
consensus target price of $104.87. 
NASDAQ:RYAAY[2] opened at $113.44 on Wednesday. The firm has a market capitalization of $25.71 billion, a PE 
ratio of -32.23 and a beta of 1.58. The business's fifty day moving average price is $106.25 and its 200 day moving 
average price is $108.98. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 
1.34. Ryanair has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of $127.25.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation company 
reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). The business had revenue 
of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion. Ryanair had a negative net 
margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. As a group, equities analysts anticipate that Ryanair 
will post -1.42 EPS for the current year.  
Several institutional investors and hedge funds have recently made changes to their positions in the company. 
Baillie Gifford & Co. lifted its position in Ryanair by 2.5% in the third quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 
10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,186,170,000 after purchasing an additional 
264,133 shares during the period. Capital International Investors lifted its position in Ryanair by 3.1% in the second 
quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares during the period. FMR LLC lifted its position in 
Ryanair by 1.4% in the second quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $681,580,000 after purchasing an additional 87,015 shares during the period. Lazard Asset 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Upgraded to 'Buy' by Liberum Capital
Management LLC lifted its position in Ryanair by 6.3% in the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now 
owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after purchasing an 
additional 296,366 shares during the period. Finally, Janus Henderson Group PLC lifted its position in Ryanair by 
0.8% in the third quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $325,096,000 after purchasing an additional 23,924 shares during the period. 
Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.59% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD) [3] 
http://www.thefly.com 
 [ 
1]: 
http://www.thefly.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-the-moving-average-convergence-divergence/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 22, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Position Trimmed by American Century Companies Inc.
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Stock Position Trimmed by 
American Century Companies Inc.
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
January 22, 2022 Saturday 2:15 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 987 words
Body
Jan 22, 2022( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 American Century Companies Inc. cut its position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 0.5% during the 
3rd quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The 
fund owned 790,676 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 4,016 shares during the quarter. 
American Century Companies Inc. owned about 0.35% of Ryanair worth $87,022,000 at the end of the most recent 
quarter.  
A number of other large investors have also recently modified their holdings of the stock. Profund Advisors LLC 
lifted its position in Ryanair by 2.7% in the 2nd quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $486,000 after purchasing an additional 117 shares during the last 
quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC raised its position in shares of Ryanair by 
1.2% during the 2nd quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,318,000 after buying an additional 144 shares in the last 
quarter. M&T Bank Corp raised its position in shares of Ryanair by 5.3% during the 3rd quarter. M&T Bank Corp 
now owns 3,115 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $343,000 after buying an additional 156 shares 
in the last quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC raised its position in shares of Ryanair by 6.9% during the 2nd 
quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC now owns 2,535 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $274,000 
after buying an additional 163 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Harbor Investment Advisory LLC raised its position 
in shares of Ryanair by 9.5% during the 3rd quarter. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $245,000 after buying an additional 193 shares in the last quarter. Hedge 
funds and other institutional investors own 43.59% of the company's stock.  
Shares of RYAAY[1] opened at $113.44 on Friday. The company's 50 day moving average price is $106.25 and its 
200 day moving average price is $108.98. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of 
$127.25. The company has a market capitalization of $25.71 billion, a PE ratio of -32.23 and a beta of 1.58. The 
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation company 
reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The business had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Position Trimmed by American Century Companies Inc.
billion. Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. On average, 
equities analysts forecast that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
A number of analysts have commented on the stock. JPMorgan Chase & Co. boosted their price target on shares of 
Ryanair to €21.00 ($23.86) in a research report on Friday. Morgan Stanley restated an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. UBS Group reiterated a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Wolfe Research downgraded shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a report on Wednesday, January 12th. Finally, Sanford C. Bernstein 
downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, 
November 8th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned a buy 
rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat, the stock has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus 
price target of $104.87. 
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: What is the LIBOR? [2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/how-libor-
rate-is-calculated/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 22, 2022
End of Document
American Century Companies Inc. Sells 4,016 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
American Century Companies Inc. Sells 4,016 Shares of Ryanair Holdings 
plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
January 22, 2022 Saturday 2:11 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 957 words
Body
Jan 22, 2022( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 American Century Companies Inc. lowered its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 0.5% 
during the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities & Exchange 
Commission. The fund owned 790,676 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 4,016 shares 
during the quarter. American Century Companies Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $87,022,000 as of its most 
recent SEC filing.  
A number of other large investors also recently modified their holdings of the business. Geode Capital Management 
LLC lifted its position in Ryanair by 3.0% during the 2nd quarter. Geode Capital Management LLC now owns 
98,369 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $10,644,000 after purchasing an additional 2,890 
shares during the period. Plaisance Capital LLC acquired a new position in Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at 
about $2,857,000. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC lifted its position in Ryanair by 9.5% during the 3rd quarter. 
Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $245,000 
after purchasing an additional 193 shares during the period. Lazard Asset Management LLC lifted its position in 
Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares during the 
period. Finally, Ninety One UK Ltd acquired a new position in Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at about 
$2,414,000. 43.59% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Shares of RYAAY[1] opened at $113.44 on Friday. The stock has a market capitalization of $25.71 billion, a P/E 
ratio of -32.23 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a twelve month low of $94.68 and a twelve month high 
of $127.25. The company has a 50 day moving average of $106.25 and a 200-day moving average of $108.98. The 
company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). 
The business had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion. 
Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. On average, sell-side 
analysts anticipate that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
A number of research analysts have issued reports on RYAAY shares. UBS Group restated a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. increased their price 
American Century Companies Inc. Sells 4,016 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
target on shares of Ryanair to €21.00 ($23.86) in a research report on Friday. Liberum Capital upgraded shares of 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Wednesday. Wolfe Research downgraded 
shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a research report on Wednesday, 
January 12th. Finally, Oddo Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a 
research report on Monday, November 15th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating 
and thirteen have issued a buy rating to the company's stock. Based on data from MarketBeat.com, the company 
currently has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $104.87. 
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: What are momentum indicators and what do they show?[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-are-
momentum-indicators-and-what-do-they-show/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 22, 2022
End of Document
Belarusians charged with piracy for forcing dissident's flight to land WO R L D | WEEK IN REVIEW|
Belarusians charged with piracy for forcing dissident's flight to land; WO R 
L D | WEEK IN REVIEW|
Financial Times (London, England)
January 22, 2022 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 107 words
Body
The US charged four Belarusian government officials with aircraft piracy for forcing a Ryanair flight bound for 
Lithuania to land in Minsk last year so that they could arrest a leading opposition activist.
Authorities said the officials had conspired to use a fake bomb threat to divert flight FR4978, which was carrying 
more than 100 passengers, including dissident Roman Protasevich.
The indictment refocuses attention on a controversy that sparked global uproar and led to sanctions against 
Belarus, where strongman president Alexander Lukashenko has cracked down on independent journalists and 
opposition activists to maintain his grip on power.
Load-Date: January 21, 2022
End of Document
Belarusians charged with piracy for forcing dissident's flight to land WO R L D | WEEK IN REVIEW|
Belarusians charged with piracy for forcing dissident's flight to land; WO R 
L D | WEEK IN REVIEW|
Financial Times (London, England)
January 22, 2022 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 107 words
Body
The US charged four Belarusian government officials with aircraft piracy for forcing a Ryanair flight bound for 
Lithuania to land in Minsk last year so that they could arrest a leading opposition activist.
Authorities said the officials had conspired to use a fake bomb threat to divert flight FR4978, which was carrying 
more than 100 passengers, including dissident Roman Protasevich.
The indictment refocuses attention on a controversy that sparked global uproar and led to sanctions against 
Belarus, where strongman president Alexander Lukashenko has cracked down on independent journalists and 
opposition activists to maintain his grip on power.
Load-Date: January 21, 2022
End of Document
Belarusians charged with piracy for forcing dissident's flight to land WO R L D | WEEK IN REVIEW|
Belarusians charged with piracy for forcing dissident's flight to land; WO R 
L D | WEEK IN REVIEW|
Financial Times (London, England)
January 22, 2022 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 107 words
Body
The US charged four Belarusian government officials with aircraft piracy for forcing a Ryanair flight bound for 
Lithuania to land in Minsk last year so that they could arrest a leading opposition activist.
Authorities said the officials had conspired to use a fake bomb threat to divert flight FR4978, which was carrying 
more than 100 passengers, including dissident Roman Protasevich.
The indictment refocuses attention on a controversy that sparked global uproar and led to sanctions against 
Belarus, where strongman president Alexander Lukashenko has cracked down on independent journalists and 
opposition activists to maintain his grip on power.
Load-Date: January 21, 2022
End of Document
Belarusians charged with piracy for forcing dissident's flight to land; WO R L D | WEEK IN REVIEW|
Belarusians charged with piracy for forcing dissident's flight to land; WO R 
L D | WEEK IN REVIEW|
Financial Times (London, England)
January 22, 2022 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 107 words
Body
The US charged four Belarusian government officials with aircraft piracy for forcing a Ryanair flight bound for 
Lithuania to land in Minsk last year so that they could arrest a leading opposition activist.
Authorities said the officials had conspired to use a fake bomb threat to divert flight FR4978, which was carrying 
more than 100 passengers, including dissident Roman Protasevich.
The indictment refocuses attention on a controversy that sparked global uproar and led to sanctions against 
Belarus, where strongman president Alexander Lukashenko has cracked down on independent journalists and 
opposition activists to maintain his grip on power.
Load-Date: January 21, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Short Interest Down 20.3% in December
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Short Interest Down 20.3% in 
December
Newstex Blogs 
Watchlist News
January 21, 2022 Friday 7:30 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1006 words
Body
Jan 21, 2022( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was the recipient of a significant decline in short interest in December. As 
of December 31st, there was short interest totalling 652,100 shares, a decline of 20.3% from the December 15th 
total of 818,600 shares. Based on an average daily volume of 357,900 shares, the days-to-cover ratio is currently 
1.8 days.  
 Several institutional investors and hedge funds have recently bought and sold shares of the company. Profund 
Advisors LLC lifted its position in shares of Ryanair by 2.7% during the second quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now 
owns 4,488 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $486,000 after purchasing an additional 117 
shares in the last quarter. First Republic Investment Management Inc. lifted its position in Ryanair by 3.5% during 
the third quarter. First Republic Investment Management Inc. now owns 3,975 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $437,000 after purchasing an additional 134 shares during the last quarter. 
Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC lifted its position in Ryanair by 1.2% during the 
second quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $1,318,000 after purchasing an additional 144 shares during the last 
quarter. Assetmark Inc. lifted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 133.6% in the 3rd quarter. Assetmark Inc. now 
owns 271 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $30,000 after acquiring an additional 155 shares 
during the last quarter. Finally, M&T Bank Corp increased its stake in shares of Ryanair by 5.3% in the third quarter. 
M&T Bank Corp now owns 3,115 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $343,000 after buying an 
additional 156 shares during the period. Institutional investors own 43.59% of the company's stock.  
RYAAY[1] traded down $1.04 during trading on Friday, reaching $114.06. 7,422 shares of the company's stock 
were exchanged, compared to its average volume of 360,127. The company's fifty day moving average price is 
$106.26 and its 200-day moving average price is $108.97. The firm has a market capitalization of $25.85 billion, a 
PE ratio of -32.70 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair has a fifty-two week low of $94.68 and a fifty-two week high of 
$127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34.  
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Short Interest Down 20.3% in December
 Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). 
Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The firm had revenue of 
$2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. Research analysts forecast that Ryanair 
will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Several equities research analysts have weighed in on RYAAY shares. Oddo Bhf downgraded Ryanair from an 
'outperform' rating to a 'neutral' rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Wolfe Research downgraded Ryanair 
from an 'outperform' rating to a 'peer perform' rating in a research note on Wednesday, January 12th. JPMorgan 
Chase & Co. increased their price objective on Ryanair to €21.00 ($23.86) in a research report on Friday. Raymond 
James reduced their price target on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an 'outperform' rating for the 
company in a report on Monday, November 29th. Finally, Liberum Capital raised Ryanair from a 'hold' rating to a 
'buy' rating in a report on Wednesday. Five analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued 
a buy rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat, the stock currently has a consensus rating of 'Buy' 
and a consensus price target of $104.87. 
 Ryanair Company Profile 
 Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
 Featured Story: Bond[2] 
Receive News & Ratings for Ryanair Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[3]. 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/options/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/risk-of-owning-bonds/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-
basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY&c=Ryanair 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 21, 2022
End of Document
Morocco remains on Ryanair 's summer 2022 schedule
Morocco remains on Ryanair's summer 2022 schedule
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
January 21, 2022
Copyright 2022 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 330 words
Body
Ryanair (FR, Dublin Int'l) has scheduled Marrakech and a new service to Agadir on its summer 2022 timetable from 
Dublin Int'l, contradicting a report by Maghreb Intelligence that the Irish budget carrier intends to withdraw from 
Morocco indefinitely from May.
The online news magazine cited unnamed sources saying Ryanair was fed-up with successive and "unjustified" 
closures of Moroccan airspace as a result of COVID-19 which were hampering its flight operations to the North 
African country.
Ryanair was not immediately available for comment.
However, its summer 2022 flight schedule from Dublin announced on January 20 includes Marrakech, as well as a 
new route to Agadir. The two Moroccan routes are amongst 120 destinations and more than 900 weekly flights 
operated by Ryanair this summer from Dublin.
The Irish carrier in mid-December suspended its flights to Morocco until February 1, following the Moroccan 
authorities' decision to close its skies to all international flights until the end of January to prevent the spread of the 
Omicron variant.
In November, Ryanair had announced it would open a new base in Agadir and station two aircraft there, signifying 
its "commitment to Morocco" and "its ability to rebuild the Moroccan tourism industry". It willd operate 30, routes, 
including 20 new ones, from Agadir to Europe.
Earlier, Ryanair had accused the Portuguese Ministry of Infrastructure and the country's civil aviation authority 
(Autoridade Nacional da Aviação Civil - ANAC) of blocking it from opening three new routes from Lisbon to 
Morocco, which had resulted in the cancellation of several flights from October 31, 2021.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Morocco remains on Ryanair 's summer 2022 schedule
Load-Date: January 25, 2022
End of Document
US Charges Belarus Officials With Air Piracy Over Ryanair Flight Diversion
US Charges Belarus Officials With Air Piracy Over Ryanair Flight Diversion
Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
January 21, 2022 Friday 12:45 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 723 words
Body
Jan 20, 2022( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 The US Justice department charged four Belarus officials with air piracy Thursday for last year's forced diversion of 
a Ryanair flight in order to arrest a dissident on board. 
Two top officials of the state air navigation authority and two security officials were accused of conspiracy to commit 
aircraft piracy for allegedly taking part in a fake bomb scare scheme to force the aircraft to land in Minsk on May 23, 
2021, so that the Belarusian government could seize opposition campaigner Roman Protasevich. 
The charges, filed in federal court in new York, said Ryanair Flight 4978 from Athens to Vilnius had been carrying 
more than 100 passengers, including four US citizens, when Belarus authorities concocted the scheme to force it to 
land. 
Two of the four charged, Leonid Mikalaevich Churo and Oleg Kazyuchits, are director general and deputy director 
general, respectively, of the state aviation authority Belaeronavigatsia. 
Two others from the state security services, their names not fully known to the FBI, were also charged. 
"The FBI identified a detailed operation that subjected passengers from many countries, including the US, to the 
realities of terroristic threats," said FBI Assistant Director Michael Driscoll. 
 "Not only is what took place a reckless violation of US law, it's extremely dangerous to the safety of everyone who 
flies in an airplane," he said. 
"The next pilot who gets a distress call from a tower may doubt the authenticity of the emergency -- which puts lives 
at risk." 
 The United States has charged four Belarus officials with air piracy over the diversion of a Ryanair flight in May 
2021 in order to arrest a dissident. Photo: AFP / PETRAS MALUKAS  
The diversion operation was led by state security services and succeeded in having Protasevich, 26, a journalist 
with the Nexta opposition media, and his girlfriend Sofia Sapega, a law student at the European Humanities 
University in Lithuania, arrested at a Minsk airport. 
Both were placed under house arrest to face various charges. 
According to the US indictment, Churo and the security officials communicated the ostensible bomb threat to traffic 
officials at Minsk Air Control Center even before the Ryanair flight took off from Athens, demanding it divert to 
Minsk. 
US Charges Belarus Officials With Air Piracy Over Ryanair Flight Diversion
They waited until the plane entered Belarus air space to alert the aircraft to the purported bomb threat, in order to 
force it to land in Minsk. 
Churo's deputy Kazyuchits then sought to have the incident record falsified to hide the fabricated bomb threat and 
the involvement of security officials, according to the indictment. 
The four, who remain at large in Belarus, all face possible life in prison if they are brought to justice in the United 
States. 
The incident sparked international outrage and has brought punitive sanctions from Europe, Canada, Britain and 
the United States. 
The International Civil Aviation Organization on Monday said it had completed its investigation but would only reveal 
the conclusions at the end of this month. 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) PT Raised to  21.00
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) PT Raised to  21.00
American Banking and Market News
January 21, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 581 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) had its price target raised by JPMorgan Chase & Co.   from  16.40 ($18.64) to  
21.00 ($23.86) in a research report issued on Friday, The Fly  reports. 
RYAAY has been the topic of several other research reports. Liberum Capital raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to 
a "buy" rating in a research note on Wednesday. Morgan Stanley  reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Oddo Bhf lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a research note on Monday, November 15th. Barclays  reissued an "overweight" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Raymond James decreased their target price on 
Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on the stock in a research note on Monday, 
November 29th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a buy rating 
to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair presently has an average rating of "Buy" 
and an average price target of $104.87. 
Shares of NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $113.13 on Friday. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 
1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The business has a fifty day moving average of $106.26 and a two-hundred 
day moving average of $108.97. The stock has a market cap of $25.64 billion, a P/E ratio of -32.70 and a beta of 
1.58. Ryanair has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week high of $127.25.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation company 
reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of 
$1.80 by ($0.64). The company had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations 
of $2.34 billion. Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%.  On 
average, equities analysts anticipate that  Ryanair will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current year.  
Hedge funds have recently modified their holdings of the stock. Assetmark Inc. raised its holdings in  Ryanair by 
133.6% during the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$30,000 after purchasing an additional 155 shares during the last quarter.  Advisory Services Network LLC acquired 
a new position in shares of  Ryanair in the second quarter worth $46,000.  JFS Wealth Advisors LLC acquired a 
new position in shares of  Ryanair in the third quarter worth $47,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. raised 
its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 532.2% in the second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 
550 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the 
last quarter.  Finally, Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. acquired a new position in shares of  Ryanair in the 
third quarter worth $91,000. 43.59% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) PT Raised to  21.00
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Market Capitalization 
Load-Date: January 21, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Upgraded to Overweight at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Upgraded to Overweight at JPMorgan Chase & 
Co.
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
January 21, 2022 Friday 2:15 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 946 words
Body
Jan 21, 2022( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgJPMorgan Chase & Co.[1] upgraded shares of 
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) from a neutral rating to an overweight rating in a report released on Thursday morning, 
The Fly[2] reports. 
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of other reports. Oddo Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an 
outperform rating to a neutral rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Raymond James decreased 
their target price on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an outperform rating for the company in a research 
report on Monday, November 29th. Morgan Stanley reissued an overweight rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an outperform rating to a 
market perform rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Finally, Wolfe Research cut Ryanair from an 
outperform rating to a peer perform rating in a research report on Wednesday, January 12th. Five equities research 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued a buy rating to the company. According to 
data from MarketBeat.com, the stock has a consensus rating of Buy and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Shares of RYAAY[3] opened at $115.10 on Thursday. Ryanair has a twelve month low of $94.68 and a twelve 
month high of $127.25. The firm's fifty day simple moving average is $106.26 and its 200-day simple moving 
average is $108.97. The firm has a market capitalization of $26.08 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.70 and a 
beta of 1.58. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate 
of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The 
firm had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. On average, 
analysts predict that Ryanair will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Institutional investors have recently bought and sold shares of the business. Profund Advisors LLC lifted its holdings 
in shares of Ryanair by 2.7% in the 2nd quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $486,000 after buying an additional 117 shares during the period. First Republic 
Investment Management Inc. lifted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 3.5% in the 3rd quarter. First Republic 
Investment Management Inc. now owns 3,975 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $437,000 
after buying an additional 134 shares during the period. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Upgraded to Overweight at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
LLC lifted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 1.2% in the 2nd quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment 
Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,318,000 
after buying an additional 144 shares during the period. Assetmark Inc. lifted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 
133.6% in the 3rd quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$30,000 after buying an additional 155 shares during the period. Finally, M&T Bank Corp lifted its holdings in shares 
of Ryanair by 5.3% in the 3rd quarter. M&T Bank Corp now owns 3,115 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $343,000 after buying an additional 156 shares during the period. 43.59% of the stock is owned by 
institutional investors.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: Balance Sheet[4] 
http://www.thefly.com 
 [ 
1]: 
http://o1.qnsr.com/cgi/r?;n=203;c=1649873;s=7273;x=7936;f=201801021148170;u=j;z=TIMESTAMP;src=639762; [ 
2]: 
http://www.thefly.com/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/how-investors-use-balance-sheet/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 21, 2022
End of Document
U.S. Charges Four Belarusian Officials with 'Aircraft Piracy' for Diverting Ryanair Flight in 2021 Plot to Arrest 
Dissident Journalist
U.S. Charges Four Belarusian Officials with 'Aircraft Piracy' for Diverting 
Ryanair Flight in 2021 Plot to Arrest Dissident Journalist
Newstex Blogs 
Law and Crime
January 21, 2022 Friday 12:20 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1080 words
Byline: Adam Klasfeld
Body
Jan 21, 2022( Law and Crime: https://lawandcrime.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Secretary General and Executive Director of Reporters Without Borders (RSF) Christophe Deloire poses with a 
photo of detained Belarus journalist Roman Protasevich (C) to protest against the arbitrary detention of Protasevich 
and nearly twenty other reporters during a visit to the Lithuanian-Belarus border in Salcininkai, Lithuania on May 27, 
2021. (Photo by PETRAS MALUKAS / AFP) 
 U.S. grand jury has indicted four Belarusian government official for 'airline piracy' on Thursday in connection with 
last year's brazen plot to divert a Ryanair Flight in order to arrest a dissident journalist[1]. 
 On Sunday, May 23, 2021, Belarusian strongman Aleksandr G. Lukashenko reportedly ordered[2] a fighter jet to 
intercept a Ryanair plane heading from Athens, Greece, to Vilnius, Lithuania, while the plane was over Belarusian 
air space. Belarusian air traffic control authorities falsely claimed the more than 100-passenger flight had a bomb 
threat, the indictment says. 
 'There was, in fact, no bomb on board the aircraft,' the indictment, unsealed Thursday, notes. 'Belarusian 
government authorities fabricated the threat as a means to exercise control over the Flight and force it to divert from 
its course toward the original destination of Vilnius, and instead land in Minsk.' 
 There, authorities dissident journalist[3] Roman Protasevich, in what has been called a 'state hijacking.' 
 On Thursday, federal prosecutors from the Southern District of New York charged four Belarusian officials in 
connection with that plot: Leonid Mikalaevich Churo, the director general of Belaeronavigatsia, the country's state 
air navigation authority; Oleg Kazyuchits, the deputy director general of Belaeronavigatsia; and two officers of the 
Belarusian state security services: Andrey Anatolievich Lnu and Fnu Lnu. 
 'Since the dawn of powered flight, countries around the world have cooperated to keep passenger airplanes safe,' 
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Damian Williams wrote in a statement. 'The defendants shattered those standards by 
diverting an airplane to further the improper purpose of repressing dissent and free speech.' 
 All four defendants—based in Belarus, which does not have an extradition treaty with the United States—remain at 
large. 
 Prosecutors note that Belarusian authorities knew Protasevich, whose name is disguised in court papers as 
'Individual-1,' was on that flight. 
U.S. Charges Four Belarusian Officials with 'Aircraft Piracy' for Diverting Ryanair Flight in 2021 Plot to Arrest 
Dissident Journalist
 'Belarusian authorities boarded one of the buses, and asked Individual -1 to come forward and identify himself, 
demonstrating that Belarusian authorities were aware that Individual-1 was on board the Flight,' 'Individual-1 raised 
his hand and was escorted off the bus, where uniformed Belarusian officers separately searched him again on the 
airport tarmac.' 
 The indictment contains extensive details about the alleged bomb threat the prosecutors say the Belarusian 
officials concocted, supposedly seeking an already-declared cease fire in fighting between Israel and Hamas. 
 'We, Hamas soldiers, demand that Israel cease fire in the Gaza Strip. We demand that the European Union 
abandon its support for Israel in this war. We know that the participants of Delphi Economic Forum are returning 
home on May 23 via flight FR4978. A bomb has been planted onto this aircraft,' the supposed threat read, 
according to the indictment. 
 But a cease fire already had been reached on May 21, 2021, two days before the email claimed by Belarusian 
authorities, prosecutors note. 
 The FBI noted that the charged conspiracy, beyond implicating the safety and security of dissidents globally, 
makes air travel more perilous. 
 'Not only is what took place a reckless violation of U.S. law, it's extremely dangerous to the safety of everyone who 
flies in an airplane,' the bureau's director Assistant Director Michael J. Driscoll said. 'The next pilot who gets a 
distress call from a tower may doubt the authenticity of the emergency—which puts lives at risk.' 
 Four U.S. citizen were on board the aircraft, which prosecutors noted in charging the airline piracy statute[4], which 
carries a 20-year maximum sentence. 
 Read the indictment, below: 
 u.s._v._leonid_mikalaevich_churo_et_al_indictment (Hosted by DocumentCloud)[5] 
The post U.S. Charges Four Belarusian Officials with 'Aircraft Piracy' for Diverting Ryanair Flight in 2021 Plot to 
Arrest Dissident Journalist[6] first appeared on Law & Crime[7]. 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.mediaite.com/news/whats-happening-with-the-dissident-journalist-in-belarus-and-how-is-putin-
involved/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2021-05-24/plane-carrying-opposition-figure-diverted-to-
belarus/100159524 [ 3]: https://lawandcrime.com/objections-podcast/childhood-friend-of-the-u-s-journalist-detained-
in-myanmar-slams-michael-flynns-despicable-comments-about-military-coup/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/49/46502 [ 5]: https://embed.documentcloud.org/documents/21183047-
us_v_leonid_mikalaevich_churo_et_al_indictment/?embed=1&responsive=1&title=1 
[ 
6]: 
https://lawandcrime.com/high-profile/u-s-charges-four-belarusian-officials-with-aircraft-piracy-for-diverting-ryanair-
flight-in-2021-plot-to-arrest-dissident-journalist/ [ 7]: https://lawandcrime.com 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Upgraded to Overweight at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Upgraded to Overweight at JPMorgan Chase & 
Co.
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
January 21, 2022 Friday 3:06 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 887 words
Body
Jan 21, 2022( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgJPMorgan Chase & Co.[1] upgraded shares of 
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) from a neutral rating to an overweight rating in a research note published on Thursday 
morning, The Fly[2] reports. 
A number of other equities analysts have also commented on RYAAY. Wolfe Research lowered Ryanair from an 
outperform rating to a peer perform rating in a research note on Wednesday, January 12th. Barclays reaffirmed an 
overweight rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Raymond James lowered 
their price objective on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an outperform rating for the company in a 
research note on Monday, November 29th. Liberum Capital raised Ryanair from a hold rating to a buy rating in a 
research note on Wednesday. Finally, Morgan Stanley reaffirmed an overweight rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Five analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have 
given a buy rating to the stock. According to data from MarketBeat, Ryanair presently has an average rating of Buy 
and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
NASDAQ RYAAY[3] opened at $115.10 on Thursday. The firm has a market cap of $26.08 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of -32.70 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a 
debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The business has a 50-day moving average price of $106.26 and a 200-day moving 
average price of $108.97. Ryanair has a twelve month low of $94.68 and a twelve month high of $127.25.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The business had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. Research analysts 
expect that Ryanair will post -1.42 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
Several hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently bought and sold shares of the company. Geode 
Capital Management LLC lifted its stake in Ryanair by 3.0% in the second quarter. Geode Capital Management LLC 
now owns 98,369 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $10,644,000 after acquiring an additional 
2,890 shares during the period. Plaisance Capital LLC purchased a new stake in Ryanair in the second quarter 
worth about $2,857,000. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC lifted its stake in Ryanair by 9.5% in the third quarter. 
Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $245,000 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Upgraded to Overweight at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
after acquiring an additional 193 shares during the period. Lazard Asset Management LLC lifted its stake in Ryanair 
by 6.3% in the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $541,264,000 after acquiring an additional 296,366 shares during the period. Finally, Ninety 
One UK Ltd purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the second quarter valued at about $2,414,000. 
Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 43.59% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: How can investors invest in the Euro STOXX 50 Index?[4] 
http://www.thefly.com 
 [ 
1]: 
http://o1.qnsr.com/cgi/r?;n=203;c=1649873;s=7273;x=7936;f=201801021148170;u=j;z=TIMESTAMP;src=639762; [ 
2]: 
http://www.thefly.com/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/market-indexes/SX5E/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 21, 2022
End of Document
U.S. charges 4 Belarus officials with air piracy in journalist's arrest
U.S. charges 4 Belarus officials with air piracy in journalist's arrest
Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 21, 2022 Friday 1:26 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 608 words
Byline: Shawna Chen
Body
Jan 21, 2022( Axios: https://link.axios.com/join/am-signup?source=aci Delivered by Newstex)  
 The Justice Department on Thursday charged four Belarusian government officials with conspiracy to commit 
aircraft piracy as part of an operation to arrest a dissident Belarusian journalist. 
Why it matters: Prosecutors say the officials fabricated a bomb threat aboard a Ryanair flight[1] carrying the 
journalist Raman Pratasevich last May, forcing it to land in Minsk, Belarus instead. 
Pratasevich, an activist who has criticized the Belarusian government, is one of hundreds of political prisoners held 
by the Lukashenko regime. What they're saying: "Since the dawn of powered flight, countries around the world have 
cooperated to keep passenger airplanes safe," U.S. Attorney Damian Williams said in a statement[2]."The 
defendants shattered those standards by diverting an airplane to further the improper purpose of repressing dissent 
and free speech." "We are committed to holding accountable these central participants in a shocking conspiracy to 
commit aircraft piracy that not only violated international norms and U.S. criminal law, but also potentially 
endangered the lives of four U.S. citizens and scores of other innocent passengers on board." The defendants 
include Leonid Mikalaevich Churo and Oleg Kazyuchits, who run the Belarusian state air navigation authority, as 
well as two state security agents. The big picture: Pratasevich faces allegations of fomenting mass unrest in 
protests[3] against Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko's election to a sixth term, which the U.S. and the 
international community have condemned as rigged. The 26-year-old is still awaiting trial in an unknown location six 
months after his arrest, according to Reporters Without Borders[4] (RSF). Worth noting: RSF has referred his case 
to the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention in a bid to formally recognize his detention as arbitrary under 
international law. 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.axios.com/belarus-ryanair-flight-hijack-ccfec459-2767-4288-bd2c-9ad035a87572.html 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.justice.gov/usao-sdny/pr/belarusian-government-officials-charged-aircraft-piracy-diverting-ryanair-flight-
4978 [ 3]: https://www.axios.com/belarus-protests-election-933b5fa4-c2fa-4132-b10d-568e542393a6.html [ 4]: 
https://rsf.org/en/news/six-months-after-raman-pratasevichs-arrest-extremism-charge-increasingly-used-against-
belarusian 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
U.S. charges 4 Belarus officials with air piracy in journalist's arrest
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
" Belarusian Government Officials Charged With Aircraft Piracy for Diverting Flight to Arrest Dissident 
Journalist"
"Belarusian Government Officials Charged With Aircraft Piracy for Diverting 
Flight to Arrest Dissident Journalist"
Newstex Blogs 
The Volokh Conspiracy
January 21, 2022 Friday 11:06 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 2391 words
Byline: Eugene Volokh
Body
Jan 21, 2022( The Volokh Conspiracy: http://reason.com/volokh Delivered by Newstex)  
 I quote the DoJ press release[1]; you can also read the Indictment here (starting at p. 5[2]); the last name Lnu, of 
course, is a old Slavic root[3], doubtless cognate with "лён," meaning linen or flax. 
 Belarusian Government Officials Charged with Aircraft Piracy for Diverting Ryanair Flight 4978 to Arrest Dissident 
Journalist in May 2021 
 Senior Belarusian Officials Conspired to Use False Bomb Threat to Unlawfully Divert Passenger Flight Carrying 
American Citizens in Order to Arrest Belarusian Dissident 
 A federal grand jury in New York returned an indictment today charging four Belarusian state officials with 
conspiracy to commit aircraft piracy. 
 According to court documents, Leonid Mikalaevich Churo, Oleg Kazyuchits, Andrey Anatolievich Lnu and Fnu Lnu, 
all of Belarus, allegedly engineered the diversion of Ryanair Flight 4978 (the Flight) - which was carrying four U.S. 
nationals and more than 100 other passengers on board - while it was in flight on May 23, 2021, to arrest a 
dissident Belarusian journalist who was on board. 
 "Since the dawn of powered flight, countries around the world have cooperated to keep passenger airplanes safe," 
said U.S. Attorney Damian Williams for the Southern District of New York. "The defendants shattered those 
standards by diverting an airplane to further the improper purpose of repressing dissent and free speech. Thanks to 
the extraordinary investigative work of a joint team of FBI counterterrorism and counterintelligence investigators, 
today's indictment provides a prompt and public explanation of what actually happened to the Flight. We are 
committed to holding accountable these central participants in a shocking conspiracy to commit aircraft piracy that 
not only violated international norms and U.S. criminal law, but also potentially endangered the lives of four U.S. 
citizens and scores of other innocent passengers on board." 
 "We allege the defendants carried out an elaborate scheme to fake a bomb scare which forced an airplane to make 
an emergency landing in their country so they could arrest a dissident journalist," said Assistant Director Michael J. 
Driscoll of the FBI's New York Field Office. "During the course of our investigation, the FBI identified a detailed 
operation that subjected passengers from many countries, including the U.S., to the realities of terroristic threats. 
Not only is what took place a reckless violation of U.S. law, it's extremely dangerous to the safety of everyone who 
" Belarusian Government Officials Charged With Aircraft Piracy for Diverting Flight to Arrest Dissident 
Journalist"
flies in an airplane. The next pilot who gets a distress call from a tower may doubt the authenticity of the emergency 
- which puts lives at risk. The FBI and our foreign partners will continue to hold perpetrators responsible for actions 
which directly threaten the lives of our US citizens and jeopardize the stability of our national security." 
 Overview of the Plot 
While on its regularly scheduled passenger route between Athens, Greece, and Vilnius, Lithuania, on May 23, 
2021, the Flight was diverted to Minsk, Belarus, by air traffic control authorities in response to a purported threat of 
a bomb on board the aircraft. There was, in fact, no bomb on board the aircraft. Belarusian government authorities 
fabricated the threat as a means to exercise control over the Flight and force it to divert from its course toward the 
original destination of Vilnius, and instead land in Minsk. 
 The purpose of the Belarusian government's plot diverting the Flight to Minsk was so that Belarusian security 
services could arrest a Belarusian journalist and political activist (Individual-1) - who was critical of the Belarusian 
government, living in exile in Lithuania, and wanted by the Belarusian government on allegations of fomenting 
"mass unrest" - as well as Individual-1's girlfriend (Individual-2). The Belarusian government conspiracy to divert the 
Flight was executed by, among others, officers of the Belarusian state security services working in coordination with 
senior officials of the Belarusian state air navigation authority. 
 The Defendants 
 The defendants, all Belarusian government officials and critical participants in this conspiracy, are identified as: 
Leonid Mikalaevich Churo, Oleg Kazyuchits, Andrey Anatolievich Lnu and Fnu Lnu. At all times relevant to the 
indictment, Churo was the Director General of Belaeronavigatsia, the Belarusian state air navigation authority. As 
alleged, Churo personally communicated the false bomb threat to staff at the Minsk air traffic control center before 
the Flight even took off from Athens, and directed the control center to instruct the Flight divert to Minsk in response 
to the purported threat. 
 Kazyuchits was the Deputy Director General of Belaeronavigatsia, and his role in the conspiracy included directing 
Belarusian air traffic authorities to falsify incident reports regarding the diversion of the Flight in order to conceal the 
fabrication of the bomb threat and to omit the role of Belarusian security services in directing the diversion. 
 Andrey Anatolievich Lnu and Fnu Lnu were officers of the Belarusian state security services. Fnu Lnu participated 
with Churo in conveying the false bomb threat to the Minsk air traffic control tower, personally directed the specific 
radio communications from the Minsk tower to coerce the Flight to divert to Minsk, and relayed contemporaneous 
updates on the diversion of the Flight and the progress of the plot to Andrey Anatolievich Lnu, who was Fnu Lnu's 
superior in the Belarusian state security services. 
 The Diversion of the Flight 
 On May 23, 2021, at approximately 6:45 UTC, Churo and Fnu Lnu arrived at the operations room of the Minsk area 
air traffic control center with responsibility for Belarusian airspace. Churo and Fnu Lnu conveyed the purported 
bomb threat to the controllers on duty, even though the Flight had not yet departed Athens. Churo and Fnu Lnu 
specifically crafted the threat to coerce the pilots of the Flight to avoid continuing to their final destination of Vilnius, 
by claiming that the purported bomb would explode if the Flight landed there. 
 In addition, Churo and Fnu Lnu took the telling steps of directing that the Flight be diverted specifically to Minsk, 
and even though the Flight was still in the adjacent airspace of Ukraine, prohibiting the Minsk air traffic control 
center from making any notification to Ukrainian authorities of the purported bomb threat. This helped to ensure that 
the Flight would enter Belarusian airspace, and the plot to obtain and exercise control over the Flight could be 
executed. Fnu Lnu remained in the operations room at the Minsk air traffic control center from the time that he and 
Churo conveyed the purported bomb threat and directed that the Flight divert to Minsk, until shortly before the Flight 
landed in Minsk after being diverted, in order to ensure that the diversion plot was successfully executed. 
 Once the Flight reached Belarusian airspace, Fnu Lnu instructed the senior air traffic controller who was 
responsible for communicating with the Flight to inform the pilots of the purported bomb threat, describe that the 
threat had been sent by email, and make specific statements to ensure the threat seemed credible and to coerce 
the Flight to divert to Minsk. For example, Fnu Lnu directed that the air traffic controller should falsely inform the 
pilots that the threat to the aircraft was a level "red" - the most specific and credible category of threat. Fnu Lnu 
provided updates on the execution of the plot in real time to his superior in the Belarusian security services, Andry 
Antolievich Lnu, at one point expressing concern that the pilots might be stalling for time and the Flight might soon 
leave Belarusian airspace, which would jeopardize the success of their diversion scheme. In response to the false 
" Belarusian Government Officials Charged With Aircraft Piracy for Diverting Flight to Arrest Dissident 
Journalist"
information conveyed as part of the defendants' plot, the pilots of the Flight ultimately declared an emergency and 
diverted to Minsk National Airport, in accordance with the directives from Churo and Fnu Lnu. 
 Once the Flight landed in Minsk, Fnu Lnu left the air traffic control operations room and went to the airport tarmac. 
The Flight was met by Belarusian security services personnel, including individuals dressed in camouflage military-
style uniforms, some of whom were wearing ski masks and carrying visible firearms. Fnu Lnu remained on the 
tarmac supervising the security forces and monitoring the screening of the passengers as they disembarked. 
Belarusian security services personnel then instructed the passengers to board one of several airport passenger 
buses. 
 Belarusian authorities boarded one of the buses and asked Individual-1 to come forward and identify himself, 
demonstrating that Belarusian authorities were aware that Individual-1 was on board the Flight. Individual-1 was 
escorted off the bus, where uniformed Belarusian officers separately searched him again on the airport tarmac. 
Belarusian officers then escorted Individual-1 back onto the bus and traveled with Individual-1 and the rest of the 
passengers to the airport terminal. Once the bus arrived at the terminal, the Flight's passengers were detained in an 
area of the terminal secured by Belarusian security services. Additional Belarusian security officers met Individual-1 
and the officers accompanying him, escorted Individual-1 away from the remaining passengers and detained 
Individual-1. One group of passengers from the Flight, including multiple U.S. nationals and Individual-2, was 
detained in a narrow hallway for approximately three hours at the airport. During that time, Belarusian authorities 
also escorted Individual-2 away from the other passengers and detained Individual-2. The Flight was ultimately 
allowed to depart from Minsk and continue to its original destination of Vilnius later that evening. No bomb was ever 
on the Flight. 
 The Cover-Up 
 Soon after the diversion of the Flight, Belarusian government officials began to cover up what had happened. On or 
about May 24, 2021, the day after the Flight was diverted, Churo appeared at a press conference in Belarus with 
other Belarusian officials to address the Flight's diversion. During the press conference, Churo stated falsely the 
Belarusian authorities had "done everything according to their technology and their job responsibilities" in handling 
the Flight. In reality, Churo knew that he and his co-conspirators had contrived the false bomb threat and had 
directed the Flight to divert to Minsk so that Belarusian security services could arrest Individual-1 and Individual-2. 
To further conceal the defendants' plot, Kazyuchits directed Belarusian air traffic authorities to create false incident 
reports, including by doctoring the reports to misrepresent that the bomb threat was received at approximately the 
same time that the Flight entered Belarusian airspace and omit the fact that Fnu Lnu of the Belarusian security 
services was present in the operations room and directed activity during the Flight's diversion. 
 Churo, Kazyuchits, Andrey Anatolievich Lnu and Fnu Lnu, all of Belarus, are charged with conspiring to commit 
aircraft piracy, which carries a minimum sentence of 20 years and maximum statutory penalty of life. A federal 
district court judge will determine any sentence after considering the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory 
factors. 
 The defendants remain at large. The United States looks forward to working with our foreign partners to bring them 
to justice. 
 This case was jointly investigated by the FBI's New York Field Office, Counterintelligence Division Foreign 
Influence Task Force and the New York Joint Terrorism Task Force, which principally consists of special agents 
from the FBI and detectives from the NYPD; as well as the FBI Legal Attach Offices in Riga, Latvia; Warsaw, 
Poland; Athens, Greece; Kiev, Ukraine; and London; the National Transportation Safety Board; the Justice 
Department's National Security Division Counterterrorism Section and Criminal Division's Human Rights and 
Special Prosecutions Section, and the Office of International Affairs. Poland's Internal Security Agency and the 
Mazowieckie Regional Prosecutor's Office; and Lithuanian authorities provided valuable assistance with this 
investigation. 
 Assistant U.S. Attorneys David W. Denton Jr. and Elinor L. Tarlow for the Southern District of New York are 
prosecuting the case, with assistance from Trial Attorneys Jennifer Burke of the National Security Division's 
Counterterrorism Section, and Jamie Perry and Christian Levesque of the Criminal Division's Human Rights and 
Special Prosecutions Section. 
 An indictment is merely an allegation, and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a 
reasonable doubt in a court of law. 
" Belarusian Government Officials Charged With Aircraft Piracy for Diverting Flight to Arrest Dissident 
Journalist"
 [ 1]: https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/belarusian-government-officials-charged-aircraft-piracy-diverting-ryanair-flight-
4978-arrest 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.justice.gov/opa/press-release/file/1464061/download 
[ 
3]: 
https://reason.com/volokh/2019/11/22/fnu-lnu-no-relation-to-gnu/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 21, 2022
End of Document
WORLD WATCH
WORLD WATCH
Wall Street Journal Abstracts
January 21, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 The New York Times Company: Abstracts All Rights Reserved
Section: A; Pg. 16
Length: 36 words
Byline: JAMES FANELLI
Body
ABSTRACT
Justice Dept charges four Belarusian officials with aircraft piracy for allegedly fabricating terrorist threat to divert 
Ryanair passenger jet in 2021 so that they could arrest dissident Raman Pratasevich (S)
Load-Date: January 22, 2022
End of Document
AIRLINES FLY HIGH Airlines shares soar after Ryanair 's 'sea change' comments
AIRLINES FLY HIGH Airlines shares soar after Ryanair's 'sea change' 
comments
City A.M.
January 21, 2022 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 29 words
Body
THE SHARES of several airlines ended higher yesterday after Ryanair said it had seen a 'sea change' in customer 
confidence following the easing of Covid-19 travel restrictions.
Load-Date: January 21, 2022
End of Document
IAG falls despite JPMorgan prediction of "multi-year recovery" for airlines
IAG falls despite JPMorgan prediction of "multi-year recovery" for airlines
 
Proactive Investors (UK)
January 20, 2022 Thursday 02:13 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Proactive UK Ltd All Rights Reserved
Length: 454 words
Byline: Oliver Haill
Body
British Airways owner International Consolidated Airlines Group (LSE:IAG) shares fell on Thursday morning but 
other travel companies, such as TUI AG (LSE:TUI), were higher on hopes of a rise in holidays this summer.
The latest data on airlines and other activity from the ONS showed that industry troubles have continued, with 
UK daily flights still at half of pre pandemic levels.
"Despite high hopes that mass vaccine roll outs would by now have propelled the airline industry upwards on a 
smooth ride of demand, the latest data shows that turbulence is continuing," said Susannah Streeter, senior 
investment and markets analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown.
Tour operator TUI was climbing on amid reports that it aims to double the number of customer taking holidays in 
Greece next year, exceeding pre-pandemic numbers, a sign of confidence in pent up demand translating into 
bookings.
Over the next one to two years, JPMorgan predicted a "multi-year recovery" for European airlines in a note this 
morning as it expects COVID-19 to "transition from pandemic to endemic status in many parts of the world", ie it will 
remain ever-present "but with a low impact on how we live".
In the near-term, as the new data shows, daily flying activity is "likely to remain volatile" and we do not expect the 
recovery in results or share prices to be linear".
IAG falls despite JPMorgan prediction of "multi-year recovery" for airlines
JPMorgan downgraded IAG however to 'neutral' from 'buy' as it sees a faster recovery for short-haul carrier than 
long-haul such as BA and said "we think companies with stronger balance sheets will outperform those with weaker 
ones", which led to an upgrade for Ryanair Holdings PLC (LSE:RYA) to 'overweight' from 'neutral'.
Indeed, the Irish short-haul specialist is increasingly bullish about the near-term recovery, with Ryanair's Eddie 
Wilson talking of a "sea change" in confidence in an interview with Reuters. 
He said: "I think people's mindset has moved as well in terms of 'I'm traveling', 'I'm going'. They can see the 
summer. They are not in the darkest days of where we were the previous year."
Elsewhere in the travel sector, the lifting of Plan B restrictions by the Prime Minister yesterday and the expectation 
that workers will head back to the office has also been met with a relief rally by Trainline PLC (LSE:TRN) today, 
following gains for the likes of National Express yesterday.
"The company has been severely hit by the exodus of commuters from the railways, and the expectation is that 
online bookings will start clicking back up, although given the hybrid working from home revolution, there is still a 
huge journey ahead to get close to pre-pandemic levels of business," said Streeter. 
JPMorgan reiterated its 'overweight' rating on Wizz Air Holdings PLC (AIM:WIZZ).
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Lifted to "Overweight" at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Lifted to "Overweight" at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
American Banking and Market News
January 20, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 670 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was upgraded by equities research analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  from 
a "neutral" rating to an "overweight" rating in a note issued to investors on Thursday, The Fly  reports. 
A number of other analysts have also weighed in on the stock. UBS Group  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Liberum Capital upgraded shares of Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Wednesday. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded shares of 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. 
Morgan Stanley  reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 
2nd. Finally, Raymond James lowered their price objective on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set 
an "outperform" rating for the company in a research note on Monday, November 29th. Five investment analysts 
have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued  a buy rating to the company's stock. Based on 
data from MarketBeat.com, the company presently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average target price of 
$122.08. 
Shares of Ryanair stock  traded up $0.93 on Thursday, hitting $114.93. 2,055 shares of the company traded hands, 
compared to its average volume of 363,801. The stock has a market capitalization of $26.04 billion, a P/E ratio of -
32.39 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 
1.34. Ryanair has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of $127.25. The business has a 50-day simple 
moving average of $106.30 and a 200 day simple moving average of $108.92.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The company had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%.  Research analysts 
expect that  Ryanair will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current year.  
A number of large investors have recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now 
owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after acquiring an additional 
296,366 shares in the last quarter.  Capital International Investors boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 3.1% 
in the 2nd quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $1,067,172,000 after buying an additional 294,131 shares in the last quarter.  William Blair Investment 
Management LLC boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 14.3% in the 2nd quarter. William Blair Investment 
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Lifted to "Overweight" at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $243,862,000 after 
buying an additional 281,774 shares in the last quarter.  Pendal Group Ltd purchased a new stake in shares of  
Ryanair in the 3rd quarter worth about $30,945,000.  Finally, Baillie Gifford & Co. boosted its position in shares of  
Ryanair by 2.5% in the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $1,186,170,000 after buying an additional 264,133 shares in the last quarter. Institutional 
investors own  43.59% of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: Outperform Rating  
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corp Sells 20,180 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corp Sells 20,180 Shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 20, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 760 words
Body
Ryanair Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corp trimmed its holdings in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 2.1% in the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the SEC. 
The institutional investor  owned 933,844 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 20,180 shares 
during the quarter. Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corp owned 0.41% of Ryanair worth $102,779,000 as of its 
most recent filing with the SEC.  
A number of other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also bought and sold shares of the stock. 
Baillie Gifford & Co. increased its stake in  Ryanair by 2.5% during the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 
10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,186,170,000 after purchasing an additional 
264,133 shares in the last quarter.  Capital International Investors grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 3.1% 
during the 2nd quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $1,067,172,000 after acquiring an additional 294,131 shares in the last quarter.  FMR LLC grew its 
stake in shares of  Ryanair by 1.4% during the 2nd quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $681,580,000 after acquiring an additional 87,015 shares in the last quarter.  
Lazard Asset Management LLC grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after 
acquiring an additional 296,366 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, William Blair Investment Management LLC grew 
its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 7.1% during the 3rd quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 
2,413,675 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $265,662,000 after acquiring an additional 159,922 
shares in the last quarter. 43.59% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
RYAAY  opened at $114.00 on Thursday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a fifty-two week low of $94.68 and a fifty-two 
week high of $127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 
1.34. The company has a market capitalization of $25.83 billion, a P/E ratio of -32.39 and a beta of 1.58. The stock 
has a fifty day moving average of $106.30 and a 200-day moving average of $108.92.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). The 
company had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. Ryanair 
had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%.  On average, equities research 
analysts predict that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corp Sells 20,180 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Several equities analysts have recently weighed in on RYAAY shares. UBS Group  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Wolfe Research cut shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a research note on Wednesday, January 12th. Sanford C. Bernstein 
cut shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on Monday, 
November 8th. Barclays  reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, 
November 2nd. Finally, Raymond James decreased their target price on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 
and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a research note on Monday, November 29th. Five equities 
research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned  a buy rating to the company's 
stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the stock currently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average 
price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: Derivative 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Rating Increased to Overweight at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Rating Increased to Overweight at JPMorgan 
Chase & Co.
American Banking and Market News
January 20, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 695 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was upgraded by equities researchers at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  from a 
"neutral" rating to an "overweight" rating in a report issued on Thursday, The Fly  reports. 
•
Airline Stocks - Top Airline Stocks to Buy Now 
A number of other research analysts also recently weighed in on the stock. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded 
shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, 
November 8th. Oddo Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a 
research report on Monday, November 15th. UBS Group  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Barclays  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Wolfe Research downgraded shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a research report on Wednesday, January 12th. Five analysts have 
rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned  a buy rating to the stock. According to data from 
MarketBeat, the company  has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
Shares of NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $114.00 on Thursday. Ryanair has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 
month high of $127.25. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 
0.96. The company's fifty day simple moving average is $106.30 and its 200 day simple moving average is 
$108.92. The firm has a market cap of $25.83 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.39 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair 
had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The company had revenue of 
$2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion.  Research analysts expect that  Ryanair 
will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Several hedge funds have recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. HighTower Advisors LLC boosted 
its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 15.5% during the 2nd quarter. HighTower Advisors LLC now owns 2,472 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $267,000 after buying an additional 331 shares during the 
period.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd 
quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$58,000 after buying an additional 463 shares during the period.  Citigroup Inc. boosted its holdings in shares of  
Ryanair by 187.8% during the 2nd quarter. Citigroup Inc. now owns 61,714 shares of the transportation company's 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Rating Increased to Overweight at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
stock worth $6,678,000 after buying an additional 40,270 shares during the period.  JustInvest LLC bought a new 
stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter worth about $272,000.  Finally, BlackRock Inc. boosted its 
holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 23.7% during the 2nd quarter. BlackRock Inc. now owns 895,309 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $96,882,000 after buying an additional 171,682 shares during the period. 
43.59% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: What is operating income? 
This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order 
to provide readers with the fastest and most accurate reporting. This story was reviewed by MarketBeat's editorial 
team prior to publication. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Short Interest Update
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Short Interest Update
American Banking and Market News
January 20, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 670 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was the recipient of a large decline in short interest in December. 
As of December 31st, there was short interest totalling 652,100 shares,  a decline of 20.3% from the December 
15th total of 818,600 shares. Based on an average daily volume of 357,900 shares, the short-interest ratio is 
currently 1.8 days.  
A number of brokerages have recently weighed in on RYAAY. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. Wolfe Research 
downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a research note on Wednesday, 
January 12th. Liberum Capital upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on 
Wednesday. Barclays  restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, 
November 2nd. Finally, Oddo Bhf downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a 
research note on Monday, November 15th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating 
and thirteen have assigned  a buy rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat, the company currently 
has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of $122.08. 
A number of institutional investors and hedge funds have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. 
Diversified Trust Co increased its stake in  Ryanair by 1.6% in the fourth quarter. Diversified Trust Co now owns 
39,895 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $4,082,000 after acquiring an additional 618 shares 
during the last quarter.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp increased its stake in  Ryanair by 1.0% in the third quarter. 
Bank of New York Mellon Corp now owns 1,464,054 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$161,134,000 after acquiring an additional 14,166 shares during the last quarter.  Janus Henderson Group PLC 
grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 0.8% during the third quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 
2,953,810 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $325,096,000 after buying an additional 23,924 
shares during the last quarter.  Rehmann Capital Advisory Group bought a new position in shares of  Ryanair 
during the third quarter valued at about $212,000.  Finally, Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. bought a new 
position in shares of  Ryanair during the third quarter valued at about $91,000. 43.59% of the stock is currently 
owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Shares of Ryanair stock  traded up $2.28 during trading on Thursday, hitting $116.28. The stock had a trading 
volume of 4,873 shares, compared to its average volume of 363,801. The firm has a market cap of $26.35 billion, a 
price-to-earnings ratio of -32.87 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of 
$127.25. The business's 50-day moving average is $106.30 and its 200 day moving average is $108.92. The 
company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Short Interest Update
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 
by ($0.64). The firm had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%.  As a group, 
equities analysts expect that  Ryanair will post -1.42 EPS for the current year.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: What is an Initial Public Offering (IPO)? 
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
Lufthansa loses ECJ lawsuit in dispute over airport state aid
Lufthansa loses ECJ lawsuit in dispute over airport state aid
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
January 20, 2022 Thursday 1:46 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 266 words
Dateline: Brussels (dpa) - 
Body
Lufthansa has lost a years-long dispute over millions of euros in state aid for a regional airport in the German state 
of Rhineland-Palatinate.
The European Court of Justice (ECJ) on Thursday rejected a complaint by the German airline regarding the state's 
support for Frankfurt-Hahn Airport.
Among other things, the case concerned a credit line - comparable to an overdraft facility on a current account - 
amounting to 45 million euros (51 million dollars).
In addition, the court decided that Lufthansa must pay the costs of the proceedings for the western German state 
and the European Commission.
The airport received aid from 2009 until 2011, which was given the okay in Brussels in 2014.
Lufthansa had already taken its complaint to the Court of Justice of the European Union but was unsuccessful 
there.
The airline has never flown regularly to the airport. It is critical of the subsidies because low-cost competitor Ryanair 
takes off from Frankfurt-Hahn.
The ECJ ruled that the lower court's ruling had been correct and had rightfully noted that Lufthansa was not 
individually impacted by the aid for the regional airport.
Lufthansa has won - and lost - a number of other lawsuits regarding whether state support for Frankfurt-Hahn 
Airport distorted competition.
Meanwhile, the former military airport filed for insolvency in October 2021.
Lufthansa loses ECJ lawsuit in dispute over airport state aid
In 2017, the Chinese conglomerate HNA acquired 82.5 per cent of the airport from the state of Rhineland-Palatinate 
for around 15 million euros. The remaining 17.5 per cent is still held by the neighbouring state of Hesse, where the 
city of Frankfurt is located.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Rachel More, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
US charges Belarus officials with air piracy over Ryanair flight diversion
US charges Belarus officials with air piracy over Ryanair flight diversion
Newstex Blogs 
Digital Journal
January 20, 2022 Thursday 11:05 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 975 words
Byline: AFP
Body
Jan 20, 2022( Digital Journal: http://www.digitaljournal.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 The US Justice department charged four Belarus officials with air piracy Thursday for last year's forced diversion of 
a Ryanair flight in order to arrest a dissident on board. 
 Two top officials of the state air navigation authority and two security officials were accused of conspiracy to 
commit aircraft piracy for allegedly taking part in a fake bomb scare scheme to force the aircraft to land in Minsk on 
May 23, 2021, so that the Belarusian government could seize opposition campaigner Roman Protasevich. 
 The charges, filed in federal court in new York, said Ryanair Flight 4978 from Athens to Vilnius had been carrying 
more than 100 passengers, including four US citizens, when Belarus authorities concocted the scheme to force it to 
land. 
 Two of the four charged, Leonid Mikalaevich Churo and Oleg Kazyuchits, are director general and deputy director 
general, respectively, of the state aviation authority Belaeronavigatsia. 
 Two others from the state security services, their names not fully known to the FBI, were also charged. 
 'The FBI identified a detailed operation that subjected passengers from many countries, including the US, to the 
realities of terroristic threats,' said FBI Assistant Director Michael Driscoll. 
 'Not only is what took place a reckless violation of US law, it's extremely dangerous to the safety of everyone who 
flies in an airplane,' he said. 
 'The next pilot who gets a distress call from a tower may doubt the authenticity of the emergency — which puts 
lives at risk.' 
 The diversion operation was led by state security services and succeeded in having Protasevich, 26, a journalist 
with the Nexta opposition media, and his girlfriend Sofia Sapega, a law student at the European Humanities 
University in Lithuania, arrested at a Minsk airport. 
 Both were placed under house arrest to face various charges. 
 According to the US indictment, Churo and the security officials communicated the ostensible bomb threat to traffic 
officials at Minsk Air Control Center even before the Ryanair flight took off from Athens, demanding it divert to 
Minsk. 
 They waited until the plane entered Belarus air space to alert the aircraft to the purported bomb threat,in order to 
force it to land in Minsk. 
US charges Belarus officials with air piracy over Ryanair flight diversion
 Churo's deputy Kazyuchits then sought to have the incident record falsified to hide the fabricated bomb threat and 
the involvement of security officials, according to the indictment. 
 The four, who remain at large in Belarus, all face possible life in prison if they are brought to justice in the United 
States. 
 The incident sparked international outrage and has brought punitive sanctions from Europe, Canada, Britain and 
the United States. 
 The International Civil Aviation Organization on Monday said it had completed its investigation but would only 
reveal the conclusions at the end of this month. 
 https://www.addtoany.com/add_to/facebook?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworld%2Fus-
charges-belarus-officials-with-air-piracy-over-ryanair-flight-
diversion%2Farticle&linkname=US%20charges%20Belarus%20officials%20with%20air%20piracy%20over%20Rya
nair%20flight%20diversionhttps://www.addtoany.com/add_to/twitter?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.c
om%2Fworld%2Fus-charges-belarus-officials-with-air-piracy-over-ryanair-flight-
diversion%2Farticle&linkname=US%20charges%20Belarus%20officials%20with%20air%20piracy%20over%20Rya
nair%20flight%20diversionhttps://www.addtoany.com/add_to/linkedin?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.
com%2Fworld%2Fus-charges-belarus-officials-with-air-piracy-over-ryanair-flight-
diversion%2Farticle&linkname=US%20charges%20Belarus%20officials%20with%20air%20piracy%20over%20Rya
nair%20flight%20diversionhttps://www.addtoany.com/add_to/email?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.co
m%2Fworld%2Fus-charges-belarus-officials-with-air-piracy-over-ryanair-flight-
diversion%2Farticle&linkname=US%20charges%20Belarus%20officials%20with%20air%20piracy%20over%20Rya
nair%20flight%20diversionhttps://www.addtoany.com/share#url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworl
d%2Fus-charges-belarus-officials-with-air-piracy-over-ryanair-flight-
diversion%2Farticle&title=US%20charges%20Belarus%20officials%20with%20air%20piracy%20over%20Ryanair%
20flight%20diversion 
The post US charges Belarus officials with air piracy over Ryanair flight diversion[1] appeared first on Digital 
Journal[2]. 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.digitaljournal.com/world/us-charges-belarus-officials-with-air-piracy-over-ryanair-flight-
diversion/article [ 2]: https://www.digitaljournal.com 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
JPMorgan Raises Ryanair To Overweight, Lifts PT
JPMorgan Raises Ryanair To Overweight, Lifts PT
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
January 20, 2022 Thursday 7:35 AM EST
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 66 words
Body
 JPMorgan raised Ryanair Holdings (RY4C.IR) to overweight from a neutral rating on Thursday and raised its price 
target to 21 euros ($23.81).
Ryanair shares were up 2% on Thursday midday.
(MT Newswires covers equity, commodity and economic research from major banks and research firms in North 
America, Asia and Europe. Research providers may contact us here: https://www.mtnewswires.com/contact-us)
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Raised to Buy at Liberum Capital
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Raised to Buy at Liberum Capital
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
January 20, 2022 Thursday 12:06 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 869 words
Body
Jan 20, 2022( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgLiberum Capital upgraded shares of Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) from a hold rating to a buy rating in a report released on Wednesday morning, The Fly[1] 
reports. 
Several other research analysts have also recently weighed in on RYAAY. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an 
outperform rating to a neutral rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. UBS Group reiterated a 
neutral rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Sanford C. Bernstein cut 
Ryanair from an outperform rating to a market perform rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. 
Barclays restated an overweight rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. 
Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co. restated a neutral rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, 
October 25th. Six investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have assigned a buy rating 
to the company. Based on data from MarketBeat.com, the company currently has a consensus rating of Buy and a 
consensus price target of $122.08. 
Shares of Ryanair stock[2] opened at $114.00 on Wednesday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a 
quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. Ryanair has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of $127.25. 
The stock has a 50 day moving average price of $106.30 and a two-hundred day moving average price of $108.92. 
The stock has a market capitalization of $25.83 billion, a PE ratio of -32.39 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The firm had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. 
Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. Research analysts 
forecast that Ryanair will post -1.42 EPS for the current year.  
Several institutional investors and hedge funds have recently bought and sold shares of the company. Diversified 
Trust Co boosted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 1.6% in the 4th quarter. Diversified Trust Co now owns 
39,895 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $4,082,000 after purchasing an additional 618 shares in 
the last quarter. Bank of New York Mellon Corp boosted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 1.0% in the 3rd 
quarter. Bank of New York Mellon Corp now owns 1,464,054 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$161,134,000 after purchasing an additional 14,166 shares in the last quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC 
boosted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 0.8% in the 3rd quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 
2,953,810 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $325,096,000 after purchasing an additional 23,924 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Raised to Buy at Liberum Capital
shares in the last quarter. Rehmann Capital Advisory Group purchased a new stake in Ryanair during the 3rd 
quarter valued at about $212,000. Finally, Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. purchased a new stake in 
Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at about $91,000. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 43.59% 
of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: How to interpret Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD)[3] 
http://www.thefly.com 
 [ 
1]: 
http://www.thefly.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-the-moving-average-convergence-divergence/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Expects Summer Fares To Beat Pre-COVID-19 Levels
Ryanair Expects Summer Fares To Beat Pre-COVID-19 Levels
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
January 20, 2022 Thursday 7:12 AM EST
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 63 words
Body
 Ryanair (RY4C.IR) forecasts average ticket fares to be higher than pre-COVID-19 levels during the summer of 
2022 as short-haul seats are expected to decrease between 10% to 15%, Reuters reported Thursday.
"There are less seats in Europe, so broadly fares will be higher," a senior company executive told Reuters. 
The Irish budget airline's stock gained over 2% on Thursday midday.
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Confident On Summer Operations As COVID-19 Surge, Public Attitude Improve
Ryanair Confident On Summer Operations As COVID-19 Surge, Public 
Attitude Improve
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
January 20, 2022 Thursday 11:33 PM EST
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 92 words
Body
 Ryanair (RY4C.IR) Chief Executive Officer Eddie Wilson said that he is confident in the airline's summer prospects 
as the omicron surge eases and customer confidence in air travel improves, Reuters reported Thursday. 
Wilson noted that travelers are no longer "in the darkest days" of the previous year, though summer bookings 
remain fewer compared with the last few months due to the omicron threat.
The air carrier previously warned of higher summer fares as a result of an expected decline in short-haul seats.
Ryanair rose over 4% on Thursday's close.
Load-Date: January 21, 2022
End of Document
Dublin Airport - January Update
Dublin Airport - January Update
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
January 20, 2022
Copyright 2022 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 126 words
Body
Our January update takes a look at the most recent December traffic figures as well as some full year 2021 
passenger traffic highlights.
We are delighted to also include some new airline and route announcements at Dublin Airport for 2022 as well as 
the breakdown of the 11 new routes that Ryanair have just announced for Summer 2022.
We look forward to a brighter year ahead and a summer packed with opportunity.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: January 25, 2022
End of Document
Belarusian Government Officials Charged with Aircraft Piracy for Diverting Ryanair Flight 4978 to Arrest 
Dissident Journalist in May 2021
Belarusian Government Officials Charged with Aircraft Piracy for Diverting 
Ryanair Flight 4978 to Arrest Dissident Journalist in May 2021
Newstex Blogs 
Justice Department News
January 20, 2022 Thursday 11:06 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 2259 words
Body
Jan 20, 2022( Justice Department News: https://www.justice.gov/justice-news Delivered by Newstex)  
 A federal grand jury in New York returned an indictment today charging four Belarusian state officials with 
conspiracy to commit aircraft piracy. 
According to court documents, Leonid Mikalaevich Churo, Oleg Kazyuchits, Andrey Anatolievich Lnu and Fnu Lnu, 
all of Belarus, allegedly engineered the diversion of Ryanair Flight 4978 (the Flight) - which was carrying four U.S. 
nationals and more than 100 other passengers on board - while it was in flight on May 23, 2021, to arrest a 
dissident Belarusian journalist who was on board. 
'Since the dawn of powered flight, countries around the world have cooperated to keep passenger airplanes safe,' 
said U.S. Attorney Damian Williams for the Southern District of New York. 'The defendants shattered those 
standards by diverting an airplane to further the improper purpose of repressing dissent and free speech. Thanks to 
the extraordinary investigative work of a joint team of FBI counterterrorism and counterintelligence investigators, 
today's indictment provides a prompt and public explanation of what actually happened to the Flight. We are 
committed to holding accountable these central participants in a shocking conspiracy to commit aircraft piracy that 
not only violated international norms and U.S. criminal law, but also potentially endangered the lives of four U.S. 
citizens and scores of other innocent passengers on board.'  
'We allege the defendants carried out an elaborate scheme to fake a bomb scare which forced an airplane to make 
an emergency landing in their country so they could arrest a dissident journalist,' said Assistant Director Michael J. 
Driscoll of the FBI's New York Field Office. 'During the course of our investigation, the FBI identified a detailed 
operation that subjected passengers from many countries, including the U.S., to the realities of terroristic threats. 
Not only is what took place a reckless violation of U.S. law, it's extremely dangerous to the safety of everyone who 
flies in an airplane. The next pilot who gets a distress call from a tower may doubt the authenticity of the emergency 
- which puts lives at risk. The FBI and our foreign partners will continue to hold perpetrators responsible for actions 
which directly threaten the lives of our US citizens and jeopardize the stability of our national security.' 
Overview of the Plot 
Belarusian Government Officials Charged with Aircraft Piracy for Diverting Ryanair Flight 4978 to Arrest 
Dissident Journalist in May 2021
While on its regularly scheduled passenger route between Athens, Greece, and Vilnius, Lithuania, on May 23, 
2021, the Flight was diverted to Minsk, Belarus, by air traffic control authorities in response to a purported threat of 
a bomb on board the aircraft. There was, in fact, no bomb on board the aircraft. Belarusian government authorities 
fabricated the threat as a means to exercise control over the Flight and force it to divert from its course toward the 
original destination of Vilnius, and instead land in Minsk. 
The purpose of the Belarusian government's plot diverting the Flight to Minsk was so that Belarusian security 
services could arrest a Belarusian journalist and political activist (Individual-1) - who was critical of the Belarusian 
government, living in exile in Lithuania, and wanted by the Belarusian government on allegations of fomenting 
'mass unrest' - as well as Individual-1's girlfriend (Individual-2). The Belarusian government conspiracy to divert the 
Flight was executed by, among others, officers of the Belarusian state security services working in coordination with 
senior officials of the Belarusian state air navigation authority. 
The Defendants 
The defendants, all Belarusian government officials and critical participants in this conspiracy, are identified as: 
Leonid Mikalaevich Churo, Oleg Kazyuchits, Andrey Anatolievich Lnu and Fnu Lnu. At all times relevant to the 
indictment, Churo was the Director General of Belaeronavigatsia, the Belarusian state air navigation authority. As 
alleged, Churo personally communicated the false bomb threat to staff at the Minsk air traffic control center before 
the Flight even took off from Athens, and directed the control center to instruct the Flight divert to Minsk in response 
to the purported threat. 
Kazyuchits was the Deputy Director General of Belaeronavigatsia, and his role in the conspiracy included directing 
Belarusian air traffic authorities to falsify incident reports regarding the diversion of the Flight in order to conceal the 
fabrication of the bomb threat and to omit the role of Belarusian security services in directing the diversion. 
Andrey Anatolievich Lnu and Fnu Lnu were officers of the Belarusian state security services. Fnu Lnu participated 
with Churo in conveying the false bomb threat to the Minsk air traffic control tower, personally directed the specific 
radio communications from the Minsk tower to coerce the Flight to divert to Minsk, and relayed contemporaneous 
updates on the diversion of the Flight and the progress of the plot to Andrey Anatolievich Lnu, who was Fnu Lnu's 
superior in the Belarusian state security services.  
The Diversion of the Flight 
On May 23, 2021, at approximately 6:45 UTC, Churo and Fnu Lnu arrived at the operations room of the Minsk area 
air traffic control center with responsibility for Belarusian airspace. Churo and Fnu Lnu conveyed the purported 
bomb threat to the controllers on duty, even though the Flight had not yet departed Athens. Churo and Fnu Lnu 
specifically crafted the threat to coerce the pilots of the Flight to avoid continuing to their final destination of Vilnius, 
by claiming that the purported bomb would explode if the Flight landed there. 
In addition, Churo and Fnu Lnu took the telling steps of directing that the Flight be diverted specifically to Minsk, 
and even though the Flight was still in the adjacent airspace of Ukraine, prohibiting the Minsk air traffic control 
center from making any notification to Ukrainian authorities of the purported bomb threat. This helped to ensure that 
the Flight would enter Belarusian airspace, and the plot to obtain and exercise control over the Flight could be 
executed. Fnu Lnu remained in the operations room at the Minsk air traffic control center from the time that he and 
Churo conveyed the purported bomb threat and directed that the Flight divert to Minsk, until shortly before the Flight 
landed in Minsk after being diverted, in order to ensure that the diversion plot was successfully executed. 
Once the Flight reached Belarusian airspace, Fnu Lnu instructed the senior air traffic controller who was 
responsible for communicating with the Flight to inform the pilots of the purported bomb threat, describe that the 
Belarusian Government Officials Charged with Aircraft Piracy for Diverting Ryanair Flight 4978 to Arrest 
Dissident Journalist in May 2021
threat had been sent by email, and make specific statements to ensure the threat seemed credible and to coerce 
the Flight to divert to Minsk. For example, Fnu Lnu directed that the air traffic controller should falsely inform the 
pilots that the threat to the aircraft was a level 'red' - the most specific and credible category of threat. Fnu Lnu 
provided updates on the execution of the plot in real time to his superior in the Belarusian security services, Andry 
Antolievich Lnu, at one point expressing concern that the pilots might be stalling for time and the Flight might soon 
leave Belarusian airspace, which would jeopardize the success of their diversion scheme. In response to the false 
information conveyed as part of the defendants' plot, the pilots of the Flight ultimately declared an emergency and 
diverted to Minsk National Airport, in accordance with the directives from Churo and Fnu Lnu. 
Once the Flight landed in Minsk, Fnu Lnu left the air traffic control operations room and went to the airport tarmac. 
The Flight was met by Belarusian security services personnel, including individuals dressed in camouflage military-
style uniforms, some of whom were wearing ski masks and carrying visible firearms. Fnu Lnu remained on the 
tarmac supervising the security forces and monitoring the screening of the passengers as they disembarked. 
Belarusian security services personnel then instructed the passengers to board one of several airport passenger 
buses. 
Belarusian authorities boarded one of the buses and asked Individual-1 to come forward and identify himself, 
demonstrating that Belarusian authorities were aware that Individual-1 was on board the Flight. Individual-1 was 
escorted off the bus, where uniformed Belarusian officers separately searched him again on the airport tarmac. 
Belarusian officers then escorted Individual-1 back onto the bus and traveled with Individual-1 and the rest of the 
passengers to the airport terminal. Once the bus arrived at the terminal, the Flight's passengers were detained in an 
area of the terminal secured by Belarusian security services. Additional Belarusian security officers met Individual-1 
and the officers accompanying him, escorted Individual-1 away from the remaining passengers and detained 
Individual-1. One group of passengers from the Flight, including multiple U.S. nationals and Individual-2, was 
detained in a narrow hallway for approximately three hours at the airport. During that time, Belarusian authorities 
also escorted Individual-2 away from the other passengers and detained Individual-2. The Flight was ultimately 
allowed to depart from Minsk and continue to its original destination of Vilnius later that evening. No bomb was ever 
on the Flight. 
The Cover-Up 
Soon after the diversion of the Flight, Belarusian government officials began to cover up what had happened. On or 
about May 24, 2021, the day after the Flight was diverted, Churo appeared at a press conference in Belarus with 
other Belarusian officials to address the Flight's diversion. During the press conference, Churo stated falsely the 
Belarusian authorities had 'done everything according to their technology and their job responsibilities' in handling 
the Flight. In reality, Churo knew that he and his co-conspirators had contrived the false bomb threat and had 
directed the Flight to divert to Minsk so that Belarusian security services could arrest Individual-1 and Individual-2. 
To further conceal the defendants' plot, Kazyuchits directed Belarusian air traffic authorities to create false incident 
reports, including by doctoring the reports to misrepresent that the bomb threat was received at approximately the 
same time that the Flight entered Belarusian airspace and omit the fact that Fnu Lnu of the Belarusian security 
services was present in the operations room and directed activity during the Flight's diversion. 
Churo, Kazyuchits, Andrey Anatolievich Lnu and Fnu Lnu, all of Belarus, are charged with conspiring to commit 
aircraft piracy, which carries a minimum sentence of 20 years and maximum statutory penalty of life. A federal 
district court judge will determine any sentence after considering the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and other statutory 
factors. 
The defendants remain at large. The United States looks forward to working with our foreign partners to bring them 
to justice. 
Belarusian Government Officials Charged with Aircraft Piracy for Diverting Ryanair Flight 4978 to Arrest 
Dissident Journalist in May 2021
This case was jointly investigated by the FBI's New York Field Office, Counterintelligence Division Foreign Influence 
Task Force and the New York Joint Terrorism Task Force, which principally consists of special agents from the FBI 
and detectives from the NYPD; as well as the FBI Legal Attach Offices in Riga, Latvia; Warsaw, Poland; Athens, 
Greece; Kiev, Ukraine; and London; the National Transportation Safety Board; the Justice Department's National 
Security Division Counterterrorism Section and Criminal Division's Human Rights and Special Prosecutions 
Section, and the Office of International Affairs. Poland's Internal Security Agency and the Mazowieckie Regional 
Prosecutor's Office; and Lithuanian authorities provided valuable assistance with this investigation. 
Assistant U.S. Attorneys David W. Denton Jr. and Elinor L. Tarlow for the Southern District of New York are 
prosecuting the case, with assistance from Trial Attorneys Jennifer Burke of the National Security Division's 
Counterterrorism Section, and Jamie Perry and Christian Levesque of the Criminal Division's Human Rights and 
Special Prosecutions Section. 
An indictment is merely an allegation, and all defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a 
reasonable doubt in a court of law. 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by Liberum Capital
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by Liberum Capital
Newstex Blogs 
Watchlist News
January 19, 2022 Wednesday 1:30 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 945 words
Body
Jan 19, 2022( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was upgraded by equities research analysts at Liberum Capital from a 'hold' rating to a 
'buy' rating in a report issued on Wednesday, The Fly[1] reports. 
 Other equities analysts have also issued reports about the company. Oddo Bhf lowered Ryanair from an 
'outperform' rating to a 'neutral' rating in a research note on Monday, November 15th. Raymond James decreased 
their price target on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an 'outperform' rating for the company in a research 
note on Monday, November 29th. UBS Group reissued a 'neutral' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on 
Tuesday, September 28th. Wolfe Research lowered Ryanair from an 'outperform' rating to a 'peer perform' rating in 
a research note on Wednesday, January 12th. Finally, Barclays reissued an 'overweight' rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Six analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and 
twelve have given a buy rating to the stock. According to MarketBeat, the company presently has a consensus 
rating of 'Buy' and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
RYAAY[2] opened at $113.11 on Wednesday. Ryanair has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of 
$127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. The stock 
has a market cap of $25.63 billion, a P/E ratio of -32.13 and a beta of 1.58. The stock's 50 day moving average 
price is $106.44 and its 200 day moving average price is $108.89.  
 Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 
by ($0.64). The firm had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. Equities analysts 
anticipate that Ryanair will post -1.42 EPS for the current year.  
Several large investors have recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
raised its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 6.3% during the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now 
owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after acquiring an additional 
296,366 shares in the last quarter. Capital International Investors raised its holdings in Ryanair by 3.1% during the 
second quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $1,067,172,000 after buying an additional 294,131 shares in the last quarter. William Blair Investment 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by Liberum Capital
Management LLC raised its holdings in Ryanair by 14.3% during the second quarter. William Blair Investment 
Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $243,862,000 after 
buying an additional 281,774 shares in the last quarter. Pendal Group Ltd bought a new position in Ryanair during 
the third quarter valued at about $30,945,000. Finally, Baillie Gifford & Co. raised its holdings in Ryanair by 2.5% 
during the third quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $1,186,170,000 after buying an additional 264,133 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors and 
hedge funds own 43.59% of the company's stock.  
 Ryanair Company Profile 
 Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
 Featured Article: What is a management fee?[3] 
 http://www.thefly.com 
Receive News & Ratings for Ryanair Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[4]. 
 [ 1]: http://www.thefly.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-a-management-fee/ [ 4]: https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-
email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY&c=Ryanair 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 19, 2022
End of Document
Dynamo Internacional Gestao DE Recursos LTDA. Sells 8,700 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
Dynamo Internacional Gestao DE Recursos LTDA. Sells 8,700 Shares of 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 19, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 711 words
Body
Ryanair Dynamo Internacional Gestao DE Recursos LTDA. cut its holdings in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 9.3% during the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the 
Securities & Exchange Commission. The firm owned 85,139 shares of the transportation company's stock after 
selling 8,700 shares during the quarter. Ryanair makes up  about  1.0% of Dynamo Internacional Gestao DE 
Recursos LTDA.'s investment portfolio, making the stock its 14th biggest position. Dynamo Internacional Gestao 
DE Recursos LTDA.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $9,653,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
Other large investors have also bought and sold shares of the company. Connor Clark & Lunn Investment 
Management Ltd. bought a new stake in shares of  Ryanair in the third quarter worth about $1,373,000.  CQS US 
LLC grew its position in  Ryanair by 42.5% in the third quarter. CQS US LLC now owns 117,340 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $12,929,000 after acquiring an additional 34,973 shares in the last quarter.  
William Blair Investment Management LLC grew its position in  Ryanair by 7.1% in the third quarter. William Blair 
Investment Management LLC now owns 2,413,675 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$265,662,000 after acquiring an additional 159,922 shares in the last quarter.  Rafferty Asset Management LLC 
purchased a new position in  Ryanair in the third quarter worth about $266,000.  Finally, Sawtooth Solutions LLC 
grew its position in  Ryanair by 27.8% in the third quarter. Sawtooth Solutions LLC now owns 2,658 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $293,000 after acquiring an additional 578 shares in the last quarter. 43.59% 
of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
RYAAY stock  traded down $0.13 during midday trading on Wednesday, hitting $112.98. The company's stock had 
a trading volume of 3,230 shares, compared to its average volume of 361,460. The company has a quick ratio of 
1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $94.68 
and a 52-week high of $127.25. The firm has a market capitalization of $25.60 billion, a P/E ratio of -32.13 and a 
beta of 1.58. The firm has a 50-day simple moving average of $106.44 and a 200-day simple moving average of 
$108.89.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The business had 
revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion.  On average, sell-
side analysts expect that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Dynamo Internacional Gestao DE Recursos LTDA. Sells 8,700 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
A number of equities analysts recently commented on RYAAY shares. Wolfe Research downgraded shares of 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a research note on Wednesday, January 12th. 
Oddo Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on 
Monday, November 15th. Morgan Stanley  reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note 
on Tuesday, November 2nd. Barclays  reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on 
Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reissued a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research note on Monday, October 25th. Six analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have given 
a buy rating to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair currently has a consensus 
rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.08. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: What is a Reverse Stock Split?  
Load-Date: January 19, 2022
End of Document
Cqs Us LLC Buys 34,973 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Cqs Us LLC Buys 34,973 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 19, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 739 words
Body
Ryanair Cqs Us LLC boosted its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 42.5% during the 3rd quarter, 
according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The 
institutional investor  owned 117,340 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 
34,973 shares during the period. Cqs Us LLC owned 0.05% of Ryanair worth $12,929,000 at the end of the most 
recent reporting period.  
Other large investors also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the company. Baillie Gifford & Co. boosted 
its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 2.5% during the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,186,170,000 after buying an additional 264,133 shares in the 
last quarter.  Capital International Investors raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 3.1% in the 2nd quarter. 
Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares during the last quarter.  FMR LLC raised its position 
in  Ryanair by 1.4% in the 2nd quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $681,580,000 after buying an additional 87,015 shares during the last quarter.  Lazard Asset Management 
LLC raised its position in  Ryanair by 6.3% in the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after buying an additional 296,366 shares during 
the last quarter.  Finally, William Blair Investment Management LLC raised its position in  Ryanair by 7.1% in the 
3rd quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,413,675 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $265,662,000 after buying an additional 159,922 shares during the last quarter. Institutional 
investors and hedge funds own  43.59% of the company's stock.  
RYAAY stock  opened at $113.11 on Wednesday. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 
and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The business's fifty day simple moving average is $106.44 and its two-hundred 
day simple moving average is $108.89. Ryanair Holdings plc has a twelve month low of $94.68 and a twelve month 
high of $127.25. The firm has a market cap of $25.63 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.13 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 by 
($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The company had 
revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion.  Research analysts 
expect that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 EPS for the current year.  
Cqs Us LLC Buys 34,973 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
A number of equities research analysts have issued reports on the company. Raymond James cut their price target 
on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a research note on Monday, 
November 29th. UBS Group  restated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, 
September 28th. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, 
October 25th. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report 
on Monday, November 8th. Finally, Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report 
on Monday, November 15th. Six equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have 
issued  a buy rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat, the stock presently has an average rating of 
"Buy" and a consensus target price of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: Forex 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: January 19, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Upgraded to "Buy" at Liberum Capital
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Upgraded to "Buy" at Liberum Capital
American Banking and Market News
January 19, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 623 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was upgraded by stock analysts at Liberum Capital from a "hold" rating to a 
"buy" rating in a report issued on Wednesday, The Fly  reports. 
Several other equities research analysts have also recently issued reports on RYAAY. UBS Group  restated a 
"neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Oddo Bhf cut shares of 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Sanford 
C. Bernstein lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note 
on Monday, November 8th. Raymond James lowered their target price on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to 
$138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a research note on Monday, November 29th. Finally, 
Wolfe Research lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a research note 
on Wednesday, January 12th. Six investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have 
issued  a buy rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat.com, Ryanair currently has a consensus 
rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of $122.08. 
Shares of NASDAQ RYAAY  opened at $113.11 on Wednesday. The company's fifty day moving average price is 
$106.44 and its 200 day moving average price is $108.89. Ryanair has a 1 year low of $94.68 and a 1 year high of 
$127.25. The company has a market capitalization of $25.63 billion, a PE ratio of -32.13 and a beta of 1.58. The 
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The company had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. 
Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%.  On average, equities 
analysts expect that  Ryanair will post -1.42 EPS for the current year.  
Large investors have recently bought and sold shares of the stock. Geode Capital Management LLC boosted its 
position in shares of  Ryanair by 3.0% during the 2nd quarter. Geode Capital Management LLC now owns 98,369 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $10,644,000 after purchasing an additional 2,890 shares in the 
last quarter.  Plaisance Capital LLC purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter worth 
$2,857,000.  Harbor Investment Advisory LLC boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 9.5% during the 3rd 
quarter. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$245,000 after purchasing an additional 193 shares in the last quarter.  Lazard Asset Management LLC boosted its 
position in shares of  Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Upgraded to "Buy" at Liberum Capital
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares in 
the last quarter.  Finally, Ninety One UK Ltd purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter 
worth $2,414,000. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own  43.59% of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: Gap Down Stocks 
Load-Date: January 19, 2022
End of Document
NS Partners Ltd Sells 3,580 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
NS Partners Ltd Sells 3,580 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 19, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 648 words
Body
Ryanair NS Partners Ltd reduced its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 3.0% during the 3rd 
quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The 
firm owned 117,679 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 3,580 shares during the period. NS 
Partners Ltd owned approximately 0.05% of Ryanair worth $12,952,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
A number of other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also modified their holdings of RYAAY. 
Advisory Services Network LLC acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter worth 
approximately $46,000.  JFS Wealth Advisors LLC acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 3rd 
quarter worth approximately $47,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its stake in  Ryanair by 
532.2% in the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $58,000 after buying an additional 463 shares in the last quarter.  PNC Financial 
Services Group Inc. boosted its stake in  Ryanair by 106.8% in the 3rd quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. 
now owns 1,729 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $192,000 after buying an additional 893 
shares in the last quarter.  Finally, Park Avenue Securities LLC acquired a new stake in  Ryanair in the 3rd quarter 
valued at $223,000. 43.59% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors.  
Shares of NASDAQ RYAAY  traded down $0.17 during midday trading on Wednesday, reaching $112.94. The 
company's stock had a trading volume of 2,338 shares, compared to its average volume of 361,460. Ryanair 
Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-month high of $127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity 
ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. The firm has a 50 day moving average price of 
$106.44 and a 200-day moving average price of $108.89. The stock has a market capitalization of $25.59 billion, a 
P/E ratio of -32.13 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair had a 
negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The firm had revenue of $2.10 billion 
during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion.  On average, equities analysts predict that  
Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 EPS for the current year.  
A number of research firms have commented on RYAAY. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reissued a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. Wolfe Research lowered Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a research note on Wednesday, January 12th. Barclays  restated 
NS Partners Ltd Sells 3,580 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Sanford C. Bernstein 
downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. 
Finally, Oddo Bhf downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday, 
November 15th. Six research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued  a buy rating 
to the company. According to data from MarketBeat, the stock  has an average rating of "Buy" and an average price 
target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: What is the market perform rating? 
Load-Date: January 19, 2022
End of Document
3 Financially Fit Airline Stocks Worth Boarding
3 Financially Fit Airline Stocks Worth Boarding
American Banking and Market News
January 19, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 888 words
Body
The global airline industry suffered its worst year ever in 2020. According to the International Air Transport 
Association (IATA), passenger volumes plunged 60% due to the coronavirus crisis. 
Vaccines and loosened government restrictions put airlines into recovery mode in 2021. Still, passenger volumes 
are expected to have been well below pre-pandemic levels. 
The outlook for the friendly skies is a bit brighter in 2022. Although global air travel is forecast to reach 61% of 2019 
levels, industrywide losses are forecast to be trimmed from $52 billion last year to $12 billion. 
Some airlines  will return to profitability sooner than others on account of their effective cost cutting measures, 
strong balance sheets, and popular route offerings. Here are three airlines that are positioned to take off sooner and 
whose stocks are worth booking a reservation. What is the Best U.S. Airline Stock?
Southwest Airlines (NYSE: LUV ) has long been one of the best run airlines. Its low fares have made it a go-to for 
travelers and its low-cost income statement a go-to for investors. 
In April 2021, Southwest shares climbed past their pre-pandemic level and to within a couple bucks of their $66.99 
split adjusted record high. Now trading in the mid-$40 s, investors have an opportunity to buy a fundamentally 
sound company that is poised to recover faster than peers. 
The world s largest single-aisle plane operator, Southwest serves more than 100 domestic destinations and 10 
international markets. Its focus is the leisure traveler segment  which is known to be the source of heavy pent-up 
demand. As travel conditions improve, expect passengers to flock to Southwest s competitive fares and popular 
getaways as has historically been the case. 
As is typical for the company, the balance sheet is healthy. There is $17 billion in liquidity and a manageable level 
of debt. A return to profitability is expected in 2022 when peers like American Airlines  are forecast to remain in the 
red. Based on analysts forward earnings projections for this year, Southwest Airlines is trading at 25x forward 
earnings. This is a reasonable price to pay for an airline that will fly to the front of the pack as industry conditions 
improve. What is a Good International Airline Stock?
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ: RYAAY ) is an Irish ADR. The airliner s main hubs are Dublin and London but it 
operates from 86 bases and has a presence in more than 200 airports across Europe  and overseas. 
3 Financially Fit Airline Stocks Worth Boarding
Ryanair is considered the low-cost airline of the region, so it can be viewed as the Southwest of Europe. It similarly 
has a strong investment-grade balance sheet that puts it in a position to outperform over the next few years. 
Lately, Ryanair s passenger metrics have been improved but lagging 2019. With more than 80% of Europe s adult 
population vaccinated, December 2021 traffic climbed to 9.5 million and 81% of available capacity was filled. Due to 
Omicron developments, however, management lowered its 2021 traffic forecast to  just under 100 million 
passengers  and said weaker holiday travel will result in a steeper loss. On the bright side, the company is 
expecting to see faster growth in the post-Covid era. 
It is targeting 225 million guests by fiscal 2026, an ambitious but reachable goal. As travel volumes pick up, Ryanair 
s low-cost structure should make it one of the biggest beneficiaries of pent-up demand. Analysts are forecasting a 
sharp return to profitability in fiscal 2023 and smoother air from there. At 17x next year s earnings, Ryanair is one of 
the most attractive ways to play the airline industry recovery.   Is Hawaiian Holdings a Good Airline Stock?
Back at home Hawaiian Holdings (NASDAQ: HA ) is another airline stock worthy of a portfolio position. Although a 
return to profits is not expected until calendar 2023, boarding now while it is trading under $20 looks like a good 
move. 
The company s main Hawaiian Airlines subsidiary is the leading operator of flights to and from the West Coast and 
Hawaii. It also charters flights that run between the Hawaiian Islands. Given where it operates, the airline is heavily 
dependent on Hawaiian tourism. 
The tropical state has been understandably slow to re-open to tourists. Passenger volumes are up considerably 
over 2020 but remain well below those of 2019. Last quarter Hawaiian filled 76% of its available seats and booked 
more than 10-times the revenue it did the year prior, but higher fuel costs weighed on the bottom line. Looking 
ahead to 2022, passenger revenues are expected to be up year-over-year but significantly below pre-pandemic 
levels as tourism continues to get up to speed. 
The good news is that Hawaiian Airlines doesn t have a demand problem and serves one of the most sought after 
leisure destinations . As such, it has been expanding its network to connect more travelers to the islands recently 
launching a non-stop service to and from Austin, Texas. 
Aside from its tropical allure, Hawaiian Airlines is considered one of the most customer-friendly U.S. airlines having 
been named the most on-time airline for 17 straight years. From a financial perspective, the $2 billion in cash and 
minimal debt level has the company in a favorable position to endure more turbulence and emerge one of the 
strongest airlines on the other side of the pandemic. 
Load-Date: January 19, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by Liberum Capital
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by Liberum Capital
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
January 19, 2022 Wednesday 1:11 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 913 words
Body
Jan 19, 2022( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was upgraded by Liberum Capital from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research 
report issued to clients and investors on Wednesday, The Fly[1] reports. 
Other equities analysts have also recently issued research reports about the stock. JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
reissued a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. Morgan Stanley 
reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. UBS Group 
reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Wolfe Research 
cut shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a research note on Wednesday, 
January 12th. Finally, Sanford C. Bernstein cut shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" 
rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. Six analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve 
have given a buy rating to the stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the stock has an average rating of 
"Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Shares of RYAAY stock[2] opened at $113.11 on Wednesday. The firm has a market cap of $25.63 billion, a price-
to-earnings ratio of -32.13 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 
and a current ratio of 1.34. Ryanair has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of $127.25. The firm's 50-day 
simple moving average is $106.44 and its two-hundred day simple moving average is $108.89.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The business had 
revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion. Analysts forecast 
that Ryanair will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current year.  
Large investors have recently made changes to their positions in the company. Baillie Gifford & Co. increased its 
stake in shares of Ryanair by 2.5% in the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $1,186,170,000 after acquiring an additional 264,133 shares during the last 
quarter. Capital International Investors grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 3.1% during the 2nd quarter. 
Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares during the period. FMR LLC grew its holdings in 
shares of Ryanair by 1.4% during the 2nd quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $681,580,000 after purchasing an additional 87,015 shares during the period. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Rating Upgraded by Liberum Capital
Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after 
purchasing an additional 296,366 shares during the period. Finally, Janus Henderson Group PLC grew its holdings 
in shares of Ryanair by 0.8% during the 3rd quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $325,096,000 after purchasing an additional 23,924 shares during the 
period. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 43.59% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: What are high-yield dividend stocks?[3] 
http://www.thefly.com 
 [ 1]: http://www.thefly.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/dividends/high-yield/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 19, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Flight Diverted Over 'Deliberately False' Bomb Threat Claim from Belarus , UN Report Says
Ryanair Flight Diverted Over 'Deliberately False' Bomb Threat Claim from 
Belarus, UN Report Says
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
January 19, 2022 Wednesday 10:25 PM EST
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 162 words
Body
 The forced diversion of a Ryanair (RY4C.IR) flight to Minsk in 2021 was due to a "deliberately false" bomb threat 
claim from the Belarusian government, Reuters reported Thursday, citing a report from the United Nations.
The probe conducted by the UN's International Civil Aviation Organization found that Belarus air traffic controllers 
failed to relay crucial information about the alleged "code red" situation to the Ryanair pilots. The UN fact-finding 
team also called out Belarus for not cooperating properly, with records not "preserved" despite various ongoing 
investigations.
The plane was carrying dissident Belarus journalist Roman Protasevich who was arrested following the diversion. 
As a result of the grounding, the EU imposed travel bans and other sanctions on Belarusian individuals and 
companies.
Members of ICAO are due to meet on Jan. 31 to decide on any further actions to be taken following the report's 
findings.
Ryanair lost over 1% on Wednesday's close.
Load-Date: January 19, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Share Price Crosses Below 50-Day Moving Average of $15.01
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Share Price Crosses Below 50-Day Moving Average of 
$15.01
American Banking and Market News
January 19, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 197 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (LON:RYA) crossed below its fifty day moving average during trading on Tuesday . 
The stock has a fifty day moving average of GBX 15.01 ($0.20) and traded as low as GBX 13.80 ($0.19). Ryanair 
shares last traded at GBX 14.42 ($0.20), with a volume of 1,030,831 shares trading hands.  
The business has a 50 day simple moving average of GBX 15.01 and a two-hundred day simple moving average of 
GBX 15.92. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.14 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 116.44. The 
stock has a market cap of £163.33 million and a price-to-earnings ratio of -24.94.  
Ryanair Company Profile (LON:RYA ) 
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Germany, and Other European countries. It is also involved in the provision of various 
ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and internet-related services; in-flight sale of beverages, 
food, and merchandise; and marketing accommodation and hotel services, car hire, and travel insurance through its 
Website and mobile app. 
Recommended Story: What causes a recession? 
Load-Date: January 19, 2022
End of Document
European ADRs Move Lower in Tuesday Trading
European ADRs Move Lower in Tuesday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
January 18, 2022 Tuesday 11:09 AM EST
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 232 words
Body
 American depository receipts of European stocks were trading 1.08% lower at 1,193.98 on the S&P/BNY Mellon 
Europe Select ADR Index on Tuesday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by luxury e-commerce platform MYT Netherlands Parent (MYTE) and 
3D printer company voxeljet (VJET), which rose 5.8% and 2.9%, respectively. They were followed by kidney 
dialysis company Fresenius Medical Care (FMS) and biometrics company IDEX Biometrics (IDBA), which were up 
2.8% and 2.3%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by consumer goods company Unilever (UL) and biotech firm 
BioNTech (BNTX), which fell 11% and 7.1%, respectively. They were followed by telecommunications company 
VEON Ltd. (VEON) and steel and mining company ArcelorMittal (MT), which dropped 5.3% and 5.2%.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by the pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and 
educational publisher Pearson (PSO), which rose 2.6% and 2.5%, respectively. They were followed by 
biopharmaceutical company NuCana (NCNA) and oil and gas company Royal Dutch Shell (RDS.A), which were up 
2.3% and 2.2%.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by Trinity Biotech (TRIB) and biopharmaceutical company Verona 
Pharma (VRNA), which dropped 5.2% and 4%, respectively. They were followed by airline operator Ryanair 
Holdings (RYAAY) and bank holding company Barclays (BCS), which were down 3.6% and 3.1%.
Load-Date: January 18, 2022
End of Document
UN Agency Finishes Report On Flight Diverted To Belarus
UN Agency Finishes Report On Flight Diverted To Belarus
Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
January 18, 2022 Tuesday 1:45 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 297 words
Body
Jan 18, 2022( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 The report about the investigation into a Ryanair flight that was diverted to Belarus last year is complete, the 
International Civil Aviation Organization said Monday, adding that next steps will be set in late January. 
The report details the circumstances around the May 23, 2021 incident in which Belarusian President Alexander 
Lukashenko drew international outrage by sending fighter jets to intercept a Ryanair flight from Athens to Vilnius. 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 17, 2022
End of Document
Croatia Airlines in talks over possible B737 MAX order
Croatia Airlines in talks over possible B737 MAX order
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
January 18, 2022
Copyright 2022 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 336 words
Body
Croatia Airlines (OU, Zagreb) is in talks with Boeing (BOE, Chicago O'Hare) concerning a potential B737 MAX 
order to replace its A320ceo jets, local aviation news site Avioradar.hr has reported.
The manufacturer has since confirmed the talks are ongoing.
Croatia Airlines currently operates five A319-100s, which are 20.4 years old on average, and two A320-200s with 
an average age of 22.2 years. The carrier has four A320-200Ns on order from Airbus but has repeatedly stressed 
that it would not take these aircraft and has been in talks to cancellation them since pre-COVID times. Nonetheless, 
it does plan to add other new aircraft - according to a recent business plan drafted by the Boston Consulting Group 
(BCG), the state-owned carrier would need 12-15 new aircraft over the next five years.
Considering the carrier's existing A320neo order, speculation is rife about the A220 being the favoured choice for its 
future needs, although Embraer E2 jets are also in contention.
Croatia Airlines operated five B737-200s between 1992 and 1999 as its only Boeing aircraft. It currently operates 
six DHC-8-Q400s alongside the A319s and A320s.
The planned fleet renewal forms part of efforts to rejuvenate the struggling airline. Facing growing competition from 
Ryanair (FR, Dublin Int'l), which now has a 17% market share by capacity at Zagreb (compared to Croatia Airlines' 
51%), the Croatian carrier has been looking at other opportunities to expand from other cities in the region. These 
tentative plans include growth at Ljubljana, which remains without a base carrier following the collapse of Adria 
Airways (JP, Ljubljana). However, no firm plans have been announced yet.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: January 25, 2022
Croatia Airlines in talks over possible B737 MAX order
End of Document
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Grows Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Grows Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Watchlist News
January 16, 2022 Sunday 1:30 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 978 words
Body
Jan 16, 2022( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Sawtooth Solutions LLC increased its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 27.8% 
during the third quarter, according to its most recent Form 13F filing with the SEC. The institutional investor owned 
2,658 shares of the transportation company's stock after buying an additional 578 shares during the period. 
Sawtooth Solutions LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $293,000 as of its most recent filing with the SEC.  
 Other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently made changes to their positions in the 
company. Advisory Services Network LLC purchased a new stake in Ryanair during the second quarter worth 
$46,000. JFS Wealth Advisors LLC purchased a new stake in Ryanair during the third quarter worth $47,000. 
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its holdings in Ryanair by 532.2% during the second quarter. 
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $58,000 
after buying an additional 463 shares in the last quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. boosted its holdings in 
Ryanair by 106.8% during the third quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. now owns 1,729 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $192,000 after buying an additional 893 shares in the last quarter. Finally, 
Park Avenue Securities LLC purchased a new position in Ryanair during the third quarter valued at $223,000. 
43.59% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Several equities analysts have issued reports on RYAAY shares. Oddo Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an 
'outperform' rating to a 'neutral' rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Barclays reaffirmed an 'overweight' 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Raymond James decreased their price 
objective on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an 'outperform' rating on the stock in a report on 
Monday, November 29th. UBS Group reaffirmed a 'neutral' rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, 
September 28th. Finally, Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded shares of Ryanair from an 'outperform' rating to a 
'market perform' rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. Six equities research analysts have rated the stock 
with a hold rating and eleven have assigned a buy rating to the company. According to MarketBeat, the stock has 
an average rating of 'Buy' and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Grows Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
 Shares of NASDAQ RYAAY[1] opened at $117.86 on Friday. The firm has a 50-day simple moving average of 
$106.78 and a 200-day simple moving average of $108.80. The stock has a market capitalization of $26.71 billion, 
a price-to-earnings ratio of -33.48 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 
and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of 
$127.25.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters' consensus 
estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 
25.41%. The firm had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. As a 
group, equities research analysts expect that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 EPS for the current year.  
 Ryanair Profile 
 Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
 Read More: News Sentiment [2] 
 Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Receive News & Ratings for Ryanair Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[4]. 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/market-
news-sentiment-in-investing/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY&c=Ryanair 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 16, 2022
End of Document
William Blair Investment Management LLC Boosts Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
William Blair Investment Management LLC Boosts Stake in Ryanair Holdings 
plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 16, 2022 Sunday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 681 words
Body
Ryanair William Blair Investment Management LLC grew its holdings in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 7.1% during the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the 
Securities & Exchange Commission. The firm owned 2,413,675 shares of the transportation company's stock after 
purchasing an additional 159,922 shares during the quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC owned 
approximately 1.07% of Ryanair worth $265,662,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
Several other institutional investors have also modified their holdings of RYAAY. Geode Capital Management LLC 
grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 3.0% during the second quarter. Geode Capital Management LLC now owns 
98,369 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $10,644,000 after acquiring an additional 2,890 
shares in the last quarter.  Plaisance Capital LLC acquired a new position in shares of  Ryanair during the second 
quarter valued at approximately $2,857,000.  Harbor Investment Advisory LLC grew its position in  Ryanair by 9.5% 
in the third quarter. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $245,000 after buying an additional 193 shares during the last quarter.  Lazard Asset Management LLC grew 
its position in  Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares 
of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares in the last 
quarter.  Finally, Ninety One UK Ltd acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at 
$2,414,000. 43.59% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors.  
RYAAY has been the subject of a number of research analyst reports. Barclays  reissued an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Morgan Stanley  restated an "overweight" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reiterated a 
"neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Oddo Bhf lowered shares of 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Finally, Raymond 
James lowered their target price on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for 
the company in a research note on Monday, November 29th. Six analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating 
and eleven have issued  a buy rating to the company's stock. Based on data from MarketBeat.com, the stock 
currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
Shares of Ryanair stock  opened at $117.86 on Friday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 
12 month high of $127.25. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio 
William Blair Investment Management LLC Boosts Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
of 0.96. The business has a fifty day simple moving average of $106.78 and a two-hundred day simple moving 
average of $108.81. The firm has a market capitalization of $26.71 billion, a P/E ratio of -33.48 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of 
$1.80 by ($0.64). The company had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of 
$2.34 billion. Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%.  Analysts 
predict that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 earnings per share for the current year.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: What does the Producer Price Index (PPI) tell investors? 
Load-Date: January 16, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Purchased by William Blair Investment Management LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Purchased by William Blair 
Investment Management LLC
American Banking and Market News
January 16, 2022 Sunday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 686 words
Body
Ryanair William Blair Investment Management LLC increased its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 7.1% in the 3rd quarter, according to its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC). The institutional investor  owned 2,413,675 shares of the transportation company's 
stock after purchasing an additional 159,922 shares during the quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC 
owned 1.07% of Ryanair worth $265,662,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
Other institutional investors and hedge funds also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the company. 
Rafferty Asset Management LLC purchased a new stake in  Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at approximately 
$266,000.  Sawtooth Solutions LLC grew its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 27.8% in the 3rd quarter. Sawtooth 
Solutions LLC now owns 2,658 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $293,000 after acquiring an 
additional 578 shares during the period.  Barclays PLC grew its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 51.8% in the 3rd 
quarter. Barclays PLC now owns 51,024 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $5,616,000 after 
acquiring an additional 17,410 shares during the period.  BlackRock Inc. lifted its stake in  Ryanair by 26.5% in the 
3rd quarter. BlackRock Inc. now owns 1,132,424 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$124,636,000 after buying an additional 237,115 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, Boston Private Wealth LLC 
lifted its stake in  Ryanair by 12.7% in the 3rd quarter. Boston Private Wealth LLC now owns 2,863 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $314,000 after buying an additional 323 shares in the last quarter. 43.59% 
of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
RYAAY has been the topic of several research reports. UBS Group  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. Raymond James cut 
their price target on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on the stock in a report on 
Monday, November 29th. Barclays  restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on 
Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Oddo Bhf lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" 
rating in a research note on Monday, November 15th. Six analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and 
eleven have assigned  a buy rating to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair 
currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
NASDAQ RYAAY  opened at $117.86 on Friday. The stock has a market cap of $26.71 billion, a PE ratio of -33.48 
and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of $127.25. The stock's 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Purchased by William Blair Investment Management LLC
50 day moving average is $106.78 and its 200 day moving average is $108.81. The company has a current ratio of 
1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters' consensus 
estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 
14.51%. The company had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 
billion.  On average, analysts forecast that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: How the Consumer Price Index (CPI) is calculated?  
Load-Date: January 16, 2022
End of Document
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Buys 578 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Buys 578 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 16, 2022 Sunday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 662 words
Body
Ryanair Sawtooth Solutions LLC raised its holdings in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 27.8% 
during the third quarter, according to its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
The firm owned 2,658 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 578 shares during 
the quarter. Sawtooth Solutions LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $293,000 as of its most recent filing with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  
A number of other hedge funds have also modified their holdings of RYAAY. Advisory Services Network LLC 
bought a new stake in  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at $46,000.  JFS Wealth Advisors LLC bought a new 
stake in  Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at $47,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. raised its 
holdings in  Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the period.  
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. raised its holdings in  Ryanair by 106.8% during the 3rd quarter. PNC Financial 
Services Group Inc. now owns 1,729 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $192,000 after 
acquiring an additional 893 shares during the period.  Finally, Park Avenue Securities LLC bought a new stake in  
Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at $223,000. 43.59% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors 
and hedge funds.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $117.86 on Friday. The company's 50 day moving average price is $106.78 and its 
200-day moving average price is $108.80. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of 
$127.25. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The stock 
has a market cap of $26.71 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -33.48 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair 
had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The firm had revenue of $2.10 
billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion.  As a group, sell-side analysts anticipate 
that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
Several research analysts have recently weighed in on RYAAY shares. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reaffirmed a 
"neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Raymond James decreased their price 
target on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on the stock in a report on 
Monday, November 29th. Barclays  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, 
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Buys 578 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
November 2nd. Oddo Bhf cut shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on 
Monday, November 15th. Finally, UBS Group  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report 
on Tuesday, September 28th. Six investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have 
given a buy rating to the company. According to data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair currently has an average 
rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: How does quantitative easing work? 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: January 16, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Position Raised by William Blair Investment Management LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Stock Position Raised by William 
Blair Investment Management LLC
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
January 16, 2022 Sunday 4:11 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 983 words
Body
Jan 16, 2022( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 William Blair Investment Management LLC increased its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 7.1% 
in the 3rd quarter, HoldingsChannel[1] reports. The fund owned 2,413,675 shares of the transportation company's 
stock after acquiring an additional 159,922 shares during the period. William Blair Investment Management LLC's 
holdings in Ryanair were worth $265,662,000 at the end of the most recent reporting period.  
A number of other hedge funds have also added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. Baillie Gifford & Co. 
increased its stake in shares of Ryanair by 2.5% during the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,186,170,000 after purchasing an additional 264,133 shares 
during the last quarter. Capital International Investors increased its position in Ryanair by 3.1% in the 2nd quarter. 
Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$1,067,172,000 after acquiring an additional 294,131 shares in the last quarter. FMR LLC grew its position in 
shares of Ryanair by 1.4% during the 2nd quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $681,580,000 after buying an additional 87,015 shares during the period. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC grew its holdings in Ryanair by 6.3% during the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after purchasing an 
additional 296,366 shares during the period. Finally, Bank of New York Mellon Corp lifted its stake in Ryanair by 
1.5% in the second quarter. Bank of New York Mellon Corp now owns 1,449,888 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $156,892,000 after buying an additional 21,560 shares in the last quarter. 43.59% of the 
stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
RYAAY stock[2] opened at $117.86 on Friday. The firm has a market capitalization of $26.71 billion, a PE ratio of -
33.48 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $94.68 and a 1 year high of $127.25. The 
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. The business has a 50 
day simple moving average of $106.78 and a 200-day simple moving average of $108.81.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of 
$1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The 
company had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. On 
average, equities research analysts expect that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 EPS for the current year.  
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Position Raised by William Blair Investment Management LLC
RYAAY has been the topic of several research reports. Barclays reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Morgan Stanley reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Wolfe Research cut Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "peer perform" rating in a report on Wednesday. Finally, Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Monday, November 15th. Six analysts have rated the stock with a 
hold rating and eleven have assigned a buy rating to the company. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the 
stock presently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD) [3] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-the-moving-average-convergence-divergence/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 16, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Acquired by William Blair Investment Management LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Acquired by William Blair 
Investment Management LLC
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
January 16, 2022 Sunday 4:10 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 955 words
Body
Jan 16, 2022( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 William Blair Investment Management LLC boosted its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 7.1% 
in the third quarter, Holdings Channel[1] reports. The institutional investor owned 2,413,675 shares of the 
transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 159,922 shares during the quarter. William Blair 
Investment Management LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $265,662,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
Several other institutional investors and hedge funds have also made changes to their positions in RYAAY. Rafferty 
Asset Management LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair in the 3rd quarter valued at $266,000. Sawtooth Solutions 
LLC grew its holdings in Ryanair by 27.8% during the third quarter. Sawtooth Solutions LLC now owns 2,658 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $293,000 after purchasing an additional 578 shares during the 
period. Barclays PLC lifted its stake in Ryanair by 51.8% in the third quarter. Barclays PLC now owns 51,024 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $5,616,000 after buying an additional 17,410 shares in the 
last quarter. BlackRock Inc. lifted its stake in Ryanair by 26.5% in the third quarter. BlackRock Inc. now owns 
1,132,424 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $124,636,000 after buying an additional 237,115 
shares in the last quarter. Finally, Boston Private Wealth LLC increased its holdings in Ryanair by 12.7% during the 
third quarter. Boston Private Wealth LLC now owns 2,863 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$314,000 after buying an additional 323 shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors own 43.59% of the 
company's stock.  
Ryanair stock[2] opened at $117.86 on Friday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $94.68 and a 1-year high of 
$127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. The stock 
has a market cap of $26.71 billion, a PE ratio of -33.48 and a beta of 1.58. The stock's fifty day moving average is 
$106.78 and its two-hundred day moving average is $108.81.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus 
estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). The company had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' 
expectations of $2.34 billion. Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 
25.41%. On average, research analysts expect that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.42 earnings per share for the 
current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Acquired by William Blair Investment Management LLC
Several equities research analysts recently weighed in on the stock. Barclays reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Oddo Bhf lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Raymond James reduced their target price on 
Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a report on Monday, November 
29th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, 
October 25th. Finally, Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a 
research note on Monday, November 8th. Six analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have 
assigned a buy rating to the company. Based on data from MarketBeat.com, the stock presently has a consensus 
rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: How a Back-End Load Mutual Fund Works[3] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 
1]: 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/how-back-end-load-mutual-fund-works/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 16, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Downgraded by Wolfe Research
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Downgraded by Wolfe Research
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
January 16, 2022 Sunday 12:05 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 847 words
Body
Jan 16, 2022( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgWolfe 
Research 
cut 
shares 
of 
Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) from an outperform rating to a peer perform rating in a research report released on Wednesday, 
Analyst Price Targets[1] reports. 
Several other analysts have also recently issued reports on RYAAY. Morgan Stanley reiterated an overweight rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Raymond James reduced their price objective 
on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an outperform rating on the stock in a research note on Monday, 
November 29th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reiterated a buy rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note 
on Friday, September 17th. UBS Group reiterated a neutral rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on 
Tuesday, September 28th. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co. reissued a neutral rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
report on Monday, October 25th. Six investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have 
given a buy rating to the company. Based on data from MarketBeat, Ryanair currently has an average rating of Buy 
and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair stock[2] opened at $117.86 on Wednesday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio 
of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. The company's 50 day simple moving average is $106.78 and its 200 day simple 
moving average is $108.80. Ryanair has a fifty-two week low of $94.68 and a fifty-two week high of $127.25. The 
firm has a market capitalization of $26.71 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -33.48 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 by 
($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The firm had 
revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. As a group, analysts predict 
that Ryanair will post -1.01 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
Several hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. 
Assetmark Inc. lifted its position in Ryanair by 133.6% in the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $30,000 after purchasing an additional 155 shares during the period. 
Advisory Services Network LLC acquired a new stake in Ryanair in the second quarter valued at about $46,000. 
JFS Wealth Advisors LLC acquired a new stake in Ryanair in the third quarter valued at about $47,000. Rockefeller 
Capital Management L.P. lifted its position in Ryanair by 532.2% in the second quarter. Rockefeller Capital 
Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after purchasing 
an additional 463 shares during the period. Finally, Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. acquired a new 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Downgraded by Wolfe Research
stake in Ryanair in the third quarter valued at about $91,000. 43.59% of the stock is currently owned by hedge 
funds and other institutional investors.  
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD) [3] 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-the-moving-average-convergence-divergence/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 16, 2022
End of Document
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Buys 578 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Buys 578 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
January 16, 2022 Sunday 1:11 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 915 words
Body
Jan 16, 2022( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Sawtooth Solutions LLC raised its holdings in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 27.8% during 
the third quarter, according to its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The firm 
owned 2,658 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 578 shares during the 
quarter. Sawtooth Solutions LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $293,000 as of its most recent filing with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  
A number of other hedge funds have also modified their holdings of RYAAY. Advisory Services Network LLC 
bought a new stake in Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at $46,000. JFS Wealth Advisors LLC bought a new 
stake in Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at $47,000. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. raised its holdings 
in Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the period. PNC 
Financial Services Group Inc. raised its holdings in Ryanair by 106.8% during the 3rd quarter. PNC Financial 
Services Group Inc. now owns 1,729 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $192,000 after 
acquiring an additional 893 shares during the period. Finally, Park Avenue Securities LLC bought a new stake in 
Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at $223,000. 43.59% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors 
and hedge funds.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY[1] opened at $117.86 on Friday. The company's 50 day moving average price is $106.78 and its 
200-day moving average price is $108.80. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of 
$127.25. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The stock 
has a market cap of $26.71 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -33.48 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair 
had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The firm had revenue of $2.10 
billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion. As a group, sell-side analysts anticipate 
that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
Several research analysts have recently weighed in on RYAAY shares. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reaffirmed a 
"neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Raymond James decreased their price 
target on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on the stock in a report on 
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Buys 578 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Monday, November 29th. Barclays reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, 
November 2nd. Oddo Bhf cut shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on 
Monday, November 15th. Finally, UBS Group reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report 
on Tuesday, September 28th. Six investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have 
given a buy rating to the company. According to data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair currently has an average 
rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: How does quantitative easing work?[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/what-is-quantitative-easing/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 16, 2022
End of Document
If flying has lost its charm, that's no bad thing
If flying has lost its charm, that's no bad thing
Financial Times (London, England)
January 15, 2022 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 654 words
Byline: Henry Mance
Body
I n the film Don't Look Up, humans decide to ignore a terrifying scientific discovery: a comet is on course to destroy 
Earth. But give the idiots some credit. At least they don't seek to accelerate the speed at which the comet is 
approaching.
That is roughly what the EU's aviation policy is doing. Brussels wants airlines to keep flying planes even when there 
aren't enough passengers to justify them. Lufthansa says that it would like to cancel 18,000 flights in the next three 
months, but can't do so without losing its valuable airport slots. These flights will hold fewer people than the 
average Downing Street work event. The thought of near-empty planes spurting out greenhouse gases should 
make our blood boil.
EU rules normally require airlines to operate 80 per cent of their allocated airport slots. It reduced that to 50 per cent 
during the pandemic, but that is still tripping up Lufthansa.
Brussels' intransigence is supported by low-cost airlines, who say that if Lufthansa can't fill the planes, it should give 
them up. Ryanair chief Michael O'Leary, a man so disposed to publicity that he probably press released his own 
birth, accuses Lufthansa of "crying crocodile tears about the environment".
O'Leary is on a list of people who I hope never to be in a fight with, alongside Tyson Fury, Dominic Cummings and 
whoever keeps on breaking into cars on our street. But the European Commission should ignore him.
If flying has lost its charm, that's no bad thing
If you want to spend £100 in the most polluting way possible, buy an airline ticket. That's because the ticket price 
includes virtually none of the true cost: the UK subsidises flights by more than £8bn a year, just by not charging 
VAT or fuel duty. This belies O'Leary's call for fair competition. Governments should feel relieved that the pandemic 
has helped to wean people off flying.
In November, even before Omicron hit, international flights were down 47 per cent globally on 2019. Flying has lost 
some of its charm: the realisation that many flights are unnecessary, the hassle of Covid permits, the chance of 
being seated next to an unvaccinated tennis star. John Holland-Kaye, chief executive of Heathrow, an out-of-town 
shopping centre with an airport attached, admits that an end to Covid's legacy is "likely to be years away".
My business friends guess that a quarter of their work travel is never coming back. At Lufthansa, business travel 
makes up 30 per cent of passenger numbers and 45 per cent of revenues, analysts at Bernstein estimate. Maybe 
we could fill these slots with Ryanair holidays. Or perhaps we could act sanely and not force airlines to use their 
slots this year or next. If a climate emergency doesn't mean accepting a lull in air travel and pausing airport 
expansion, what does it mean?
We could use the time to devise frequent flyer taxes: in England, the 10 per cent most frequent flyers take half of 
overseas flights. We could invest like hell in sustainable fuel.
Ryanair's sustainability plan relies on fuelling planes with waste cooking oil. Spoiler: the world does not eat enough 
chips for planes to run on used fat. Synthetic alternatives to kerosene may do the job, as climate expert Chris 
Goodall points out, but they are still small-scale.
Sure, aviation is only a fraction of our emissions. But the lack of urgency is pervasive. This week master stock 
picker Terry Smith unloaded on green pioneer Unilever, saying its management was "obsessed with publicly 
displaying sustainability credentials at the expense of focusing on the fundamentals of the business".
Maybe Smith is right. Maybe when the comet hits we can console ourselves that at least management was focused 
on the fundamentals of the business. But could we give the alternative a chance? Could we look up, and not worry 
that the planes are half-empty in the name of the share price?
henry.mance@ft.com
We could use the lull in aviation to devise frequent flyer taxes and invest like hell in sustainable fuel
Load-Date: January 14, 2022
End of Document
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has $19.31 Million Stock Holdings in 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has 
$19.31 Million Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 14, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 727 words
Body
Ryanair Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS trimmed its holdings in shares of  
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 25.2% during the 3rd quarter, according to its most recent disclosure 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm owned 175,407 shares of the transportation company's 
stock after selling 58,973 shares during the period. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt 
SYS owned approximately 0.08% of Ryanair worth $19,305,000 as of its most recent filing with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission.  
Other large investors have also bought and sold shares of the company. Geode Capital Management LLC raised its 
position in  Ryanair by 3.0% during the second quarter. Geode Capital Management LLC now owns 98,369 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $10,644,000 after buying an additional 2,890 shares during the 
period.  Plaisance Capital LLC acquired a new position in  Ryanair during the second quarter valued at $2,857,000.  
Harbor Investment Advisory LLC raised its position in  Ryanair by 9.5% during the third quarter. Harbor Investment 
Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $245,000 after buying an 
additional 193 shares during the period.  Lazard Asset Management LLC increased its position in  Ryanair by 6.3% 
in the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Ninety 
One UK Ltd acquired a new position in  Ryanair in the 2nd quarter worth about $2,414,000. 43.59% of the stock is 
currently owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Shares of RYAAY stock  traded down $0.94 during mid-day trading on Friday, reaching $115.97. The stock had a 
trading volume of 3,579 shares, compared to its average volume of 388,880. The firm's 50 day simple moving 
average is $106.90 and its 200 day simple moving average is $108.72. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a 
current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $94.68 and a one 
year high of $127.25. The firm has a market cap of $26.28 billion, a PE ratio of -33.21 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The firm had 
revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion.  Sell-side analysts 
forecast that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has $19.31 Million Stock Holdings in 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Several brokerages have weighed in on RYAAY. Barclays  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair 
in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Credit Suisse Group  reaffirmed an "outperform" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Peel Hunt raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" 
rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. Finally, Raymond 
James decreased their price target on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the 
company in a research note on Monday, November 29th. Six research analysts have rated the stock with a hold 
rating and eleven have assigned  a buy rating to the stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair 
presently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: CBOE Russell 2000® Volatility Index  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: January 14, 2022
End of Document
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has $19.31 Million Holdings in Ryanair 
Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has 
$19.31 Million Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 14, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 738 words
Body
Ryanair Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS cut its stake in shares of  Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 25.2% in the 3rd quarter, according to its most recent Form 13F filing with the 
SEC. The institutional investor  owned 175,407 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 58,973 
shares during the period. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS's holdings in Ryanair 
were worth $19,305,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
Other large investors also recently made changes to their positions in the company. HighTower Advisors LLC 
increased its holdings in  Ryanair by 15.5% in the second quarter. HighTower Advisors LLC now owns 2,472 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $267,000 after purchasing an additional 331 shares during the 
period.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its position in  Ryanair by 532.2% during the second quarter. 
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the last quarter.  Citigroup Inc. boosted its position in 
shares of  Ryanair by 187.8% during the 2nd quarter. Citigroup Inc. now owns 61,714 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $6,678,000 after purchasing an additional 40,270 shares in the last quarter.  Atria 
Investments LLC boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 1.0% during the 2nd quarter. Atria Investments LLC 
now owns 14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,595,000 after purchasing an additional 
148 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, Edgestream Partners L.P. bought a new position in shares of  Ryanair 
during the 2nd quarter worth about $242,000. Institutional investors own  43.59% of the company's stock.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY  traded down $0.94 during trading hours on Friday, hitting $115.97. The stock had a trading 
volume of 3,579 shares, compared to its average volume of 388,880. The company has a 50 day simple moving 
average of $106.90 and a two-hundred day simple moving average of $108.72. The company has a debt-to-equity 
ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $94.68 and 
a one year high of $127.25. The firm has a market capitalization of $26.28 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -33.21 
and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 
by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The company 
had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion.  Equities research 
analysts anticipate that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has $19.31 Million Holdings in Ryanair 
Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Several equities analysts recently weighed in on the stock. Wolfe Research cut shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a research report on Wednesday. UBS Group  reiterated a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Morgan Stanley  reiterated an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
restated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. Finally, Sanford C. 
Bernstein lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on 
Monday, November 8th. Six investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have issued  a 
buy rating to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat, the company presently has an average 
rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: FAANG Stocks 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: January 14, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives $132.08 Consensus PT from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Receives $132.08 Consensus PT 
from Analysts
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
January 14, 2022 Friday 5:15 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 869 words
Body
Jan 14, 2022( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has been assigned an average rating of "Buy" from the eighteen research 
firms that are presently covering the stock, MarketBeat[1] reports. Six analysts have rated the stock with a hold 
rating and eleven have issued a buy rating on the company. The average 1 year price objective among brokers that 
have updated their coverage on the stock in the last year is $132.08.  
A number of brokerages recently commented on RYAAY. Barclays reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Sanford C. Bernstein lowered shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Peel Hunt raised 
shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Wolfe 
Research lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a research report on 
Wednesday. Finally, Oddo Bhf lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a 
research report on Monday, November 15th. 
Ryanair stock[2] traded down $1.07 during mid-day trading on Tuesday, hitting $115.84. The stock had a trading 
volume of 2,900 shares, compared to its average volume of 388,880. The firm has a market capitalization of $26.25 
billion, a P/E ratio of -33.21 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a 
debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The firm's 50 day moving average is $106.90 and its 200 day moving average is 
$108.72. Ryanair has a one year low of $94.68 and a one year high of $127.25.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair had a 
negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The company had revenue of $2.10 
billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion. As a group, equities research analysts 
forecast that Ryanair will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
Several hedge funds have recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. Diversified Trust Co grew its 
holdings in Ryanair by 1.6% during the fourth quarter. Diversified Trust Co now owns 39,895 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $4,082,000 after acquiring an additional 618 shares during the period. Bank 
of New York Mellon Corp grew its holdings in Ryanair by 1.0% during the third quarter. Bank of New York Mellon 
Corp now owns 1,464,054 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $161,134,000 after acquiring an 
additional 14,166 shares during the period. Janus Henderson Group PLC grew its holdings in Ryanair by 0.8% 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives $132.08 Consensus PT from Analysts
during the third quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $325,096,000 after acquiring an additional 23,924 shares during the period. Rehmann Capital Advisory 
Group acquired a new stake in Ryanair during the third quarter worth about $212,000. Finally, Migdal Insurance & 
Financial Holdings Ltd. acquired a new stake in Ryanair during the third quarter worth about $91,000. 43.59% of the 
stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: What Is an EV Stock[3] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/types-of-stock/electric-vehicle-stocks/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 14, 2022
End of Document
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has $19.31 Million Stock Holdings in 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has 
$19.31 Million Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
January 14, 2022 Friday 6:21 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 983 words
Body
Jan 14, 2022( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS trimmed its holdings in shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 25.2% during the 3rd quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm owned 175,407 shares of the transportation company's stock after 
selling 58,973 shares during the period. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS owned 
approximately 0.08% of Ryanair worth $19,305,000 as of its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission.  
Other large investors have also bought and sold shares of the company. Geode Capital Management LLC raised its 
position in Ryanair by 3.0% during the second quarter. Geode Capital Management LLC now owns 98,369 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $10,644,000 after buying an additional 2,890 shares during the 
period. Plaisance Capital LLC acquired a new position in Ryanair during the second quarter valued at $2,857,000. 
Harbor Investment Advisory LLC raised its position in Ryanair by 9.5% during the third quarter. Harbor Investment 
Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $245,000 after buying an 
additional 193 shares during the period. Lazard Asset Management LLC increased its position in Ryanair by 6.3% 
in the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Ninety One 
UK Ltd acquired a new position in Ryanair in the 2nd quarter worth about $2,414,000. 43.59% of the stock is 
currently owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Shares of RYAAY stock[1] traded down $0.94 during mid-day trading on Friday, reaching $115.97. The stock had a 
trading volume of 3,579 shares, compared to its average volume of 388,880. The firm's 50 day simple moving 
average is $106.90 and its 200 day simple moving average is $108.72. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a 
current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $94.68 and a one 
year high of $127.25. The firm has a market cap of $26.28 billion, a PE ratio of -33.21 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The firm had 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has $19.31 Million Stock Holdings in 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion. Sell-side analysts 
forecast that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Several brokerages have weighed in on RYAAY. Barclays reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in 
a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Credit Suisse Group reaffirmed an "outperform" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Peel Hunt raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" 
rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. Finally, Raymond 
James decreased their price target on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the 
company in a research note on Monday, November 29th. Six research analysts have rated the stock with a hold 
rating and eleven have assigned a buy rating to the stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair 
presently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: CBOE Russell 2000 Volatility Index [2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/what-is-the-cboe-russell-2000-volatility-Index/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-
ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 14, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $118.09
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $118.09
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
January 14, 2022 Friday 12:21 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 812 words
Body
Jan 14, 2022( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)'s share price gapped down prior to trading on Wednesday . The stock 
had previously closed at $118.09, but opened at $115.65. Ryanair shares last traded at $116.43, with a volume of 
3,878 shares.  
A number of brokerages recently commented on RYAAY. UBS Group reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Credit Suisse Group reaffirmed an "outperform" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Peel Hunt 
raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, 
Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, 
September 17th. Six research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have assigned a buy 
rating to the stock. Based on data from MarketBeat, the stock has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus 
target price of $122.08. 
The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The stock has a 50-
day simple moving average of $106.97 and a 200-day simple moving average of $108.67. The firm has a market 
capitalization of $26.49 billion, a PE ratio of -33.21 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 
by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The firm had 
revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion. Equities analysts 
forecast that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Institutional investors have recently bought and sold shares of the company. Assetmark Inc. boosted its holdings in 
shares of Ryanair by 133.6% in the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $30,000 after acquiring an additional 155 shares during the period. Advisory Services 
Network LLC bought a new position in shares of Ryanair in the second quarter worth $46,000. JFS Wealth Advisors 
LLC bought a new position in shares of Ryanair in the third quarter worth $47,000. Rockefeller Capital Management 
L.P. boosted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 532.2% in the second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management 
L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 
shares during the period. Finally, Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. bought a new stake in Ryanair during 
the third quarter valued at $91,000. 43.59% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $118.09
About Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: What is an Initial Coin Offering (ICO)?[2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-
is-an-initial-coin-offering-ico/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 14, 2022
End of Document
EU says no evidence of carriers operating empty flights
EU says no evidence of carriers operating empty flights
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 14, 2022 Friday 9:10 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 338 words
Highlight: The EU has refuted having any evidence of airlines running empty or 'ghost flights' due to the use-it-or-
lose-it slot rule amid the Covid-19 pandemic, according to Reuters.
Body
A European Commission official was quoted by the news agency as saying: "We actually have no evidence from 
any airline including Lufthansa on any amount of empty flights being operated. Travel has been relatively 
unrestricted. Net bookings are still quite stable." 
The clarification by the EU official was given after a dispute between two major European carriers Lufthansa and 
Ryanair over the use-it-or-lose-it rule. Last month, Lufthansa CEO Carsten Spohr revealed to a newspaper that the 
company had to operate additional flights in winter to maintain their slots, which led to extra emissions.  In a 
statement, Ryanair recently asked the European Commission to ignore Lufthansa's false claims of operating empty 
flights and shielding itself against competition from low-cost carriers. In order to address this problem, Ryanair 
suggested that Lufthansa should sell the flight tickets at lower prices to EU customers. Ryanair said that Lufthansa 
and its subsidiaries have received $13.7bn ((EURO)12bn) of State Aid over the last two years of the pandemic. 
Ryanair Group CEO Michael O'Leary said: "The solution to Lufthansa's 'ghost flights' problem is a simple one, just 
sell these seats to consumers. If Lufthansa really needs to operate these flights (solely to prevent the release of 
these slots to competitor airlines), then they should be required to sell these seats to the public at low fares. "The 
German and EU public have already bailed out Lufthansa with billions of State Aid to Lufthansa and their 
subsidiaries, Brussels Airlines, Swiss and Austrian, and instead of operating empty flights just so they can block 
slots, Lufthansa should release the seats on these flights for sale at low fares to reward the German and European 
taxpayers who have subsidised it with billions of euros during the Covid crisis. "If Lufthansa doesn't want to operate 
'ghost flights' to protect its slots, then simply sell these seats at low fares and help accelerate the recovery of short 
and long haul air travel to and from Europe."
Load-Date: January 31, 2022
EU says no evidence of carriers operating empty flights
End of Document
Use it or lose it: Wizz Air boss calls on airlines to give away airport slots
Use it or lose it: Wizz Air boss calls on airlines to give away airport slots
City A.M.
January 14, 2022 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 226 words
Byline: ILARIA GRASSO MACOLA
Body
WIZZ Air's chief executive Jozsef Varadi said legacy airlines should not retain their airport slots if they are not able 
to use them.
"We would be able to operate those slots at constrained airports, so why are they protected for the benefit of legacy 
carriers who are incapable of operating them because they are inefficient?" Varadi told Reuters yesterday. The 
chief executive's comments came a day after Ryanair's boss Michael O'Leary re-ignited the airport slots or 'ghost 
flights' debacle when he accused carriers such as Lufthansa of "blocking their slots" to protect themselves from 
competition with low-cost airlines.
"The solution to Lufthansa's 'ghost flights' problem is a simple one - just sell these seats to consumers," O'Leary 
said in a statement.
In December, Lufthansa's boss Carsten Spohr said the airline was forced to operate around 18,000 flights just to 
retain its airport slots under EU rules. According to the European Commission (EC), airlines need to use their slots 
if they want to retain them the following year.
Before the pandemic carriers needed use at least 80 per cent of their airport space, but they now need to use just 
50 per cent.
"The relief has worked very well for almost two years now, providing the necessary support that has prevented 
harmful flights operating for the purpose of maintaining slots," a spokesperson said.
Use it or lose it: Wizz Air boss calls on airlines to give away airport slots
Graphic
 
According to EC, airlines need to use their slots if they want to retain them the next year
Load-Date: January 14, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $118.09
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $118.09
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
January 14, 2022 Friday 12:07 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 868 words
Body
Jan 14, 2022( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)'s share price gapped down before the market opened on Wednesday . 
The stock had previously closed at $118.09, but opened at $115.65. Ryanair shares last traded at $116.43, with a 
volume of 3,878 shares traded.  
A number of brokerages have issued reports on RYAAY. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Barclays reissued an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Raymond James reduced their price objective 
on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a research report on 
Monday, November 29th. Peel Hunt raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on 
Friday, September 17th. Finally, Sanford C. Bernstein lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market 
perform" rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. Six investment analysts have rated the stock with a 
hold rating and eleven have issued a buy rating to the stock. According to data from MarketBeat, Ryanair presently 
has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of $122.08. 
The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The stock has a 
market cap of $26.49 billion, a P/E ratio of -33.21 and a beta of 1.58. The stock has a fifty day simple moving 
average of $106.97 and a 200-day simple moving average of $108.67.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The business had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. 
Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. Sell-side analysts 
anticipate that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
A number of institutional investors have recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. HighTower Advisors 
LLC increased its position in shares of Ryanair by 15.5% during the 2nd quarter. HighTower Advisors LLC now 
owns 2,472 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $267,000 after purchasing an additional 331 shares 
during the last quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 532.2% 
during the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the period. Citigroup Inc. boosted its stake in 
shares of Ryanair by 187.8% during the 2nd quarter. Citigroup Inc. now owns 61,714 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $6,678,000 after acquiring an additional 40,270 shares during the period. Atria Investments 
LLC boosted its stake in Ryanair by 1.0% in the 2nd quarter. Atria Investments LLC now owns 14,744 shares of the 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $118.09
transportation company's stock valued at $1,595,000 after purchasing an additional 148 shares during the period. 
Finally, Edgestream Partners L.P. bought a new stake in Ryanair in the 2nd quarter valued at $242,000. 43.59% of 
the stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
About Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: How does the Federal Reserve determine interest rates?[2] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/purpose-functions-federal-reserve/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 14, 2022
End of Document
Brokerages Set Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Target Price at $132.08
Brokerages Set Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Target Price at 
$132.08
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
January 14, 2022 Friday 6:06 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 922 words
Body
Jan 14, 2022( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has received an average rating of "Buy" from the eighteen brokerages 
that are covering the firm, Marketbeat Ratings[1] reports. Six research analysts have rated the stock with a hold 
rating and eleven have issued a buy rating on the company. The average 1-year price objective among analysts 
that have covered the stock in the last year is $132.08.  
A number of research analysts recently weighed in on the stock. Oddo Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Sanford C. Bernstein 
lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on Monday, November 
8th. Raymond James lowered their target price on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating 
on the stock in a research note on Monday, November 29th. Morgan Stanley restated an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, UBS Group reaffirmed a "neutral" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. 
NASDAQ RYAAY[2] traded down $1.07 during trading hours on Tuesday, hitting $115.84. The company's stock 
had a trading volume of 2,900 shares, compared to its average volume of 388,880. The stock has a fifty day moving 
average of $106.90 and a 200 day moving average of $108.72. Ryanair has a twelve month low of $94.68 and a 
twelve month high of $127.25. The firm has a market capitalization of $26.25 billion, a P/E ratio of -33.21 and a beta 
of 1.58. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation company 
reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The firm had 
revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. On average, analysts 
predict that Ryanair will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
A number of large investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. Profund Advisors LLC grew 
its holdings in Ryanair by 2.7% in the 2nd quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $486,000 after acquiring an additional 117 shares during the last quarter. 
First Republic Investment Management Inc. grew its position in shares of Ryanair by 3.5% in the 3rd quarter. First 
Republic Investment Management Inc. now owns 3,975 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$437,000 after buying an additional 134 shares during the period. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management 
Brokerages Set Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Target Price at $132.08
Company LLC grew its holdings in Ryanair by 1.2% in the second quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment 
Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,318,000 after 
purchasing an additional 144 shares during the period. Atria Investments LLC boosted its position in shares of 
Ryanair by 1.0% in the 2nd quarter. Atria Investments LLC now owns 14,744 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $1,595,000 after purchasing an additional 148 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Assetmark 
Inc. increased its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 133.6% during the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $30,000 after acquiring an additional 155 shares in the last 
quarter. Institutional investors own 43.59% of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: Quick Ratio[3] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-quick-ratio/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 14, 2022
End of Document
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has $19.31 Million Holdings in Ryanair 
Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has 
$19.31 Million Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
January 14, 2022 Friday 6:06 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 985 words
Body
Jan 14, 2022( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS cut its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 25.2% in the 3rd quarter, according to its most recent Form 13F filing with the SEC. The 
institutional investor owned 175,407 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 58,973 shares during 
the period. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS's holdings in Ryanair were worth 
$19,305,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
Other large investors also recently made changes to their positions in the company. HighTower Advisors LLC 
increased its holdings in Ryanair by 15.5% in the second quarter. HighTower Advisors LLC now owns 2,472 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $267,000 after purchasing an additional 331 shares during the 
period. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its position in Ryanair by 532.2% during the second quarter. 
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the last quarter. Citigroup Inc. boosted its position in shares 
of Ryanair by 187.8% during the 2nd quarter. Citigroup Inc. now owns 61,714 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $6,678,000 after purchasing an additional 40,270 shares in the last quarter. Atria 
Investments LLC boosted its position in shares of Ryanair by 1.0% during the 2nd quarter. Atria Investments LLC 
now owns 14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,595,000 after purchasing an additional 
148 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Edgestream Partners L.P. bought a new position in shares of Ryanair during 
the 2nd quarter worth about $242,000. Institutional investors own 43.59% of the company's stock.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY[1] traded down $0.94 during trading hours on Friday, hitting $115.97. The stock had a trading 
volume of 3,579 shares, compared to its average volume of 388,880. The company has a 50 day simple moving 
average of $106.90 and a two-hundred day simple moving average of $108.72. The company has a debt-to-equity 
ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $94.68 and 
a one year high of $127.25. The firm has a market capitalization of $26.28 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -33.21 
and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 
by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The company 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Public School Empls Retrmt SYS Has $19.31 Million Holdings in Ryanair 
Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion. Equities research 
analysts anticipate that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
Several equities analysts recently weighed in on the stock. Wolfe Research cut shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "peer perform" rating in a research report on Wednesday. UBS Group reiterated a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Morgan Stanley reiterated an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
restated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. Finally, Sanford C. 
Bernstein lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on 
Monday, November 8th. Six investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have issued a 
buy rating to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat, the company presently has an average 
rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: FAANG Stocks[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/types-of-stock/faang-stocks/ 
[ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 14, 2022
End of Document
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA Trims Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA Trims Stock Position in Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Watchlist News
January 13, 2022 Thursday 2:35 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1053 words
Body
Jan 13, 2022( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA lessened its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
by 0.3% in the 3rd quarter, Holdings Channel[1] reports. The institutional investor owned 7,954,626 shares of the 
transportation company's stock after selling 21,470 shares during the quarter. Massachusetts Financial Services 
Co. MA's holdings in Ryanair were worth $875,485,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
 Several other large investors also recently modified their holdings of the company. Profund Advisors LLC lifted its 
position in shares of Ryanair by 2.7% during the 2nd quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $486,000 after buying an additional 117 shares during the last quarter. 
Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC increased its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 1.2% in 
the 2nd quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $1,318,000 after acquiring an additional 144 shares during the period. 
Atria Investments LLC increased its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 1.0% in the 2nd quarter. Atria Investments 
LLC now owns 14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,595,000 after acquiring an 
additional 148 shares during the period. M&T Bank Corp increased its stake in Ryanair by 5.3% in the 3rd quarter. 
M&T Bank Corp now owns 3,115 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $343,000 after buying an 
additional 156 shares during the period. Finally, Private Advisor Group LLC increased its stake in Ryanair by 6.9% 
in the 2nd quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC now owns 2,535 shares of the transportation company's stock valued 
at $274,000 after buying an additional 163 shares during the period. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 
43.59% of the company's stock.  
A number of research firms have recently weighed in on RYAAY. UBS Group reaffirmed a 'neutral' rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Credit Suisse Group reiterated an 'outperform' rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Raymond James decreased their price objective 
on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an 'outperform' rating on the stock in a research report on 
Monday, November 29th. Barclays reiterated an 'overweight' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on 
Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Sanford C. Bernstein lowered shares of Ryanair from an 'outperform' rating to a 
'market perform' rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Six research analysts have rated the stock 
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA Trims Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
with a hold rating and eleven have assigned a buy rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat, the 
stock has a consensus rating of 'Buy' and an average price target of $122.08. 
 RYAAY stock[2] opened at $114.86 on Thursday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 
week high of $127.25. The company has a market capitalization of $26.03 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.63 
and a beta of 1.58. The firm's 50-day moving average is $106.97 and its two-hundred day moving average is 
$108.67. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The company had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. On average, 
equities research analysts predict that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
 Ryanair Company Profile 
 Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
 Further Reading: How a Put Option Works[3] 
 Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Receive News & Ratings for Ryanair Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[5]. 
 [ 1]: http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/how-put-option-works/ [ 4]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-
basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY&c=Ryanair 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 13, 2022
End of Document
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA Decreases Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA Decreases Stock Position in 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 13, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 723 words
Body
Ryanair Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA reduced its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
by 0.3% in the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities & Exchange 
Commission. The fund owned 7,954,626 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 21,470 shares 
during the period. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA owned about 3.52% of Ryanair worth $875,485,000 at 
the end of the most recent reporting period.  
A number of other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently made changes to their positions 
in RYAAY. Profund Advisors LLC raised its stake in  Ryanair by 2.7% during the 2nd quarter. Profund Advisors LLC 
now owns 4,488 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $486,000 after buying an additional 117 
shares during the last quarter.  Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC increased its holdings 
in  Ryanair by 1.2% in the 2nd quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 
12,181 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,318,000 after acquiring an additional 144 shares in 
the last quarter.  Atria Investments LLC increased its holdings in  Ryanair by 1.0% in the 2nd quarter. Atria 
Investments LLC now owns 14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,595,000 after acquiring 
an additional 148 shares in the last quarter.  M&T Bank Corp increased its holdings in  Ryanair by 5.3% in the 3rd 
quarter. M&T Bank Corp now owns 3,115 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $343,000 after 
acquiring an additional 156 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, Private Advisor Group LLC increased its holdings in  
Ryanair by 6.9% in the 2nd quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC now owns 2,535 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $274,000 after acquiring an additional 163 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors 
own  43.59% of the company's stock.  
RYAAY stock  opened at $114.86 on Thursday. The stock has a market capitalization of $26.03 billion, a PE ratio of 
-32.63 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of $127.25. The 
company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The firm has a 50 day 
moving average of $106.97 and a 200 day moving average of $108.67.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 
by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The company 
had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion.  On average, equities 
research analysts expect that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA Decreases Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
A number of research firms have recently commented on RYAAY. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded Ryanair from 
an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Credit Suisse 
Group  reiterated an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Oddo 
Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, 
November 15th. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on 
Monday, October 25th. Finally, Raymond James reduced their target price on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to 
$138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a report on Monday, November 29th. Six research 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have issued  a buy rating to the company. Based on 
data from MarketBeat.com, the company currently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average target price of 
$122.08. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: Hedge Funds - Risk or Reward?  
Load-Date: January 13, 2022
End of Document
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA Decreases Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA Decreases Stock Position in 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 13, 2022 Thursday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 723 words
Body
Ryanair Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA reduced its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
by 0.3% in the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities & Exchange 
Commission. The fund owned 7,954,626 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 21,470 shares 
during the period. Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA owned about 3.52% of Ryanair worth $875,485,000 at 
the end of the most recent reporting period.  
A number of other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently made changes to their positions 
in RYAAY. Profund Advisors LLC raised its stake in  Ryanair by 2.7% during the 2nd quarter. Profund Advisors LLC 
now owns 4,488 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $486,000 after buying an additional 117 
shares during the last quarter.  Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC increased its holdings 
in  Ryanair by 1.2% in the 2nd quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 
12,181 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,318,000 after acquiring an additional 144 shares in 
the last quarter.  Atria Investments LLC increased its holdings in  Ryanair by 1.0% in the 2nd quarter. Atria 
Investments LLC now owns 14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,595,000 after acquiring 
an additional 148 shares in the last quarter.  M&T Bank Corp increased its holdings in  Ryanair by 5.3% in the 3rd 
quarter. M&T Bank Corp now owns 3,115 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $343,000 after 
acquiring an additional 156 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, Private Advisor Group LLC increased its holdings in  
Ryanair by 6.9% in the 2nd quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC now owns 2,535 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $274,000 after acquiring an additional 163 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors 
own  43.59% of the company's stock.  
RYAAY stock  opened at $114.86 on Thursday. The stock has a market capitalization of $26.03 billion, a PE ratio of 
-32.63 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of $127.25. The 
company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The firm has a 50 day 
moving average of $106.97 and a 200 day moving average of $108.67.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 
by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The company 
had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion.  On average, equities 
research analysts expect that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
Massachusetts Financial Services Co. MA Decreases Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
A number of research firms have recently commented on RYAAY. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded Ryanair from 
an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Credit Suisse 
Group  reiterated an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Oddo 
Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, 
November 15th. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on 
Monday, October 25th. Finally, Raymond James reduced their target price on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to 
$138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a report on Monday, November 29th. Six research 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have issued  a buy rating to the company. Based on 
data from MarketBeat.com, the company currently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average target price of 
$122.08. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: Hedge Funds - Risk or Reward?  
Load-Date: January 13, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Downgraded by Wolfe Research to 'Peer Perform'
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Downgraded by Wolfe Research to 'Peer 
Perform'
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
January 13, 2022 Thursday 3:05 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 842 words
Body
Jan 13, 2022( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgWolfe Research lowered shares of Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) from an outperform rating to a peer perform rating in a report issued on Wednesday, Analyst 
Price Targets[1] reports. 
A number of other analysts have also recently weighed in on the company. Barclays reiterated an overweight rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Sanford C. Bernstein cut shares of Ryanair 
from an outperform rating to a market perform rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. Credit Suisse Group 
reissued an outperform rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Oddo Bhf 
lowered shares of Ryanair from an outperform rating to a neutral rating in a research report on Monday, November 
15th. Finally, UBS Group restated a neutral rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. 
Six research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have issued a buy rating to the company's 
stock. Based on data from MarketBeat, Ryanair currently has an average rating of Buy and an average price target 
of $122.08. 
NASDAQ:RYAAY[2] opened at $114.86 on Wednesday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick 
ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The stock has a market cap of $26.03 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -
32.63 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair has a one year low of $94.68 and a one year high of $127.25. The business's 50-
day simple moving average is $106.97 and its 200 day simple moving average is $108.67.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The firm had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. 
Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. On average, equities 
research analysts predict that Ryanair will post -1.01 EPS for the current year.  
A number of institutional investors and hedge funds have recently bought and sold shares of the business. Bank of 
New York Mellon Corp grew its position in shares of Ryanair by 1.0% during the 3rd quarter. Bank of New York 
Mellon Corp now owns 1,464,054 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $161,134,000 after 
acquiring an additional 14,166 shares during the period. Janus Henderson Group PLC lifted its stake in Ryanair by 
0.8% in the 3rd quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $325,096,000 after purchasing an additional 23,924 shares in the last quarter. Rehmann Capital 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Downgraded by Wolfe Research to 'Peer Perform'
Advisory Group purchased a new stake in Ryanair in the 3rd quarter worth $212,000. Migdal Insurance & Financial 
Holdings Ltd. purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at about $91,000. Finally, 
Squarepoint Ops LLC purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at about 
$1,299,000. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.59% of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: Diversification For Individual Investors [3] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/diversification-investing/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 13, 2022
End of Document
Airlines trends: Pilots most mentioned term on Twitter Q4 2021
Airlines trends: Pilots most mentioned term on Twitter Q4 2021
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 13, 2022 Thursday 8:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 2299 words
Highlight: Pilots lead as Airport Technology lists the top five terms tweeted on airlines in Q4 2021, based on data 
from GlobalData's Travel and Tourism Influencer Platform.
Body
The top trends are the most mentioned terms or concepts among Twitter discussions of more than 150 airlines 
experts tracked by GlobalData's Travel and Tourism Influencer platform during the fourth quarter (Q4) of 2021. 1. 
Pilots - 583 mentionsPilot shortage affecting regional airlines in the US, automation start-up Skyryse's flight 
automation technology reducing pilot workload, and US-based airline United Express grounding regional jets due to 
pilot shortage were some of the popular discussions on pilots in Q4 2021. Jon Ostrower, editor-in-chief at aviation 
and aerospace focused website The Air Current, shared an article on how the shortage of pilots is affecting regional 
airlines in the US and impacting the recovery of the aviation industry. A large number of pilots left their jobs after 
accepting severance packages as they approached retirement age. Airlines have been forced to shuffle the 
available pilots, which is leading to shortages and creating operational challenges. The continued pilot shortage can 
threaten the recovery of the aviation industry to pre-pandemic levels and create long-term challenges, the article 
highlighted. Pilots was also mentioned by aviation journalist Charles Alcock in a tweet about Skyryse securing 
$200m in a Series B funding round, which will help the company to certify its FlightOS system being developed in 
collaboration with Robinson Helicopter and four other manufacturers. 
FlightOS is designed to increase safety by decreasing pilot workload and training requirements. The system uses a 
touchscreen tablet display and a joystick to replace some of the more complicated controls found on a normal 
general aviation flight deck. The technology can tackle safety issues due to pilot errors and delays caused by bad 
weather by introducing commercial aviation safety standards to general aviation. Skyryse has raised total funding of 
$250m with the new funding round, the article detailed. In another tweet, Ben Mutzabaugh, senior aviation editor at 
travel website The Points Guy, shared an article on United Express grounding 100 regional jets due to pilot 
shortage. United Express' CEO Scott Kirby noted that staffing issues are impacting the 50-seater regional aircraft 
operations, as a result of which the markets that depend on the aircraft will lose service. The airline has 
discontinued regional service to 11 cities including Twin Falls and Idaho. It has proposed redirecting funding to pilot 
training through Essential Air Service, a federal government subsidy, as part of a long-term strategy to boost the 
Airlines trends: Pilots most mentioned term on Twitter Q4 2021
supply of pilots. The airline industry, particularly in the U.S., cannot return to 2019 levels without enough aviators. 
There are transient & structural barriers blocking the pipeline of pilots and the effects will be felt acutely at U.S. 
regional airlines. https://t.co/XKZzeVdhYZ - Jon Ostrower (@jonostrower) October 29, 20212. Passengers - 502 
mentionsMalaysian airline AirAsia allowing only fully vaccinated passengers to board flights, low-cost carrier 
Ryanair's passenger numbers remaining lower than pre-pandemic levels and airlines in Europe agreeing to refund 
passengers for cancelled flights, were some of the discussions on passengers in Q4. Jamie Freed, a journalist, 
shared an article on AirAsia allowing only fully vaccinated adult passengers to board its flights. The airline requires 
unvaccinated passengers under the age of 18 who have not been vaccinated to be accompanied by a vaccinated 
family member. The requirements are part of the airline's Covid-19 mitigation plan. Passengers are also required to 
check in through the airline app to limit physical interaction at the airport clearance and boarding process, the article 
highlighted. In another tweet, Simon Calder, senior travel editor at online media The Independent, shared an article 
on Ryanair carrying 39.1 million passengers between April and September 2021, which is 55% less than those 
carried during the same period in 2019. The percentage of seats filled or load factor averaged at 79% compared 
with 96% in 2019. Consumer confidence was impacted during the period due to the inconsistent travel restrictions 
implemented by the UK government although bookings surged for the October and Christmas period, according to 
the article. The airline's losses also reduced by nine times to $55.6m compared to the same period in 2020. Another 
discussion on passengers was shared by The Points Guy on 16 airlines in Europe agreeing to refund passengers 
for cancelled flights. The agreement follows a discussion held by the airlines with the European Commission and 
Consumer Protection Cooperation (CPC). The 16 airlines include Aegean Airlines, Air France, Alitalia, Austrian 
Airlines, British Airways, Brussels Airlines, EasyJet, Eurowings, Iberia, KLM, Lufthansa, Norwegian, Ryanair, TAP 
Portugal, Vueling and Wizz Air. The airlines also agreed to provide better notice to passengers when flights are 
cancelled. They are now required to distinguish between passenger-cancelled flights and airline-cancelled flights 
and offer rerouting or a cash refund in the event that a flight is cancelled by the airline, the article highlighted. 
Malaysia's AirAsia Group to only allow fully vaccinated passengers on domestic and international flights, effective 
immediately https://t.co/HrXbwWevZ2 - Jamie Freed (@Jamie_Freed) October 6, 20213. Sustainability - 239 
mentionsThe Fit for 55 package introduced by the European Union (EU) to reduce emissions, sustainable aviation 
fuels (SAFs) reducing the use of petroleum jet fuels, and sustainable fuels company Velocys Renewables' aviation 
fuel supply deals were among the popular discussions on sustainability in the last quarter. Eamonn Brennan, 
director general at civil-military organisation EUROCONTROL, shared an article on the EU introducing the Fit for 55 
package to reduce emissions by at least 55% by 2030 with the aim to make Europe the world's first climate-neutral 
continent. The package includes multiple proposals including the revision of the EU Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Trading System to phase out free allowances offered to aircraft operators. The revision will enable the commission 
to reduce the emissions limit by 4.2% a year against the current 2.2% to fulfil the 2030 emission target. The EU also 
aims to increase the use of SAFs through the ReFuelEU Aviation proposal. Another proposal under the package is 
to revise the Energy Taxation Directive, end fossil-fuel subsidies and revise tax exemptions for jet fuels for business 
and leisure flights. Furthermore, a new Alternative Fuels Infrastructure Regulation (AFIR) is planned for airports to 
develop electric infrastructure, the article noted. Isaac Alexander, editor-in-chief at aerospace and defence news 
blog Jet City Star, tweeted on how SAFs can reduce the use of petroleum jet fuels. Made from agricultural or 
recycled fatty goods, SAFs emit carbon, but at a considerably lower rate than fossil fuels. EU's 2030 climate target 
aims to boost the use of SAFs blended with jet fuel to 5% by 2030 from the current usage of less than 1%. Oil 
company Shell and oil refining company Neste are investing in producing renewable fuels that can cover the 
majority of the demand for SAFs in Europe. The cost of producing the fuel, however, is one of the biggest hurdles in 
producing SAFs, the article highlighted. In another tweet, freelance aviation and travel writer Paul Thompson 
shared an article on Velocys Renewables' aviation fuel supply deals with Southwest Airlines and British Airways. 
Southwest Airlines will purchase 219 million gallons of SAFs for a period of 15 years, which will be supplied by 
Velocys' Bayou Fuels biorefinery. Velocys also signed a memorandum of understanding with the International 
Consolidated Airlines Group, which includes British Airways, Aer Lingus, and Iberia. The deal includes the supply of 
73 million gallons of SAF for ten years. The fuel will be also supplied by the Velocys' Bayou Fuels biorefinery, which 
is expected to commence operations in 2030, the article highlighted. What does the EU's "Fit for 55" mean for 
aviation? Find out in our latest Sustainability Briefing https://t.co/Hkfokw9Qdb @Transport_EU @IATA @A4Europe 
@CANSOEurope @ACI_EUROPE @EBAAorg @eraaorg @ECACceac - Eamonn Brennan (@eurocontrolDG) 
October 31, 20214. Cargo - 213 mentionsAir Canada increasing cargo capacity to support the economic supply 
chain in British Columbia, Global Crossing Airlines' (GlobalX) passenger aircraft entering cargo conversion, and 
Airlines trends: Pilots most mentioned term on Twitter Q4 2021
Dubai limiting cargo imports to clear shipment backlogs were among the popular discussions around cargo in Q4. 
Howard Slutsken, owner and president of consulting services provider Wingborn, shared an article on Air Canada 
increasing cargo capacity into and out of Vancouver to help the supply chain network affected by floods in British 
Columbia. The airline increased its cargo capacity by 586 tonnes (t). It rescheduled 28 passenger aircraft from 
narrow-body aircraft to be operated with wide-body aircraft, which will enable an additional 282t of goods to be 
transported across the country. Air Canada will also operate 13 cargo flights from its hubs in Toronto, Montreal and 
Calgary using wide-body aircraft, the article detailed. Cargo was also discussed by an online platform for 
commercial airline news and market intelligence in an article on GlobalX's first A321 passenger aircraft entering the 
first phase of conversion to freighter aircraft. The aircraft will first undergo maintenance at aircraft engineering and 
maintenance company Hong Kong Engineering Company's (HAECO) facility in Florida, US. It will then undergo 
cargo conversion at Precision Aircraft Solutions' facility in Orlando. It is the first of four A321 units planned to be 
converted and leased to the airline by Greenwich Highland Aviation (GHA). It is expected to be delivered in July 
2022, the article detailed. In another tweet, Isaac Alexander shared an article on Dubai limiting cargo imports into its 
international airport to clear the large inbound cargo shipments backlog. Dnata, the cargo unit of state-owned airline 
group Emirates, stated that transit cargo bound to other destinations in the United Arab Emirates will be subject to 
the restrictions. The cargo backlog was caused by labour constraints, although the group has brought newly trained 
staff to deal with the increased volumes. The Emirates Group declared a loss of $6bn for the financial year ending 
March 2021 and laid off nearly a third of its staff due to travel restrictions that grounded majority of its aircraft. 
 Dnata also reduced headcount by 29%. Cargo operations, however, declined by just 5% as freighter activity 
continued to grow to destinations such as the US and Australia, the article highlighted. ???? Assisting flood-
disrupted supply chains in B.C., Air Canada to add belly space with 28 upgauged pax wide-body and 13 cargo-only 
flights 
to 
@yvrairport 
from 
YYZ, 
YUL 
and 
YYC. 
Details: 
https://t.co/oYIz6tog5I 
??: 
Mine 
pic.twitter.com/Qa2pLo2PBc - Howard Slutsken (@HowardSlutsken) November 22, 20215. Coronavirus Disease 
2019 - 156 mentionsSouthwest Airlines implementing the US President Joe Biden federal vaccine mandate, 
Ghana's international airport planning to fine airlines that carry unvaccinated passengers, and the US introducing 
Covid-19 international travel requirements were popular discussions in Q4 2021. The Points Guy shared an article 
on Southwest Airlines implementing the federal vaccine mandate announced by US President Joe Biden despite 
objections from its pilot's union. The President's vaccine mandate applies to companies with more than 100 
employees, including weekly testing as an option, but does not apply to federal contractors. Southwest Airlines 
announced that employees are required to be completely vaccinated against Covid-19 allowing an exception for a 
religious, medical, or disability reason. The airline's pilots union, however, warned that the mandate could lead to 
the exodus of pilots and requested to exempt pilots from the vaccine mandate, the article noted. Alex Macheras, an 
aviation analyst, shared an article on the plans of Kotoka International Airport in Ghana to penalise airlines that 
carry unvaccinated passengers. The airport plans to fine $3,500 to airlines for each passenger who is either 
unvaccinated or tests positive for coronavirus upon arrival in the country. The stringent measures are being 
implemented as vaccination efforts in the country have been impacted by logistics issues and several cases 
reported in the country have been associated with Covid-19 cases recorded at the Kotoka airport, the article 
highlighted. In another tweet, David Koenig, business writer at The Associated Press, shared an article on the US 
introducing new Covid-19 international travel requirements. The new guidelines exempt children under the age of 
18 and people from countries with vaccine shortages although most travellers to the US will be required to be 
vaccinated against Covid-19. The new rules will require airlines to gather contact information on passengers 
regardless of whether they have been vaccinated to aid with contact tracing if necessary. In addition, vaccinated 
passengers will be required to produce proof of a negative Covid-19 test within three days of travel, while those who 
have not been vaccinated will be required to show documentation of a test done within one day of the flight. The 
guidelines are aimed at removing restrictions for non-essential travel for various countries and encouraging more 
Americans to get vaccinated, according to the article. Southwest will implement federal vaccine mandate, airline 
confirms, despite pilot objections https://t.co/GoKlxbdxpl - The Points Guy (@thepointsguy) October 5, 2021
Load-Date: January 27, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Rating Reaffirmed by Wolfe Research
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Stock Rating Reaffirmed by Wolfe Research
Newstex Blogs 
Watchlist News
January 12, 2022 Wednesday 2:35 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 897 words
Body
Jan 12, 2022( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY)'s stock had its 'peer perform' rating reissued by stock analysts at Wolfe Research in a 
research note issued to investors on Wednesday, Price Targets.com[1] reports. 
 Several other research analysts have also recently issued reports on the company. Barclays reissued an 
'overweight' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair 
from an 'outperform' rating to a 'neutral' rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. JPMorgan Chase & 
Co. reaffirmed a 'neutral' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Peel Hunt 
raised Ryanair from a 'hold' rating to a 'buy' rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Credit 
Suisse Group reaffirmed an 'outperform' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 
17th. Six equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have given a buy rating to 
the company. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the company currently has a consensus rating of 'Buy' and a 
consensus target price of $122.08. 
NASDAQ RYAAY[2] opened at $118.09 on Wednesday. The company has a market capitalization of $26.76 billion, 
a price-to-earnings ratio of -33.55 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio 
of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The stock has a 50-day moving average of $107.09 and a 200 day moving 
average of $108.62. Ryanair has a one year low of $94.68 and a one year high of $127.25.  
 Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The firm had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. On average, 
equities analysts predict that Ryanair will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Several hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. 
Assetmark Inc. boosted its holdings in Ryanair by 133.6% during the 3rd quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $30,000 after acquiring an additional 155 shares during the 
period. Advisory Services Network LLC purchased a new position in Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at 
$46,000. JFS Wealth Advisors LLC purchased a new position in Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at $47,000. 
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its holdings in Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Rating Reaffirmed by Wolfe Research
Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after 
acquiring an additional 463 shares during the period. Finally, Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. purchased 
a new position in Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at $91,000. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by 
hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
 Ryanair Company Profile 
 Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
 Read More: Why is momentum important to successful trading?[3] 
Receive News & Ratings for Ryanair Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[4]. 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-are-momentum-indicators-and-what-do-they-show/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY&c=Ryanair 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Rating Reaffirmed by Wolfe Research
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Stock Rating Reaffirmed by Wolfe Research
American Banking and Market News
January 12, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 655 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY)'s stock had its "peer perform" rating reissued by stock analysts at Wolfe 
Research in a research note issued to investors on Wednesday, Price Targets.com  reports. 
•
Airline Stocks - Top Airline Stocks to Buy Now 
Several other research analysts have also recently issued reports on the company. Barclays  reissued an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. JPMorgan Chase 
& Co.  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Peel Hunt 
raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Credit 
Suisse Group  reaffirmed an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 
17th. Six equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have given a buy rating to 
the company. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the company currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and 
a consensus target price of $122.08. 
NASDAQ RYAAY  opened at $118.09 on Wednesday. The company has a market capitalization of $26.76 billion, a 
price-to-earnings ratio of -33.55 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 
1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The stock has a 50-day moving average of $107.09 and a 200 day moving average 
of $108.62. Ryanair has a one year low of $94.68 and a one year high of $127.25.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The firm had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%.  On average, 
equities analysts predict that  Ryanair will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
Several hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. 
Assetmark Inc. boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 133.6% during the 3rd quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $30,000 after acquiring an additional 155 shares during the 
period.  Advisory Services Network LLC purchased a new position in  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at 
$46,000.  JFS Wealth Advisors LLC purchased a new position in  Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at $47,000.  
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd quarter. 
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the period.  Finally, Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Rating Reaffirmed by Wolfe Research
Ltd. purchased a new position in  Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at $91,000. 43.91% of the stock is currently 
owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: Why is momentum important to successful trading? 
This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order 
to provide readers with the fastest and most accurate reporting. This story was reviewed by MarketBeat's editorial 
team prior to publication. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair 's (RYAAY) "Peer Perform" Rating Reiterated at Wolfe Research
Ryanair's (RYAAY) "Peer Perform" Rating Reiterated at Wolfe Research
American Banking and Market News
January 12, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 613 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY)'s stock had its "peer perform" rating restated by equities research analysts at 
Wolfe Research in a research report issued on Wednesday, Analyst Price Targets  reports. 
Several other equities analysts have also recently issued reports on RYAAY. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Monday, November 15th. Barclays  reissued an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Credit Suisse Group  
reaffirmed an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Sanford C. 
Bernstein lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, 
November 8th. Finally, UBS Group  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on 
Tuesday, September 28th. Six analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have given a buy rating 
to the stock. Based on data from MarketBeat.com, the company  has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus 
price target of $122.08. 
NASDAQ RYAAY  traded down $2.56 during mid-day trading on Wednesday, hitting $115.53. The stock had a 
trading volume of 5,568 shares, compared to its average volume of 431,503. The firm's 50 day moving average is 
$107.09 and its 200 day moving average is $108.62. Ryanair has a twelve month low of $94.68 and a twelve month 
high of $127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. 
The stock has a market capitalization of $26.18 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.86 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation company 
reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 by 
($0.64). The company had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%.  As a group, 
equities research analysts expect that  Ryanair will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
Institutional investors have recently modified their holdings of the company. Assetmark Inc. raised its holdings in 
shares of  Ryanair by 133.6% during the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $30,000 after acquiring an additional 155 shares in the last quarter.  Advisory Services 
Network LLC bought a new position in  Ryanair during the second quarter valued at about $46,000.  JFS Wealth 
Advisors LLC acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair in the third quarter valued at about $47,000.  Rockefeller 
Capital Management L.P. grew its position in shares of  Ryanair by 532.2% in the second quarter. Rockefeller 
Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after 
purchasing an additional 463 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. 
Ryanair 's (RYAAY) "Peer Perform" Rating Reiterated at Wolfe Research
acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair in the third quarter valued at about $91,000. 43.91% of the stock is 
owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: The Role of a Fiduciary and Individual Investors  
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $118.09
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $118.09
American Banking and Market News
January 12, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 617 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) gapped down before the market opened on Wednesday . The 
stock had previously closed at $118.09, but opened at $115.65. Ryanair shares last traded at $116.43, with a 
volume of 3,878 shares.  
Several brokerages have recently issued reports on RYAAY. Oddo Bhf lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating 
to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded Ryanair from 
an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Morgan Stanley  
reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, 
Barclays  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. 
Six research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and eleven have issued  a buy rating to the company. 
According to MarketBeat, the stock  has an average rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
The firm has a 50-day moving average of $107.09 and a 200 day moving average of $108.62. The company has a 
debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. The stock has a market capitalization of 
$26.09 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.86 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair had a 
negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The company had revenue of $2.10 
billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion.  On average, equities analysts forecast that  
Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
A number of large investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. HighTower Advisors LLC 
increased its stake in  Ryanair by 15.5% during the 2nd quarter. HighTower Advisors LLC now owns 2,472 shares 
of the transportation company's stock worth $267,000 after acquiring an additional 331 shares during the period.  
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. increased its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 532.2% in the 2nd quarter. 
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$58,000 after purchasing an additional 463 shares during the last quarter.  Citigroup Inc. increased its stake in 
shares of  Ryanair by 187.8% in the 2nd quarter. Citigroup Inc. now owns 61,714 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $6,678,000 after purchasing an additional 40,270 shares during the last quarter.  Atria 
Investments LLC increased its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 1.0% in the 2nd quarter. Atria Investments LLC now 
owns 14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,595,000 after purchasing an additional 148 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $118.09
shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Edgestream Partners L.P. bought a new position in shares of  Ryanair in the 
2nd quarter valued at $242,000. 43.91% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
About Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY ) 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: What do I need to know about analyst ratings?  
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $118.09
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $118.09
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
January 12, 2022 Wednesday 6:05 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 876 words
Body
Jan 12, 2022( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) shares gapped down prior to trading on Wednesday . The stock had 
previously closed at $118.09, but opened at $115.65. Ryanair shares last traded at $116.43, with a volume of 3,878 
shares trading hands.  
A number of research analysts recently commented on the company. Raymond James reduced their target price on 
Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on the stock in a research note on Monday, 
November 29th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on 
Friday, September 17th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. restated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on 
Monday, October 25th. Oddo Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in 
a research report on Monday, November 15th. Finally, Barclays reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Six investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold 
rating and eleven have issued a buy rating to the stock. According to MarketBeat, the stock currently has a 
consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The business's 50 
day moving average is $107.09 and its two-hundred day moving average is $108.62. The company has a market 
cap of $26.09 billion, a PE ratio of -32.86 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last released its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 by 
($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The firm had 
revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion. As a group, equities 
research analysts predict that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
A number of hedge funds have recently made changes to their positions in the business. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC increased its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 6.3% in the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after 
buying an additional 296,366 shares during the last quarter. Capital International Investors increased its holdings in 
shares of Ryanair by 3.1% in the 2nd quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $1,067,172,000 after buying an additional 294,131 shares during the last 
quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC grew its holdings in Ryanair by 14.3% during the 2nd quarter. 
William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $243,862,000 after purchasing an additional 281,774 shares during the last quarter. Pendal Group Ltd 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $118.09
bought a new position in Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at about $30,945,000. Finally, Baillie Gifford & Co. 
grew its holdings in Ryanair by 2.5% during the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $1,186,170,000 after purchasing an additional 264,133 shares during 
the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: What is the 52-week high/low? [2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/market-data/52-
week-lows/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Sold by Inspire Investing LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Sold by Inspire Investing 
LLC
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
January 12, 2022 Wednesday 3:20 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 974 words
Body
Jan 12, 2022( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Inspire Investing LLC trimmed its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 14.7% during 
the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities & Exchange 
Commission. The firm owned 8,890 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 1,530 shares during 
the quarter. Inspire Investing LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $978,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
Other institutional investors and hedge funds also recently modified their holdings of the company. Barclays PLC 
lifted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 51.8% during the third quarter. Barclays PLC now owns 51,024 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $5,616,000 after buying an additional 17,410 shares during the period. 
BlackRock Inc. boosted its stake in Ryanair by 26.5% during the 3rd quarter. BlackRock Inc. now owns 1,132,424 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $124,636,000 after acquiring an additional 237,115 shares 
during the last quarter. Boston Private Wealth LLC lifted its position in shares of Ryanair by 12.7% in the 3rd 
quarter. Boston Private Wealth LLC now owns 2,863 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $314,000 
after buying an additional 323 shares during the last quarter. TPI Fund Managers Ltd lifted its position in Ryanair by 
1.7% in the 3rd quarter. TPI Fund Managers Ltd now owns 67,723 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $7,454,000 after purchasing an additional 1,158 shares during the last quarter. Finally, JustInvest LLC 
lifted its position in Ryanair by 34.8% in the 3rd quarter. JustInvest LLC now owns 3,394 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $374,000 after purchasing an additional 876 shares during the last 
quarter. Institutional investors own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
Several research analysts have recently weighed in on the stock. Wolfe Research reissued a "peer perform" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Wednesday. Credit Suisse Group reissued an "outperform" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft restated a "buy" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reiterated a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Finally, UBS Group restated a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Six investment analysts have rated 
the stock with a hold rating and eleven have assigned a buy rating to the company's stock. Based on data from 
MarketBeat.com, the stock currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
NASDAQ RYAAY[1] opened at $118.09 on Wednesday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a fifty-two week low of $94.68 
and a fifty-two week high of $127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Sold by Inspire Investing LLC
current ratio of 1.34. The business's fifty day moving average is $107.09 and its 200 day moving average is 
$108.62. The company has a market capitalization of $26.76 billion, a PE ratio of -33.55 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus 
estimates of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 
14.51%. The firm had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 
billion. On average, sell-side analysts forecast that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 EPS for the current year.  
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: Are sell-side analysts objective?[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/what-does-sell-sde-analysts-ratings-mean/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
--Wolfe Research Downgrades Ryanair Holdings to Peer Perform From Outperform
--Wolfe Research Downgrades Ryanair Holdings to Peer Perform From 
Outperform
MT Newswires Live Briefs
January 12, 2022 Wednesday 8:35 AM EST
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 43 words
Body
 (MT Newswires covers equity, commodity and economic research from major banks and research firms in North 
America, Asia and Europe. Research providers may contact us here: https://www.mtnewswires.com/contact-us)
Price: 116.78, Change: -1.31, Percent Change: -1.11
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
Inspire Investing LLC Has $978,000 Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Inspire Investing LLC Has $978,000 Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
January 12, 2022 Wednesday 3:05 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 902 words
Body
Jan 12, 2022( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Inspire Investing LLC lessened its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 14.7% in the 3rd quarter, 
according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The fund 
owned 8,890 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 1,530 shares during the quarter. Inspire 
Investing LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $978,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
Several other hedge funds and other institutional investors also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the 
company. Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new position in shares of Ryanair in the second quarter worth 
$46,000. JFS Wealth Advisors LLC acquired a new position in shares of Ryanair in the third quarter worth 
approximately $47,000. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. lifted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 532.2% in the 
second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the period. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. 
increased its holdings in Ryanair by 106.8% in the third quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. now owns 
1,729 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $192,000 after purchasing an additional 893 shares in the 
last quarter. Finally, Park Avenue Securities LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair in the third quarter worth 
approximately $223,000. 43.91% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
Ryanair stock[1] opened at $118.09 on Wednesday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a twelve month low of $94.68 and a 
twelve month high of $127.25. The business has a fifty day moving average of $107.09 and a two-hundred day 
moving average of $108.62. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio 
of 0.96. The firm has a market cap of $26.76 billion, a P/E ratio of -33.55 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 
by ($0.64). The company had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 
billion. Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. Equities analysts 
expect that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of research analyst reports. Wolfe Research restated a "peer perform" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Wednesday. Barclays reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Peel Hunt upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" 
Inspire Investing LLC Has $978,000 Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reaffirmed a "buy" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Six investment analysts have rated the stock 
with a hold rating and eleven have assigned a buy rating to the stock. According to data from MarketBeat, the stock 
has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: What Does An Overweight Rating Mean?[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-does-
an-overweight-rating-mean/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair CEO Says Lufthansa Raised False Environmental Concerns To Protect Airport Slots
Ryanair CEO Says Lufthansa Raised False Environmental Concerns To 
Protect Airport Slots
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
January 12, 2022 Wednesday 10:01 AM EST
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 94 words
Body
 The Chief Executive of Ryanair (RY4C.IR) Micheal O'Leary said rival Lufthansa (LHA.F) shed "crocodile tears" 
about the environment in order to protect its slots at major airports, Bloomberg News reported Wednesday, citing an 
emailed statement. 
O'Leary said Lufthansa's claim that European Union's regulations will force the company to fly 18,000 empty flights 
in winter which could result in carbon-dioxide emissions. He said the German carrier should sell cheaper tickets to 
avoid empty flights.
Shares of Ryanair and Lufthansa were down 1% on Wednesday afternoon.
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
Low-cost airlines flying too high after strong run - Deutsche Bank
Low-cost airlines flying too high after strong run - Deutsche Bank
 
Proactive Investors (UK)
January 12, 2022 Wednesday 03:04 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Proactive UK Ltd All Rights Reserved
Length: 161 words
Byline: Jordan Brodie Farooqui
Body
Shares in low-cost carriers (LCCs) have taken off following the scrapping of pre-departure Covid-19 tests and 
removal of all countries from the 'red list' in the UK, but now are high enough suggests Deutsche Bank. 
The onset of Omicron-related concerns sent shockwaves through the entire economy, said Deutsche Bank (DB) 
analyst Jamie Rowbotham, but even with this, since the day before the newest Covid-19 variant's arrival (25 
November), EasyJet PLC, Wizz Air Holdings PLC (AIM:WIZZ), and Ryanair Holdings PLC (LSE:RYA) have climbed 
12%, 9%, and 6% respectively.
DB has downgraded EasyJet from 'buy' to 'hold' while reducing its price target to 680p from 720p - though this is 
still 10% above its Wednesday afternoon share price of 623.2p.
Wizz Air remains a 'buy', despite a lowered price target of  5,600p from 5,800p.
Omicron has also prompted a reduction in the broker's short-term traffic forecasts along the lines of those pencilled 
in for Ryanair on 23 December. 
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
Airbus vs Boeing - Orders & Deliveries through year-end 2021
Airbus vs Boeing - Orders & Deliveries through year-end 2021
Newstex Blogs 
AirInsight
January 12, 2022 Wednesday 8:05 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 386 words
Byline: Addison Schonland
Body
Jan 12, 2022( AirInsight: http://airinsight.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Here's the updated model. 
Both OEMs saw a good recovery 
Boeing won more orders, but it is unclear how many of the 2021[1] orders were rolled from last year 
 Airbus[2] won deliveries handily Airbus and Boeing[3] each have a favorite LCC; IndiGo and Ryanair[4] 
respectively Page 5 & 6 - here we see Boeing's dominance in freighters playing a pivotal role. And why Airbus 
decided on the A350F. Page 8 highlights the A321neos dominance of its segment Page 10 shows how the MAX 
recovery helped Boeing's order[5] book Pages 11 through 12 show MoM performance. Pay special attention to 
MoM 3 - the MoM segment is growing and the absence of a credible (to the market) option from Boeing is glaringly 
obvious. This is confirmed on Page 12. 
 Please follow and like us: 
 [ 
1]: 
https://airinsight.com/tag/2021/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://airinsight.com/category/aerospace/airbus/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://airinsight.com/category/aerospace/boeing/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://airinsight.com/tag/ryanair/ 
[ 
5]: 
https://airinsight.com/tag/300-aircraft-order/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
Airbus vs Boeing - Orders & Deliveries through year-end 2021
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Given Average Recommendation of "Buy" by Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Given Average Recommendation of 
"Buy" by Analysts
American Banking and Market News
January 11, 2022 Tuesday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 690 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has been given a consensus recommendation of "Buy" by the 
eighteen ratings firms that are currently  covering the stock, MarketBeat.com  reports. Five equities research 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued  a buy rating on  the company. The average 
1 year target price among brokerages that have covered the stock in the last year is $132.08.  
•
Airline Stocks - Top Airline Stocks to Buy Now 
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of research reports. Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating 
to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Sanford C. Bernstein lowered shares of Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. JPMorgan Chase & 
Co.  reissued a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Morgan Stanley  
reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Credit Suisse 
Group  restated an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. 
Several hedge funds have recently made changes to their positions in the company. Lazard Asset Management 
LLC increased its stake in  Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 
5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 
shares in the last quarter.  Capital International Investors increased its stake in  Ryanair by 3.1% during the 2nd 
quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares in the last quarter.  William Blair Investment 
Management LLC increased its stake in  Ryanair by 14.3% during the 2nd quarter. William Blair Investment 
Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $243,862,000 after 
purchasing an additional 281,774 shares in the last quarter.  Pendal Group Ltd bought a new stake in  Ryanair 
during the 3rd quarter worth approximately $30,945,000.  Finally, Baillie Gifford & Co. increased its stake in  
Ryanair by 2.5% during the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $1,186,170,000 after purchasing an additional 264,133 shares in the last quarter. 43.91% of 
the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $115.97 on Tuesday. Ryanair has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of 
$127.25. The firm has a market cap of $26.28 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.95 and a beta of 1.58. The 
company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The company's 50 day 
moving average is $107.11 and its 200-day moving average is $108.52.  
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Given Average Recommendation of "Buy" by Analysts
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 
by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The company 
had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion.  Research 
analysts predict that  Ryanair will post -1.01 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: 52-week highs 
This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order 
to provide readers with the fastest and most accurate reporting. This story was reviewed by MarketBeat's editorial 
team prior to publication. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com
Load-Date: January 11, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Given Average Recommendation of "Buy" by Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Given Average Recommendation of 
"Buy" by Analysts
American Banking and Market News
January 11, 2022 Tuesday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 626 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has been given a consensus recommendation of "Buy" by the 
eighteen ratings firms that are currently  covering the stock, MarketBeat.com  reports. Five equities research 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued  a buy rating on  the company. The average 
1 year target price among brokerages that have covered the stock in the last year is $132.08.  
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of research reports. Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating 
to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Sanford C. Bernstein lowered shares of Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. JPMorgan Chase & 
Co.  reissued a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Morgan Stanley  
reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Credit Suisse 
Group  restated an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. 
Several hedge funds have recently made changes to their positions in the company. Lazard Asset Management 
LLC increased its stake in  Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 
5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 
shares in the last quarter.  Capital International Investors increased its stake in  Ryanair by 3.1% during the 2nd 
quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares in the last quarter.  William Blair Investment 
Management LLC increased its stake in  Ryanair by 14.3% during the 2nd quarter. William Blair Investment 
Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $243,862,000 after 
purchasing an additional 281,774 shares in the last quarter.  Pendal Group Ltd bought a new stake in  Ryanair 
during the 3rd quarter worth approximately $30,945,000.  Finally, Baillie Gifford & Co. increased its stake in  
Ryanair by 2.5% during the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $1,186,170,000 after purchasing an additional 264,133 shares in the last quarter. 43.91% of 
the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $115.97 on Tuesday. Ryanair has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of 
$127.25. The firm has a market cap of $26.28 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.95 and a beta of 1.58. The 
company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The company's 50 day 
moving average is $107.11 and its 200-day moving average is $108.52.  
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Given Average Recommendation of "Buy" by Analysts
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 
by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The company 
had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion.  Research 
analysts predict that  Ryanair will post -1.01 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: 52-week highs 
Load-Date: January 11, 2022
End of Document
Seven Indians on UAE -flagged ship seized by Houthis safe; Govt working on early release [details]
Seven Indians on UAE-flagged ship seized by Houthis safe; Govt working on 
early release [details]
Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times India
January 11, 2022 Tuesday 8:10 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 701 words
Body
Jan 11, 2022( International Business Times India: http://ibtimes.co.in Delivered by Newstex)  
 Belarus 'Hijacks' Ryanair Flight to Arrest Lukashenko Critic 
The Houthi militia seized a UAE ship in the Red Sea off Yemen earlier this month. The Saudi-led coalition fighting 
the Houthi militia in Yemen had said that the UAE-flagged vessel carrying medical equipment was attacked and 
seized by the Houthi militia. Now, the Indian Ministry of External Affairs has revealed in a statement on Tuesday 
that seven out of 11 persons on board "Rwabee" ship are Indians and that the Centre is making efforts to secure 
their early release. 
 "Government of India has been closely monitoring developments following the seizure of the UAE flagged ship 
Rwabee off the port of Hodeidah (Yemen) by the Houthis on January 2, 2022. We are in touch with the company 
operating the ship and have been informed that out of the 11 crew members on board the ship, seven are from 
India," MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. 
 Arindam Bagchi, IFSTwitter 
 Bagchi also confirmed that all Indian crew members aboard the seized ship are safe. 
 "We also understand from the company and other sources that all Indian crew members are safe. Government of 
India is making all efforts to secure their early release. We urge the Houthis to ensure the safety and well-being of 
the crew members and release them immediately," he added. 
 Since January 2, seven fellow Indians are in the custody of Houthi (Yemen) militia 
They were part of 11-member crew of the hijacked ship 'Rwabee' (UAE flagged)@MEAIndia[1] says India is making 
efforts to secure their release 
All Indians on the hijacked ship are reportedly safe pic.twitter .com/JcZ0mVXazQ[2] — Danish Manzoor (@TellDM) 
January 11, 2022[3] ; 
UN called for maximum restraint 
 Earlier this month, the UN called for maximum restraint after the Houthi[4]militia in Yemen seized a United Arab 
Emirates (UAE) ship. 
"We reaffirm the need to respect the rights and obligations relating to maritime navigation in accordance with 
international law. We urge all concerned parties and countries in the region to exercise maximum restraint and 
Seven Indians on UAE -flagged ship seized by Houthis safe; Govt working on early release [details]
refrain from taking any escalatory action," the chief spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres was 
quoted as saying on January 6. 
 The spokesman said the UN reiterates its call "for the Yemeni[5]parties to engage with the special envoy of the 
secretary-general (Hans Grundberg of Sweden) and his mediation efforts with the aim to advance the political 
process to reach a comprehensive, negotiated settlement to end the conflict in the country". 
 [ 
1]: 
https://twitter.com 
/MEAIndia?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw 
[ 
2]: 
https://t.co/JcZ0mVXazQ 
[ 
3]: 
https://twitter.com/TellDM/status/1480978139866025988?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw [ 4]: https://www.ibtimes.co.in/why-
us-revoking-terrorist-designation-yemens-houthis-explained-833137 [ 5]: https://www.ibtimes.co.in/war-torn-yemen-
confirms-first-coronavirus-case-braces-outbreak-817216 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 11, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Average Recommendation of 'Buy' from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Receives Average Recommendation 
of 'Buy' from Analysts
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
January 11, 2022 Tuesday 10:10 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 818 words
Body
Jan 11, 2022( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have earned a consensus recommendation of "Buy" from the 
eighteen research firms that are currently covering the company, MarketBeat[1] reports. Five research analysts 
have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the company. The average 12 month 
price objective among analysts that have issued ratings on the stock in the last year is $132.08.  
Several research analysts have weighed in on the company. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Morgan Stanley reissued an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Peel Hunt raised 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, JPMorgan 
Chase & Co. reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. 
Shares of Ryanair stock[2] opened at $115.97 on Tuesday. The stock has a fifty day simple moving average of 
$107.11 and a 200 day simple moving average of $108.52. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 
1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-month high of $127.25. The 
company has a market capitalization of $26.28 billion, a P/E ratio of -32.95 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of 
$1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The 
business had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion. On 
average, analysts predict that Ryanair will post -1.01 EPS for the current year.  
Several large investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. Assetmark Inc. increased its 
stake in Ryanair by 133.6% in the 3rd quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $30,000 after acquiring an additional 155 shares during the last quarter. Advisory Services 
Network LLC bought a new position in Ryanair in the 2nd quarter worth about $46,000. JFS Wealth Advisors LLC 
bought a new position in Ryanair in the 3rd quarter worth about $47,000. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. 
increased its stake in Ryanair by 532.2% in the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the last 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Average Recommendation of 'Buy' from Analysts
quarter. Finally, Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. bought a new position in Ryanair in the 3rd quarter 
worth about $91,000. Institutional investors own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: What is the Consumer Price Index (CPI)?[3] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-consumer-price-index/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 11, 2022
End of Document
The Double-Handed Approach to Innovation
The Double-Handed Approach to Innovation
Newstex Blogs 
BBN Times
January 11, 2022 Tuesday 11:40 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 624 words
Byline: Paul Sloane
Body
Jan 07, 2022( BBN Times: https://www.bbntimes.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Most new products and services are developments or combinations of existing offerings.  
But just adding features can lead to a product overloaded with 'feature bloat'. Instead try giving with one hand and 
taking away with the other. Add something different and take away something of little value.  
Start by focussing on the market leading product (or products). List its top features and identify the benefit which 
customers get from each of the features. What problems are solved and how important are they? Then prioritise the 
list. From a customer perspective[1] which are the most valuable and least valuable features? You may need input 
from a survey or focus group to help at this stage. 
Ask what features could we add to our product to make it more valuable and different. Brainstorm[2] this topic and 
come up with ideas which will appeal to some customers and make your new product stand out. Prioritise the ideas 
by customer appeal and feasibility.  
Now look at the features of the leading product and ask - what elements could we eliminate? In particular look for 
ways to make the product or service simpler, easier to use and cheaper to produce. Focus on the items which are 
of lesser value to the customers but add complexity to the offer. Prioritise two or three.  
Next put together your new product packages. Add and subtract. Can you differentiate your innovation and increase 
the appeal of the product - maybe to a certain segment of the market - by adding something and removing 
something else? Does the new combination work? It does not have to appeal to the whole market. It is more 
important to find one segment which would love it. 
Consider the Apple iPhone compared to the Blackberry. The iPhone [3]added new functionality such as camera and 
music while eliminating the physical keyboard. Similarly with the low-cost airline Ryanair. It eliminated allocated 
seating and travel agents. It added new destinations of smaller airports that the major airlines did not use. And it 
offered lower cost.  
Don't just add features for the sake of adding features. Add something special and at the same time eliminate 
something costly or awkward. Give with one hand and take away with the other. 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.bbntimes.com/companies/who-is-your-ideal-customer 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.bbntimes.com/companies/how-to-name-a-new-product [ 3]: https://www.bbntimes.com/technology/top-
7-features-of-developing-ios-applications 
The Double-Handed Approach to Innovation
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 11, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair to close Frankfurt base from late 1Q22
Ryanair to close Frankfurt base from late 1Q22
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
January 10, 2022
Copyright 2022 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 569 words
Body
Ryanair (FR, Dublin Int'l) has confirmed that it will close its Frankfurt Int'l base on March 31, 2022, and has 
reallocated its five aircraft stationed there to airports that levy lower airport charges. Airport operator Fraport AG 
recently increased its charges to airlines by 4.3%.
"In a post-COVID recovery phase, airports must incentivise traffic recovery; unfortunately Frankfurt, instead of 
providing traffic recovery incentives, has chosen to increase prices even further, making it uncompetitive with 
European airports," the airline said in a statement on January 7. Ryanair said there were "a multitude of airports 
throughout Europe" seeking to attract its business, which will include the deployment of sixty-five new B737-8-200s 
across Europe in summer 2022.
In response to a query from ch-aviation, a Fraport AG spokesman said: "We offer a high-quality product in the best 
location in Europe. The associated infrastructure costs are covered by a very fair fee regulation. In 2022, fees rose 
slightly for the first time since 2017. The 4% fee increase is merely an inflation adjustment. Other European air 
traffic hubs are increasing their fees much higher, well in the double-digit percentage range. Many airlines want to 
grow their business here in 2022 because of the fair solution offered in Frankfurt."
Fraport AG also told the Frankfurt Allgemeine that Ryanair's decision was regrettable, but the company believed the 
new fee schedule was "extremely moderate" in comparison to other airports of similar size, pointing in particular to 
the 50% fee hike at London Heathrow. He also pointed out that the increase at Frankfurt had been approved by the 
Hessian Ministry of Economics and Transport.
The airline said that all Ryanair Frankfurt am Main-based pilots and cabin crew have received notification of the 
base closure at the end of March 2022 but would be able to relocate to alternative positions within the Ryanair 
network.
Ryanair passengers impacted by flight cancellations from Frankfurt would be notified and refunded.
The Irish budget carrier reiterated its well-publicised criticism of government protection of flag carriers. "The 
German government continues to protect legacy carriers, such as Lufthansa (LH, Frankfurt Int'l) who have soaked 
up EUR9 billion euros (USD10.1 billion) in state aid rather than introduce non-discriminatory traffic recovery 
schemes open to all airlines," it charged.
Ryanair to close Frankfurt base from late 1Q22
"We are disappointed to announce the closure of our Frankfurt am Main base at the end of March 2022, but we 
have no alternative in response to a decision from the airport to increase its airport fees, despite the collapse in 
traffic caused by the COVID-19 pandemic," commented Ryanair Director (Commercial) Jason McGuinness. "While 
Ryanair continues to invest in German airports which understand the requirement to lower airport charges to 
recover traffic, competition in the German market has been massively distorted by the EUR9 billion of state aid that 
was pumped into Lufthansa, which continues to cut its fleet, connections, and jobs," he added.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: January 20, 2022
End of Document
JFS Wealth Advisors LLC Acquires Shares of 429 Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
JFS Wealth Advisors LLC Acquires Shares of 429 Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
January 10, 2022 Monday 12:21 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 912 words
Body
Jan 10, 2022( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 JFS Wealth Advisors LLC acquired a new stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the 3rd quarter, 
Holdings Channel[1] reports. The institutional investor acquired 429 shares of the transportation company's stock, 
valued at approximately $47,000.  
Other institutional investors and hedge funds have also recently made changes to their positions in the company. 
Advisory Services Network LLC acquired a new position in Ryanair in the 2nd quarter valued at $46,000. 
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd quarter. 
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $58,000 
after purchasing an additional 463 shares during the period. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. grew its stake in 
shares of Ryanair by 106.8% during the 3rd quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. now owns 1,729 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $192,000 after purchasing an additional 893 shares during the period. 
Park Avenue Securities LLC acquired a new position in shares of Ryanair during the 3rd quarter worth $223,000. 
Finally, Sawtooth Solutions LLC grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 16.1% during the 2nd quarter. Sawtooth 
Solutions LLC now owns 2,080 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $225,000 after purchasing an 
additional 289 shares during the period. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors.  
Shares of RYAAY stock[2] opened at $115.99 on Monday. The firm has a market cap of $26.29 billion, a P/E ratio 
of -32.95 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $94.68 and a 1-year high of $127.25. The 
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. The firm's 50-day simple 
moving average is $107.11 and its 200-day simple moving average is $108.52.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters' 
consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). The company had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to 
analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion. Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin 
of 25.41%. Analysts expect that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of recent analyst reports. Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Friday, September 17th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reiterated a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Credit Suisse Group reiterated an 
"outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. UBS Group reiterated a 
JFS Wealth Advisors LLC Acquires Shares of 429 Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
"neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Finally, Oddo Bhf lowered 
shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. 
Five analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the company's stock. 
Based on data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average target 
price of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: What does an inverted yield curve signify? [3] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 
1]: 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-an-inverted-yield-curve/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 10, 2022
End of Document
Brussels pressed to alter 'ghost flight' rules Airlines European carriers plead for easing of 'use it or lose it' rules 
on landing slots
Brussels pressed to alter 'ghost flight' rules; Airlines European carriers 
plead for easing of 'use it or lose it' rules on landing slots
Financial Times (London, England)
January 10, 2022 Monday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 8
Length: 488 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS
Body
Brussels is resisting pressure to change rules forcing airlines to use or lose their valuable landing slots after 
warnings of thousands of half-empty and polluting "ghost flights" operating this winter.
The German carrier Lufthansa has said it will be forced to operate 18,000 flights unnecessarily this winter to comply 
with EU rules that mean airlines have to use their slots regularly or give them up. Some EU governments are also 
demanding changes to Commission rules that require airlines to use 50 per cent of their slots this winter or hand 
them back to be reassigned, down from the normal 80 per cent.
But Adina Valean, EU transport commissioner, told the Financial Times the rules "give airlines the needed flexibility 
to prevent empty flights". She pointed out that flight data showed that air traffic this winter was about 77 per cent of 
pre-pandemic levels, and close to estimates of 79 per cent predicted for the start of the year. "While we need to 
remain cautious, it may indicate that the impact of the fourth wave and the Omicron variant on air travel may not be 
as negative and long-lasting as initially feared," said Valean.
The EU's slot threshold is due to rise to 64 per cent in the summer, when demand for flying is expected to recover. 
When there are travel restrictions in place, airlines can claim force majeure and do not have to use the slots.
George Gilkinet, Belgium's transport minister, has also demanded changes to the system, warning that ghost flights 
risk undermining the EU's ambitious emissions reduction goals. In a letter to Valean, seen by the FT, Gilkinet calls 
Brussels pressed to alter 'ghost flight' rules Airlines European carriers plead for easing of 'use it or lose it' rules 
on landing slots
for "fast action" to reduce the 50 per cent threshold and provide "new exemption possibilities [for carriers] ... at least 
for the winter season 2021-22 and summer 2022, and until a way out of this coronavirus crisis can be confirmed".
Lufthansa's uneconomical flights will still carry passengers who want to fly, but will be so quiet that the airline would 
cancel them if it could do so without losing future landing rights at key airports including Frankfurt.
Take-off and landing rights at busy airports are some of airlines' most valuable assets and can change hands for 
tens of millions of pounds.
The question over how to handle slots during the crisis has caused a rift in the aviation world, and pitted flag 
carriers such as Lufthansa against low-cost challengers, such as Ryanair and Wizz Air.
Long-haul carriers, which have been badly hit by the crisis and are cut off from many of their routes, have argued 
that the "use it or lose it" rules should be waived during the pandemic, while lowcost airlines, seeking to use the 
pandemic to mount a land grab, have pushed for full competition to return.
Valean said some low-cost airlines had "quickly adapted to the new reality and often reached activity close to 2019 
levels". She defended the slot rules saying they were vital to protect airports, consumers, and competition.
Load-Date: January 9, 2022
End of Document
Brussels pressed to alter 'ghost flight' rules Airlines European carriers plead for easing of 'use it or lose it' rules 
on landing slots
Brussels pressed to alter 'ghost flight' rules; Airlines European carriers 
plead for easing of 'use it or lose it' rules on landing slots
Financial Times (London, England)
January 10, 2022 Monday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 488 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS ; MEHREEN KHAN
Body
Brussels is resisting pressure to change rules forcing airlines to use or lose their valuable landing slots after 
warnings of thousands of half-empty and polluting "ghost flights" operating this winter.
The German carrier Lufthansa has said it will be forced to operate 18,000 flights unnecessarily this winter to comply 
with EU rules that mean airlines have to use their slots regularly or give them up. Some EU governments are also 
demanding changes to Commission rules that require airlines to use 50 per cent of their slots this winter or hand 
them back to be reassigned, down from the normal 80 per cent.
But Adina Valean, EU transport commissioner, told the Financial Times the rules "give airlines the needed flexibility 
to prevent empty flights". She pointed out that flight data showed that air traffic this winter was about 77 per cent of 
pre-pandemic levels, and close to estimates of 79 per cent predicted for the start of the year. "While we need to 
remain cautious, it may indicate that the impact of the fourth wave and the Omicron variant on air travel may not be 
as negative and long-lasting as initially feared," said Valean.
The EU's slot threshold is due to rise to 64 per cent in the summer, when demand for flying is expected to recover. 
When there are travel restrictions in place, airlines can claim force majeure and do not have to use the slots.
George Gilkinet, Belgium's transport minister, has also demanded changes to the system, warning that ghost flights 
risk undermining the EU's ambitious emissions reduction goals. In a letter to Valean, seen by the FT, Gilkinet calls 
Brussels pressed to alter 'ghost flight' rules Airlines European carriers plead for easing of 'use it or lose it' rules 
on landing slots
for "fast action" to reduce the 50 per cent threshold and provide "new exemption possibilities [for carriers] ... at least 
for the winter season 2021-22 and summer 2022, and until a way out of this coronavirus crisis can be confirmed".
Lufthansa's uneconomical flights will still carry passengers who want to fly, but will be so quiet that the airline would 
cancel them if it could do so without losing future landing rights at key airports including Frankfurt.
Take-off and landing rights at busy airports are some of airlines' most valuable assets and can change hands for 
tens of millions of pounds.
The question over how to handle slots during the crisis has caused a rift in the aviation world, and pitted flag 
carriers such as Lufthansa against low-cost challengers, such as Ryanair and Wizz Air.
Long-haul carriers, which have been badly hit by the crisis and are cut off from many of their routes, have argued 
that the "use it or lose it" rules should be waived during the pandemic, while lowcost airlines, seeking to use the 
pandemic to mount a land grab, have pushed for full competition to return.
Valean said some low-cost airlines had "quickly adapted to the new reality and often reached activity close to 2019 
levels". She defended the slot rules saying they were vital to protect airports, consumers, and competition.
Load-Date: January 9, 2022
End of Document
Brussels pressed to alter 'ghost flight' rules Airlines European carriers plead for easing of 'use it or lose it' rules 
on landing slots
Brussels pressed to alter 'ghost flight' rules; Airlines European carriers 
plead for easing of 'use it or lose it' rules on landing slots
Financial Times (London, England)
January 10, 2022 Monday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 8
Length: 488 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS : MEHREEN KHAN
Body
Brussels is resisting pressure to change rules forcing airlines to use or lose their valuable landing slots after 
warnings of thousands of half-empty and polluting "ghost flights" operating this winter.
The German carrier Lufthansa has said it will be forced to operate 18,000 flights unnecessarily this winter to comply 
with EU rules that mean airlines have to use their slots regularly or give them up. Some EU governments are also 
demanding changes to Commission rules that require airlines to use 50 per cent of their slots this winter or hand 
them back to be reassigned, down from the normal 80 per cent.
But Adina Valean, EU transport commissioner, told the Financial Times the rules "give airlines the needed flexibility 
to prevent empty flights". She pointed out that flight data showed that air traffic this winter was about 77 per cent of 
pre-pandemic levels, and close to estimates of 79 per cent predicted for the start of the year. "While we need to 
remain cautious, it may indicate that the impact of the fourth wave and the Omicron variant on air travel may not be 
as negative and long-lasting as initially feared," said Valean.
The EU's slot threshold is due to rise to 64 per cent in the summer, when demand for flying is expected to recover. 
When there are travel restrictions in place, airlines can claim force majeure and do not have to use the slots.
George Gilkinet, Belgium's transport minister, has also demanded changes to the system, warning that ghost flights 
risk undermining the EU's ambitious emissions reduction goals. In a letter to Valean, seen by the FT, Gilkinet calls 
Brussels pressed to alter 'ghost flight' rules Airlines European carriers plead for easing of 'use it or lose it' rules 
on landing slots
for "fast action" to reduce the 50 per cent threshold and provide "new exemption possibilities [for carriers] ... at least 
for the winter season 2021-22 and summer 2022, and until a way out of this coronavirus crisis can be confirmed".
Lufthansa's uneconomical flights will still carry passengers who want to fly, but will be so quiet that the airline would 
cancel them if it could do so without losing future landing rights at key airports including Frankfurt.
Take-off and landing rights at busy airports are some of airlines' most valuable assets and can change hands for 
tens of millions of pounds.
The question over how to handle slots during the crisis has caused a rift in the aviation world, and pitted flag 
carriers such as Lufthansa against low-cost challengers, such as Ryanair and Wizz Air.
Long-haul carriers, which have been badly hit by the crisis and are cut off from many of their routes, have argued 
that the "use it or lose it" rules should be waived during the pandemic, while lowcost airlines, seeking to use the 
pandemic to mount a land grab, have pushed for full competition to return.
Valean said some low-cost airlines had "quickly adapted to the new reality and often reached activity close to 2019 
levels". She defended the slot rules saying they were vital to protect airports, consumers, and competition.
Load-Date: January 9, 2022
End of Document
Brussels pressed to alter 'ghost flight' rules Airlines European carriers call for easing of 'use it or lose it' 
directive on landing slots
Brussels pressed to alter 'ghost flight' rules; Airlines European carriers call 
for easing of 'use it or lose it' directive on landing slots
Financial Times (London, England)
January 10, 2022 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 488 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS
Body
Brussels is resisting pressure to change rules forcing airlines to use or lose their valuable landing slots after 
warnings of thousands of half-empty and polluting "ghost flights" operating this winter.
The German carrier Lufthansa has said it will be forced to operate 18,000 flights unnecessarily this winter to comply 
with EU rules that mean airlines have to use their slots regularly or give them up. Some EU governments are also 
demanding changes to Commission rules that require airlines to use 50 per cent of their slots this winter or hand 
them back to be reassigned, down from the normal 80 per cent.
But Adina Valean, EU transport commissioner, told the Financial Times the rules "give airlines the needed flexibility 
to prevent empty flights". She pointed out that flight data showed that air traffic this winter was about 77 per cent of 
pre-pandemic levels, and close to estimates of 79 per cent predicted for the start of the year. "While we need to 
remain cautious, it may indicate that the impact of the fourth wave and the Omicron variant on air travel may not be 
as negative and long-lasting as initially feared," said Valean.
The EU's slot threshold is due to rise to 64 per cent in the summer, when demand for flying is expected to recover. 
When there are travel restrictions in place, airlines can claim force majeure and do not have to use the slots.
George Gilkinet, Belgium's transport minister, has also demanded changes to the system, warning that ghost flights 
risk undermining the EU's ambitious emissions reduction goals. In a letter to Valean, seen by the FT, Gilkinet calls 
Brussels pressed to alter 'ghost flight' rules Airlines European carriers call for easing of 'use it or lose it' 
directive on landing slots
for "fast action" to reduce the 50 per cent threshold and provide "new exemption possibilities [for carriers] ... at least 
for the winter season 2021-22 and summer 2022, and until a way out of this coronavirus crisis can be confirmed".
Lufthansa's uneconomical flights will still carry passengers who want to fly, but will be so quiet that the airline would 
cancel them if it could do so without losing future landing rights at key airports including Frankfurt.
Take-off and landing rights at busy airports are some of airlines' most valuable assets and can change hands for 
tens of millions of pounds.
The question over how to handle slots during the crisis has caused a rift in the aviation world, and pitted flag 
carriers such as Lufthansa against low-cost challengers, such as Ryanair and Wizz Air.
Long-haul carriers, which have been badly hit by the crisis and are cut off from many of their routes, have argued 
that the "use it or lose it" rules should be waived during the pandemic, while lowcost airlines, seeking to use the 
pandemic to mount a land grab, have pushed for full competition to return.
Valean said some low-cost airlines had "quickly adapted to the new reality and often reached activity close to 2019 
levels". She defended the slot rules saying they were vital to protect airports, consumers, and competition.
Load-Date: January 9, 2022
End of Document
Nesorin'i Google ny doka YouTube ahitana ny famotopotorana ireo gadra politika Belarosiana
Nesorin'i Google ny doka YouTube ahitana ny famotopotorana ireo gadra 
politika Belarosiana
Newstex Blogs 
Global Voices Online - Malagasy
January 10, 2022 Monday 5:12 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1884 words
Byline: Liva Andriamanantena
Body
Jan 10, 2022( Global Voices Online - Malagasy: http://mg.globalvoicesonline.org/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Lazain'ireo mpikatroka mpanohitra fa manitsakitsaka ny politikan'ny YouTube ireo dokan-dahatsary 
[ Image removed: Photo by StockSnap on Pixabay, Pixabay License. ][1] Sary avy amin'ny StockSnap tao amin'ny 
Pixabay[2], Lisansa Pixabay[3]. 
 Voalaza fa nesorin'ny Google sy ny YouTube ireo doka an-dahatsary mampiady hevitra mampiseho ireo sary 
fakana am-bavany an'ireo gadra politika Belarosiana nalefan'ny fantsona YouTube Belarosiana mpanohana ny 
governemanta. 
 Tamin'ny volana Mey 2021 no nahitan'ireo Belarosiana sy ny mpanao gazety iraisam-pirenena sy mpikatroka 
voalohany ireo dokambarotra, Namoaka[4] momba ilay zavatra hitany tao amin'ny Twitter i Tadeusz Giczan, 
Belarosiana mpanao gazety sady mpikaroka: 
Fun fact: for almost a year Belarusian state news agency BelTA has been using hostage videos like the one with 
Roman Protasevich as paid ads on YouTube with links to their network of pro-govt telegram channels. We tried 
everything but YouTube says there's nothing wrong about it. pic.twitter.com/suFn3ISdPi[5] 
 — Tadeusz Giczan (@TadeuszGiczan) May 25, 2021[6] 
 Zava-misy mampiomehy: efa ho herintaona izao no nampiasain'ny masoivohom-baovaom-panjakana Belarosiana 
BelTA ny lahatsary takalon'aina tahaka ilay iray ahitana an'i Roman Protasevich ho toy ny dokambarotra 
handoavam-bola ao amin'ny YouTube misy rohy mankany amin'ny tambajotran'ny fantsona telegrama mpanohana 
ny governemanta. Nanandrana ny zava-drehetra izahay saingy nilaza ny YouTube fa tsy misy maharatsy izany. 
pic.twitter .com/suFn3ISdPi[7]; 
 Ahitana ireo mpikamban'ny mpanohitra sy ireo mpanao gazety mahaleo tena nogadrain'ny fitondrana Lukashenka 
izay toa fiaiken-keloka natao an-tery ireo lahatsary fohy. Nampiasaina mba hampiroboroboana ny fampahalalam-
baovao mpomba ny governemanta BelTA sy ny rohy mankany amin'ireo horonan-tsary lava kokoa navoakan'ny 
Fantsona YouTube[8] ireo doka ireo 'Belarosia - firenena ho an'ny fiainana', mifandray amin'ny tambajotram-
panjakana ao amin'ny fantsona Telegram, araka ny filazan'ny fanadihadiana nataon'ny EUvsDisinfo[9]. Anisan'ireo 
Nesorin'i Google ny doka YouTube ahitana ny famotopotorana ireo gadra politika Belarosiana
miseho amin'ny dokambarotra an-dahatsary i Raman Pratasevich, mpanao gazety mahaleo tena sady mpitantana 
ny NEXTA Live[10] fantsona Telegram, sy ny sakaizany Sofia Sapega izay nosamborina taorian'ny nanerena ny 
fiaramanidina Ryanair hidina an-tany[11] tamin'ny volana Mey 2021. 
 Nampiasa horonan-tsary fieken-keloka an-tery i Belarosia teo aloha mba hanaratsiana ireo mpanohitra, 
anisan'izany ny lehiben'ny mpanohitra natao sesitany, Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya. Tamin'ny volana Aogositra 2020, 
fotoana fohy taorian'ny nanombohan'ny hetsi-panoherana ny governemanta[12] tao amin'ny firenena taorian'ny 
fifidianana feno hosoka, namoaka lahatsarin'i[13] Tsikhanouskaya ny fanjakana milaza amin'ireo mpomba azy mba 
'tsy hanao vivery ny ainy' sy tsy hanatevin-daharana ny fihetsiketsehana faobe. Niala tao Belarosia i 
Tsikhanouskaya fotoana fohy taorian'izay ary nanao fanentanana ho famotsorana ireo gadra politika rehetra. 
 Nanameloka[14] ny fampiroboroboana ilay horonantsary fieken-keloka an-tery[15] ny vondrona mpiaro ny 
zon'olombelona, ary nanamarika[16] ireo mpikatroka fa tsy nanaja ny politikan'ny sehatra Google sy YouTube izy 
ireo ary nandika ny Fifanarahan'ny Firenena Mikambana manohitra ny fampijaliana ihany koa. Araka ny nolazain'ny 
sasany tamin'ireo voafonja[17] izay navotsotra taorian'izay, dia nampiasa fampijaliana, herisetra ara-batana ary ara-
tsaina ny sampan-draharaham-piarovan'ny fanjakana mba hahazoana ireo fijoroana vavolombelona voarakitra. 
 Tamin'ny volana Mey 2021, nilaza tamin'ny[18] Rest of World ny mpitondratenin'ny Google fa 'nahatsikaritra ny 
doka roa (manasongadina an'i Pratasevich sy Sapega - GV) ny orinasa ary nandray fepetra araka ny politika 
mikasika ny votoaty tsy mendrika'. Ny Politikam-pitantanana Dokambarotra YouTube dia mandrara an-kitsirano 
ny[19] dokambarotra izay 'manasongadina olona amin'ny fanararaotana na fanorisorenana; ny votoaty milaza fa tsy 
nitranga ny zava-nitranga mampalahelo, na mpilalao sarimihetsika ireo niharam-boina na ny fianakaviany, na miray 
tsikombakomba amin'ny fanafenana ny zava-nitranga'. Mandrara ny kabary fanavakavahana, ny fanararaotana, ny 
fanorisorenana, ary ny votoaty mampiroborobo ny herisetra, mampidi-doza na fihetsika tsy ara-dalna ihany koa ny 
torolalan'ny vondrom-piarahamonina ao amin'ilay sehatra[20]. 
 Na izany aza, nanomboka nanohy namoaka[21] dokan-dahatsary YouTube mitovitovy amin'izany ny fantsona 
Belarosiana mpomba ny governemanta izay mirakitra fiaiken-keloka an-tery ataon'ireo gadra politika hafa sy ny 
propagandy mpomba ny governemanta. 
 Tamin'ny 21 Desambra 2021, nandefa taratasy misokatra[22] ho an'ny tale jeneralin'ny Google Sundar Pichai ny 
lehiben'ny mpanohitra Tsikhanouskaya, nisolo tena ny Filankevitry ny Fandrindrana ny mpanohitra sy ny 
fianakavian'ireo voatazona, nangataka ny Google sy ny YouTube hanaisotra ireo horonantsary manafintohina, 
hanakana ny fametrahana dokambarotra mitovy amin'izany amin'ny manaraka, ary hametra ny fidirana amin'ny 
tolotra ho an'ireo tompon'andraikitra tamin'ny votoaty. 
 Tamin'ny 3 Janoary tamin'ity taona ity, nitatitra i Tikhanovskaya fa nahazo valiny avy amin'i Karan Bhatia, lefitry ny 
Raharaham-panjakana sy ny Politikam-panjakana ao amin'ny Google. 
Following my letter, @Google[23] removed the ads with interrogations of polit. prisoners. By the response letter, the 
accounts running those ads are now restricted. The videos of forced testimonies violate the UN Convention against 
Torture. Thank you @Google[24] for standing by Belarus. pic.twitter .com/qJITO19o2z[25]; 
 — Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya (@Tsihanouskaya) January 3, 2022[26] 
 Taorian'ny taratasiko, nesorin'ny @Google[27] ny dokambarotra misy ny fakna am-bavany ireo gadra politika. 
Amin'ny allan'ny valin'ny taratasy, voarara izao ny kaonty mitondra ireo doka ireo. Mandika ny Fifanarahan'ny 
Firenena Mikambana manohitra ny fampijaliana ireo lahatsarin'ny fijoroana vavolombelona an-tery ireo. Misaotra 
anareo @Google[28] noho ny fanohanana an'i Belarosia. pic.twitter .com/qJITO19o2z[29]; 
 — Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya (@Tsihanouskaya) Janoary 3, 2022[30] 
 Tao anatin' ilay taratasy[31], nilaza i Bhatia fa nesorin'i Google ireo doka voasokajy ho 'fanitsakitsahana ny 
politikanay' ary 'nametra ny kaonty dokambarotra tompon'andraikitra tsy handefa dokambarotra intsony'. 
Nohamafisin'ilay sehatra ihany koa fa 'tsy hiseho amin'ny' YouTube izay doka vaovao rehetra mifandray amin'ny 
horonantsary voarara na pejy itodiana. 
 Araka ny voalazan'ny fikambanana mpiaro ny zon'olombelona Viasna 96, misy olona miisa 968 amin'izao fotoana 
izao no[32] voasokajy ho gadra politika ao Belarosia, ary mitombo hatrany izany isa izany. Vokatry ny fanenjehana 
heloka bevava misy antony politika mifandraika amin'ny korontana mitohy taorian'ny fifidianana filoham-pirenena sy 
ny hetsi-panoherana faobe tamin'ny volana Aogositra 2020 ny ankamaroan'ireo nogadraina na notanana. Maro 
amin'ireo no gadra politika malaza, anisan'izany ilay bilaogera sady mpanao gazety Ihar Losik sy Syarhey 
Tsikhanouski, kandid ho filoham-pirenena teo aloha sady vadin'i Tsikhanouskaya, izay vao haingana no nahazo[33] 
sazy an-tranomaizina maharitra. 
Nesorin'i Google ny doka YouTube ahitana ny famotopotorana ireo gadra politika Belarosiana
 MpanoratraTanya Lokot[34] NandikaLiva Andriamanantena[35]  Vakio ato ny lahatsoratra nadika [en][36] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://globalvoices.org 
/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/youtube-ga566ec41b_1280.jpg 
[ 
2]: 
https://pixabay.com/ro/photos/youtube-iphone-smartphone-mobil-2617510/ [ 3]: https://pixabay.com/service/license/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://twitter.com/TadeuszGiczan/status/1397200848145559552 
[ 
5]: 
https://t.co/suFn3ISdPi 
[ 
6]: 
https://twitter.com/TadeuszGiczan/status/1397200848145559552?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw [ 7]: https://t.co/suFn3ISdPi 
[ 8]: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0qAR6tFN7OksMRcoigEt3A/videos [ 9]: https://euvsdisinfo.eu/the-dirty-
side-of-advertising-forced-confessions-from-belarus-on-youtube/ [ 10]: https://globalvoices.org/2020/08/18/how-one-
telegram-channel-became-central-to-belarus-protests/ [ 11]: https://globalvoices.org/2021/05/23/belarus-grounds-
ryanair-flight-detains-independent-journalist-amid-regimes-crackdown-on-media/ 
[ 
12]: 
https://globalvoices.org/special/belarus-in-turmoil-2020/ 
[ 
13]: 
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/aug/12/belarus-opposition-leader-a-victim-of-tactics-from-the-lukashenko-
playbook 
[ 
14]: 
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/may/26/belarus-regime-uses-video-confessions-tool-
silence-dissent-raman-pratasevich [ 15]: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/may/26/belarus-regime-uses-
video-confessions-tool-silence-dissent-raman-pratasevich 
[ 
16]: 
https://tsikhanouskaya.org/ru/events/news/ba617c92c667366.html 
[ 
17]: 
https://prisoners.spring96.org/en/person/andrej-pazniak [ 18]: https://restofworld.org/2021/youtube-ads-belarus/ [ 
19]: 
https://support.google.com/adspolicy/answer/6015406?hl=en&ref_topic=1626336 
[ 
20]: 
https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/9288567?hl=en&ref_topic=6151248 
[ 
21]: 
https://tsikhanouskaya.org/ru/events/news/ba617c92c667366.html 
[ 
22]: 
https://tsikhanouskaya.org/ru/events/news/ba617c92c667366.html 
[ 
23]: 
https://twitter.com/Google?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw [ 24]: https://twitter.com/Google?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw [ 25]: 
https://t.co/qJITO19o2z 
[ 
26]: 
https://twitter.com/Tsihanouskaya/status/1478032221588140036?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw 
[ 
27]: 
https://twitter.com/Google?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw [ 28]: https://twitter.com/Google?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw [ 29]: 
https://t.co/qJITO19o2z 
[ 
30]: 
https://twitter.com/Tsihanouskaya/status/1478032221588140036?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw 
[ 
31]: 
https://twitter.com/Tsihanouskaya/status/1478032221588140036 [ 32]: https://prisoners.spring96.org/en [ 33]: 
https://www.rferl.org/a/belarus-losik-verdict-sentence/31607492.html [ 34]: https://globalvoices.org/author/tetyana-
lokot/ 
[ 
35]: 
https://mg.globalvoices.org/author/liva-andriamanantena/ 
[ 
36]: 
https://globalvoices.org/2022/01/04/google-removes-youtube-ads-featuring-interrogations-of-belarusian-political-
prisoners/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 10, 2022
End of Document
Allegiant's Turn Toward Boeing Isn't as Dramatic As You Might Think
Allegiant's Turn Toward Boeing Isn't as Dramatic As You Might Think
Newstex Blogs 
The Cranky Flier
January 10, 2022 Monday 12:00 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1161 words
Byline: CF
Body
Jan 10, 2022( The Cranky Flier: http://www.crankyflier.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Allegiant and Boeing announced last week that the airline would buy 50 737 MAX aircraft[1] with options for 
another 50. On the surface, this sounds crazy since Allegiant is an Airbus operator that generally prefers to acquire 
used aircraft. But this isn't crazy; it's just a further continuation of Allegiant's strategy to take advantage of good 
opportunities when they arise. 
According to ch-aviation[2], Allegiant today has 35 A319s and 86 A320s in the fleet. The A319s might seem like a 
bad airplane for a low-cost operator, but these are special A319s that have two over-wing exits on each side and 
consequently can hold 156 seats. The A320s come in two flavors 27 of them have 177 seats while the rest are at 
186. Thirteen of the A320s came factory fresh from Airbus while the rest were all second-hand. 
Allegiant likes the A320s, and in fact, on a call last week it said it actually has placeholders in its fleet plan for an 
additional 22 that it expects to pick up on the used market. The A319s, well, it likes to consider those a swing fleet. 
It may very well retire them in 2025, or it might not if there is opportunity. 
As CEO Maury Gallagher explained on that call, Allegiant is planning for a 10 percent growth rate per year through 
the end of the decade, getting the airline into the 250 fleet range. According to Maury, there just isn't a way to get 
enough aircraft on the used market to make that happen. After all, Allegiant won't just take any airplane. It needs 
something that fits the fleet well. 
Enter Boeing, a company that has had a rough go of it for, um, well, for a long time. This year the MAX has proven 
itself as a reliable and safe airplane, and Boeing has sold a decent number of aircraft. But the manufacturer just 
recently lost two high-profile deals to Airbus at Qantas and KLM, both of which operate Boeing narrowbodies today. 
Boeing needed a win, and this was a great opportunity to get it. 
Allegiant will take 30 of the MAX 7 aircraft and 20 of the MAX 8 200 planes which were purpose-built for Ryanair to 
be able to cram more seats into the airframe. The MAX 7 may seem like an odd choice until you realize what 
Allegiant's Turn Toward Boeing Isn't as Dramatic As You Might Think
Allegiant will do with them. The airline is planning for a remarkable 173 seats onboard. Southwest, for comparison, 
is planning for only 150. 
With 173 seats, the economics of that airplane become very good. Of course, it can't beat the seat costs of putting 
200 seats on the MAX 200, but look at this from Allegiant's presentation[3]. 
In this configuration, seat costs per departure are about $10 below what they would be in Southwest's configuration. 
Think about it another way. Including ownership costs, the MAX 7 will be cheaper to run on a per seat basis than 
the A320. That is pretty fantastic. 
This, naturally, means Allegiant got an incredible deal on the airplane, and that is no surprise considering how much 
of a win Boeing needed. From Allegiant's perspective, it could get a cheap, efficient airplane and it could get it soon. 
First deliveries are in June of next year. Even if it could get a good deal on the neo family from Airbus, which it 
probably couldn't, there aren't delivery slots to get Allegiant the airplanes it needs when it needs them. 
What about the A220? That was in the mix, but there are a couple issues. First and probably most important, 
Allegiant wants to be able to go bigger. While an A220-500 might get built, it won't happen soon enough for 
Allegiant's needs. And by the way, putting 173 seats on the MAX 7 makes it easily competitive with the A220 
anyway. The other A220 concern, according to Allegiant, is low spare parts coverage. 
So, with the right ownership costs, the MAX starts to look pretty good to Allegiant. But wait, there's more. Mentioned 
multiple times on the call last week was the engine commonality. Allegiant has CFM engines on its Airbus fleet, and 
it will also have CFM engines on the Boeing fleet. (The A220s is Pratt-powered.) I have little doubt that Boeing sat 
on GE/CFM to help sweeten the pot. Allegiant noted that it will receive 'enhanced' support on its existing engines as 
part of this deal. Just call that the cherry on top of the sundae. 
Still, I know many will have trouble getting over the idea that two fleet types adds complexity and is costly. But it's 
really not when you have fleets this big. Further, Allegiant's unique network strategy makes it even less problematic. 
Allegiant has its big bases in places like Las Vegas and Orlando/Sanford, but it also has small bases scattered 
around the country in places like Des Moines, Grand Rapids, and Knoxville. While it had about a third of its flying 
from those small bases in 2019, that has climbed to nearly half in 2022. And Allegiant thinks of those like mini-
airlines. 
The airplanes and crews start every day in each base and finish their days there as well, sleeping in their own beds. 
This self-contained operation means Allegiant can create Boeing bases and Airbus bases and not have to duplicate 
spare parts, etc in those smaller markets. That's yet another reason Allegiant can do this without much trouble. 
For Allegiant to get all these airplanes for cheap along with engine support on the entire fleet means the airline can 
easily fulfill its growth plan with less hassle. This is a great coup for the airline. It's also a big win for Boeing to finally 
get a sale of the MAX at one of the US ULCCs, so everyone should be happy. 
 [ 1]: https://ir.allegiantair.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allegiant-announces-purchase-50-boeing-737-
aircraft 
[ 
2]: 
http://ch-aviation.com 
[ 
3]: 
https://sec.report/Document/0001362468-22-
000002/a1622fleetdeckvfinal.htm 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
Allegiant's Turn Toward Boeing Isn't as Dramatic As You Might Think
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 10, 2022
End of Document
Mackenzie Financial Corp Has $17.62 Million Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Mackenzie Financial Corp Has $17.62 Million Stock Position in Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Watchlist News
January 9, 2022 Sunday 1:30 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1036 words
Body
Jan 09, 2022( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Mackenzie Financial Corp boosted its holdings in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 35.6% 
during the 3rd quarter, Holdings Channel[1] reports. The institutional investor owned 160,071 shares of the 
transportation company's stock after buying an additional 42,000 shares during the period. Mackenzie Financial 
Corp's holdings in Ryanair were worth $17,617,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
 A number of other large investors have also bought and sold shares of the stock. Profund Advisors LLC raised its 
position in Ryanair by 2.7% during the second quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $486,000 after buying an additional 117 shares during the period. 
Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC raised its position in Ryanair by 1.2% during the 
second quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $1,318,000 after buying an additional 144 shares during the period. Atria 
Investments LLC grew its stake in Ryanair by 1.0% in the second quarter. Atria Investments LLC now owns 14,744 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,595,000 after purchasing an additional 148 shares in the 
last quarter. M&T Bank Corp grew its stake in Ryanair by 5.3% in the third quarter. M&T Bank Corp now owns 
3,115 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $343,000 after purchasing an additional 156 shares in 
the last quarter. Finally, Private Advisor Group LLC grew its stake in Ryanair by 6.9% in the second quarter. Private 
Advisor Group LLC now owns 2,535 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $274,000 after 
purchasing an additional 163 shares in the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and 
other institutional investors.  
RYAAY[2] opened at $115.99 on Friday. The company has a market cap of $26.29 billion, a PE ratio of -32.95 and 
a beta of 1.58. The stock has a 50-day moving average of $107.11 and a 200-day moving average of $108.53. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week high of $127.25. The company has a debt-to-
equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34.  
 Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). 
Mackenzie Financial Corp Has $17.62 Million Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The business had 
revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. On average, research 
analysts predict that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
A number of research analysts have commented on the company. JPMorgan Chase & Co. restated a 'neutral' rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft restated a 
'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded 
Ryanair from an 'outperform' rating to a 'market perform' rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. UBS 
Group restated a 'neutral' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Finally, 
Raymond James lowered their target price on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an 'outperform' rating on 
the stock in a research note on Monday, November 29th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with 
a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat.com, the 
company currently has a consensus rating of 'Buy' and a consensus target price of $122.08. 
 About Ryanair 
 Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
 Featured Story: Tariff[3] 
 Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Receive News & Ratings for Ryanair Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[5]. 
 [ 1]: http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-a-tariff/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-
basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY&c=Ryanair 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 9, 2022
End of Document
Russell Investments Group Ltd. Acquires 26,598 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Russell Investments Group Ltd. Acquires 26,598 Shares of Ryanair Holdings 
plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 9, 2022 Sunday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 722 words
Body
Ryanair Russell Investments Group Ltd. raised its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 12.6% in 
the third quarter, according to its most recent 13F filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The firm 
owned 236,911 shares of the transportation company's stock after purchasing an additional 26,598 shares during 
the period. Russell Investments Group Ltd. owned approximately 0.10% of Ryanair worth $26,319,000 at the end of 
the most recent quarter.  
A number of other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also bought and sold shares of RYAAY. 
Lazard Asset Management LLC boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 6.3% in the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after 
purchasing an additional 296,366 shares during the period.  Capital International Investors boosted its holdings in  
Ryanair by 3.1% in the 2nd quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares during the period.  
William Blair Investment Management LLC raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 14.3% in the 2nd quarter. 
William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $243,862,000 after buying an additional 281,774 shares in the last quarter.  Pendal Group Ltd acquired a 
new position in shares of  Ryanair in the 3rd quarter valued at approximately $30,945,000.  Finally, Baillie Gifford & 
Co. raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 2.5% in the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,186,170,000 after buying an additional 264,133 shares in 
the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $115.99 on Friday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 
1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The firm has a market cap of $26.29 billion, a P/E ratio of -32.95 and a beta of 1.58. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of $127.25. The firm's fifty day moving 
average is $107.11 and its 200-day moving average is $108.53.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 EPS for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). 
The firm had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion. Ryanair 
had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%.  As a group, sell-side analysts 
anticipate that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current year.  
Russell Investments Group Ltd. Acquires 26,598 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
RYAAY has been the subject of several analyst reports. Barclays  restated an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  restated a "buy" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. UBS Group  restated a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Sanford C. Bernstein cut shares of Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Finally, 
Morgan Stanley  reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 
2nd. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to 
the company. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the company  has an average rating of "Buy" and an 
average price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: Basic Economics creates winners and losers 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: January 9, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Acquired by Mackenzie Financial Corp
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Acquired by Mackenzie 
Financial Corp
American Banking and Market News
January 9, 2022 Sunday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 726 words
Body
Ryanair Mackenzie Financial Corp grew its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 35.6% in the 3rd 
quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm owned 
160,071 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 42,000 shares during the 
quarter. Mackenzie Financial Corp owned about 0.07% of Ryanair worth $17,617,000 at the end of the most recent 
reporting period.  
Several other hedge funds have also recently bought and sold shares of the company. Profund Advisors LLC 
boosted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 2.7% in the second quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $486,000 after acquiring an additional 117 shares during the 
period.  Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 1.2% 
during the second quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares 
of the transportation company's stock worth $1,318,000 after purchasing an additional 144 shares during the last 
quarter.  Atria Investments LLC raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 1.0% during the second quarter. Atria 
Investments LLC now owns 14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,595,000 after purchasing 
an additional 148 shares during the last quarter.  M&T Bank Corp raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 5.3% 
during the third quarter. M&T Bank Corp now owns 3,115 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$343,000 after purchasing an additional 156 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Private Advisor Group LLC 
raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 6.9% during the second quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC now owns 
2,535 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $274,000 after purchasing an additional 163 shares 
during the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Several research firms have recently commented on RYAAY. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. Raymond James cut 
their price objective on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a 
research report on Monday, November 29th. UBS Group  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Barclays  reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with 
a hold rating and twelve have issued  a buy rating to the company. Based on data from MarketBeat, the stock 
presently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.08. 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Acquired by Mackenzie Financial Corp
Shares of NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $115.99 on Friday. The stock's 50-day moving average price is $107.11 
and its two-hundred day moving average price is $108.53. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 
1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-month high of 
$127.25. The firm has a market cap of $26.29 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.95 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 
by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The business 
had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion.  As a group, 
research analysts forecast that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: What are the risks of holding treasury bonds? 
Load-Date: January 9, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Acquired by Mackenzie Financial Corp
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Acquired by Mackenzie 
Financial Corp
American Banking and Market News
January 9, 2022 Sunday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 726 words
Body
Ryanair Mackenzie Financial Corp grew its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 35.6% in the 3rd 
quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm owned 
160,071 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 42,000 shares during the 
quarter. Mackenzie Financial Corp owned about 0.07% of Ryanair worth $17,617,000 at the end of the most recent 
reporting period.  
Several other hedge funds have also recently bought and sold shares of the company. Profund Advisors LLC 
boosted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 2.7% in the second quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $486,000 after acquiring an additional 117 shares during the 
period.  Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 1.2% 
during the second quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares 
of the transportation company's stock worth $1,318,000 after purchasing an additional 144 shares during the last 
quarter.  Atria Investments LLC raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 1.0% during the second quarter. Atria 
Investments LLC now owns 14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,595,000 after purchasing 
an additional 148 shares during the last quarter.  M&T Bank Corp raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 5.3% 
during the third quarter. M&T Bank Corp now owns 3,115 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$343,000 after purchasing an additional 156 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Private Advisor Group LLC 
raised its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 6.9% during the second quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC now owns 
2,535 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $274,000 after purchasing an additional 163 shares 
during the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Several research firms have recently commented on RYAAY. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. Raymond James cut 
their price objective on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a 
research report on Monday, November 29th. UBS Group  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Barclays  reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with 
a hold rating and twelve have issued  a buy rating to the company. Based on data from MarketBeat, the stock 
presently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.08. 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Acquired by Mackenzie Financial Corp
Shares of NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $115.99 on Friday. The stock's 50-day moving average price is $107.11 
and its two-hundred day moving average price is $108.53. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 
1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-month high of 
$127.25. The firm has a market cap of $26.29 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.95 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 
by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The business 
had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion.  As a group, 
research analysts forecast that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: What are the risks of holding treasury bonds? 
Load-Date: January 9, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Acquired by Mackenzie Financial Corp
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Acquired by Mackenzie 
Financial Corp
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
January 9, 2022 Sunday 1:07 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 967 words
Body
Jan 09, 2022( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Mackenzie Financial Corp grew its position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 35.6% in the 3rd quarter, 
according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm owned 160,071 
shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 42,000 shares during the quarter. 
Mackenzie Financial Corp owned about 0.07% of Ryanair worth $17,617,000 at the end of the most recent 
reporting period.  
Several other hedge funds have also recently bought and sold shares of the company. Profund Advisors LLC 
boosted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 2.7% in the second quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $486,000 after acquiring an additional 117 shares during the 
period. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair by 1.2% 
during the second quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares 
of the transportation company's stock worth $1,318,000 after purchasing an additional 144 shares during the last 
quarter. Atria Investments LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair by 1.0% during the second quarter. Atria 
Investments LLC now owns 14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,595,000 after purchasing 
an additional 148 shares during the last quarter. M&T Bank Corp raised its stake in shares of Ryanair by 5.3% 
during the third quarter. M&T Bank Corp now owns 3,115 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$343,000 after purchasing an additional 156 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Private Advisor Group LLC 
raised its stake in shares of Ryanair by 6.9% during the second quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC now owns 
2,535 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $274,000 after purchasing an additional 163 shares 
during the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Several research firms have recently commented on RYAAY. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. Raymond James cut 
their price objective on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a 
research report on Monday, November 29th. UBS Group reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Barclays reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co. reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Acquired by Mackenzie Financial Corp
a hold rating and twelve have issued a buy rating to the company. Based on data from MarketBeat, the stock 
presently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.08. 
Shares of NASDAQ:RYAAY[1] opened at $115.99 on Friday. The stock's 50-day moving average price is $107.11 
and its two-hundred day moving average price is $108.53. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 
1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-month high of 
$127.25. The firm has a market cap of $26.29 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.95 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus estimates of $1.80 
by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The business 
had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. As a group, research 
analysts forecast that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current fiscal year.  
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: What are the risks of holding treasury bonds?[2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/what-are-treasury-bonds/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 9, 2022
End of Document
Hosking Partners LLP Decreases Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Hosking Partners LLP Decreases Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
January 8, 2022 Saturday 2:15 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 961 words
Body
Jan 07, 2022( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Hosking Partners LLP reduced its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 18.3% during the 
third quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The firm owned 387,592 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 86,766 shares during the 
quarter. Ryanair makes up about 1.1% of Hosking Partners LLP's holdings, making the stock its 25th biggest 
holding. Hosking Partners LLP owned about 0.17% of Ryanair worth $42,658,000 as of its most recent filing with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
Other institutional investors also recently modified their holdings of the company. TPI Fund Managers Ltd lifted its 
stake in Ryanair by 1.7% during the 3rd quarter. TPI Fund Managers Ltd now owns 67,723 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $7,454,000 after acquiring an additional 1,158 shares during the period. 
JustInvest LLC boosted its position in shares of Ryanair by 34.8% during the 3rd quarter. JustInvest LLC now owns 
3,394 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $374,000 after acquiring an additional 876 shares 
during the last quarter. JFS Wealth Advisors LLC bought a new position in shares of Ryanair during the 3rd quarter 
valued at approximately $47,000. Mackenzie Financial Corp lifted its position in Ryanair by 35.6% in the third 
quarter. Mackenzie Financial Corp now owns 160,071 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$17,617,000 after buying an additional 42,000 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Russell Investments Group 
Ltd. lifted its position in Ryanair by 12.6% in the third quarter. Russell Investments Group Ltd. now owns 236,911 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $26,319,000 after buying an additional 26,598 shares during the 
last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Ryanair stock[1] traded up $1.29 during mid-day trading on Friday, hitting $112.89. 2,854 shares of the company's 
stock were exchanged, compared to its average volume of 340,029. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a 
quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The stock has a market cap of $25.58 billion, a P/E ratio of -
31.70 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $94.68 and a 1-year high of $127.25. The stock 
has a 50 day moving average of $107.06 and a two-hundred day moving average of $108.52.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters' consensus 
estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). The business had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst 
Hosking Partners LLP Decreases Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
estimates of $2.34 billion. Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. 
As a group, research analysts predict that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of research analyst reports. UBS Group restated a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft restated a 
"buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Barclays reissued an "overweight" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. Finally, Credit 
Suisse Group reissued an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Five 
investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the company. 
According to MarketBeat, the stock currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of 
$122.08. 
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: What economic reports are most valuable to investors?[2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/economic-
reports/upcoming/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 7, 2022
End of Document
Hosking Partners LLP Sells 86,766 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Hosking Partners LLP Sells 86,766 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
January 8, 2022 Saturday 4:06 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 948 words
Body
Jan 07, 2022( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Hosking Partners LLP reduced its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 18.3% in the 
third quarter, HoldingsChannel[1] reports. The institutional investor owned 387,592 shares of the transportation 
company's stock after selling 86,766 shares during the quarter. Ryanair makes up approximately 1.1% of Hosking 
Partners LLP's holdings, making the stock its 25th biggest holding. Hosking Partners LLP's holdings in Ryanair 
were worth $42,658,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
Other hedge funds and other institutional investors also recently modified their holdings of the company. Advisory 
Services Network LLC purchased a new stake in Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at about $46,000. JFS 
Wealth Advisors LLC purchased a new stake in Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at about $47,000. Rockefeller 
Capital Management L.P. grew its position in Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital 
Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after purchasing 
an additional 463 shares during the last quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. grew its position in Ryanair by 
106.8% during the 3rd quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. now owns 1,729 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $192,000 after purchasing an additional 893 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Park 
Avenue Securities LLC purchased a new stake in Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at about $223,000. 
Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
Shares of RYAAY stock[2] traded up $1.29 during midday trading on Friday, hitting $112.89. The company had a 
trading volume of 2,854 shares, compared to its average volume of 340,029. The company's 50 day simple moving 
average is $107.06 and its 200 day simple moving average is $108.52. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of 
$94.68 and a 52-week high of $127.25. The stock has a market cap of $25.58 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -
31.70 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 
1.34.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The business had 
revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion. Analysts anticipate 
that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 EPS for the current year.  
Hosking Partners LLP Sells 86,766 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
A number of equities analysts recently issued reports on the stock. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reissued a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Credit Suisse Group reissued an "outperform" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Morgan Stanley reaffirmed an "overweight" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. UBS Group reissued a "neutral" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Finally, Raymond James decreased their 
price objective on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a report on 
Monday, November 29th. Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued a 
buy rating to the company. Based on data from MarketBeat.com, the company currently has a consensus rating of 
"Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: How to invest using market indexes[3] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 
1]: 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/market-indexes/ [ 4]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 8, 2022
End of Document
TPI Fund Managers Ltd Raises Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
TPI Fund Managers Ltd Raises Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
January 8, 2022 Saturday 4:05 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 922 words
Body
Jan 08, 2022( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 TPI Fund Managers Ltd raised its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 1.7% during the 
3rd quarter, Holdings Channel[1] reports. The fund owned 67,723 shares of the transportation company's stock 
after purchasing an additional 1,158 shares during the period. TPI Fund Managers Ltd's holdings in Ryanair were 
worth $7,454,000 at the end of the most recent reporting period.  
Other institutional investors and hedge funds have also recently modified their holdings of the company. Geode 
Capital Management LLC raised its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 3.0% during the 2nd quarter. Geode Capital 
Management LLC now owns 98,369 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $10,644,000 after 
acquiring an additional 2,890 shares in the last quarter. Plaisance Capital LLC purchased a new stake in Ryanair 
during the 2nd quarter valued at $2,857,000. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC raised its holdings in Ryanair by 
9.5% during the 3rd quarter. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $245,000 after buying an additional 193 shares during the period. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC raised its holdings in Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after buying an 
additional 296,366 shares during the period. Finally, Ninety One UK Ltd purchased a new stake in Ryanair during 
the 2nd quarter valued at $2,414,000. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge 
funds.  
Several analysts recently weighed in on the company. Oddo Bhf lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Credit Suisse Group reaffirmed an "outperform" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Barclays reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Morgan Stanley reaffirmed an "overweight" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, UBS Group reaffirmed a 
"neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Five investment analysts 
have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the company's stock. According to 
data from MarketBeat.com, the company currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of 
$122.08. 
Ryanair stock[2] opened at $111.60 on Friday. The stock has a 50-day moving average of $107.06 and a two-
hundred day moving average of $108.52. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and 
TPI Fund Managers Ltd Raises Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
a current ratio of 1.34. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $94.68 and a one year high of $127.25. The 
stock has a market cap of $25.29 billion, a PE ratio of -31.70 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the consensus estimate of 
$1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%. The firm 
had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion. As a group, sell-
side analysts predict that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: What Is an EV Stock[3] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 
1]: 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/types-of-stock/electric-vehicle-stocks/ [ 4]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 8, 2022
End of Document
Hosking Partners LLP Decreases Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Hosking Partners LLP Decreases Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 7, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 722 words
Body
Ryanair Hosking Partners LLP reduced its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 18.3% 
during the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. The firm owned 387,592 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 86,766 shares 
during the quarter. Ryanair makes up  about  1.1% of Hosking Partners LLP's holdings, making the stock its 25th 
biggest holding. Hosking Partners LLP owned about 0.17% of Ryanair worth $42,658,000 as of its most recent filing 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
Other institutional investors also recently modified their holdings of the company. TPI Fund Managers Ltd lifted its 
stake in  Ryanair by 1.7% during the 3rd quarter. TPI Fund Managers Ltd now owns 67,723 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $7,454,000 after acquiring an additional 1,158 shares during the period.  
JustInvest LLC boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 34.8% during the 3rd quarter. JustInvest LLC now owns 
3,394 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $374,000 after acquiring an additional 876 shares 
during the last quarter.  JFS Wealth Advisors LLC bought a new position in shares of  Ryanair during the 3rd 
quarter valued at approximately $47,000.  Mackenzie Financial Corp lifted its position in  Ryanair by 35.6% in the 
third quarter. Mackenzie Financial Corp now owns 160,071 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$17,617,000 after buying an additional 42,000 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Russell Investments Group 
Ltd. lifted its position in  Ryanair by 12.6% in the third quarter. Russell Investments Group Ltd. now owns 236,911 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $26,319,000 after buying an additional 26,598 shares during the 
last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
Ryanair stock  traded up $1.29 during mid-day trading on Friday, hitting $112.89. 2,854 shares of the company's 
stock were exchanged, compared to its average volume of 340,029. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a 
quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The stock has a market cap of $25.58 billion, a P/E ratio of -
31.70 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $94.68 and a 1-year high of $127.25. The stock 
has a 50 day moving average of $107.06 and a two-hundred day moving average of $108.52.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters' consensus 
estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). The business had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst 
estimates of $2.34 billion. Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%.  
As a group, research analysts predict that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
Hosking Partners LLP Decreases Stock Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of research analyst reports. UBS Group  restated a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  restated a 
"buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Barclays  reissued an "overweight" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. Finally, Credit 
Suisse Group  reissued an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Five 
investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the company. 
According to MarketBeat, the stock currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of 
$122.08. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: What economic reports are most valuable to investors? 
Load-Date: January 8, 2022
End of Document
Tesco Pension Investment Ltd Sells 75,352 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Tesco Pension Investment Ltd Sells 75,352 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 7, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 732 words
Body
Ryanair Tesco Pension Investment Ltd reduced its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 16.2% in 
the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). The institutional investor  owned 388,562 shares of the transportation company's stock after 
selling 75,352 shares during the period. Tesco Pension Investment Ltd owned 0.17% of Ryanair worth $42,765,000 
at the end of the most recent reporting period.  
A number of other hedge funds also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC increased its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 6.3% during the second quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after 
purchasing an additional 296,366 shares in the last quarter.  Capital International Investors increased its stake in 
shares of  Ryanair by 3.1% during the second quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares 
of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares in 
the last quarter.  William Blair Investment Management LLC increased its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 14.3% 
during the second quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $243,862,000 after purchasing an additional 281,774 shares in the last 
quarter.  Pendal Group Ltd bought a new position in shares of  Ryanair during the third quarter valued at 
approximately $30,945,000.  Finally, Baillie Gifford & Co. increased its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 2.5% during 
the third quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$1,186,170,000 after purchasing an additional 264,133 shares in the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is owned by 
institutional investors.  
A number of equities analysts have weighed in on the stock. UBS Group  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reissued a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Credit Suisse Group  reissued an "outperform" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair 
from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Morgan Stanley  
reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Five 
research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued  a buy rating to the company's 
stock. Based on data from MarketBeat, Ryanair currently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average price 
target of $122.08. 
Tesco Pension Investment Ltd Sells 75,352 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Shares of Ryanair stock  opened at $111.60 on Friday. The company's fifty day simple moving average is $107.06 
and its 200-day simple moving average is $108.52. The stock has a market capitalization of $25.29 billion, a PE 
ratio of -31.70 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $94.68 and a 1-year high of $127.25. 
The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters' consensus estimate of 
$1.80 by ($0.64). The business had revenue of $2.10 billion for the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of 
$2.34 billion. Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 25.41%.  As a group, 
research analysts anticipate that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 EPS for the current year.  
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: What is the Current Ratio? 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: January 8, 2022
End of Document
Hosking Partners LLP Sells 86,766 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Hosking Partners LLP Sells 86,766 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 7, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 697 words
Body
Ryanair Hosking Partners LLP reduced its position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 18.3% 
in the third quarter, HoldingsChannel  reports. The institutional investor  owned 387,592 shares of the transportation 
company's stock after selling 86,766 shares during the quarter. Ryanair makes up  approximately  1.1% of Hosking 
Partners LLP's holdings, making the stock its 25th biggest holding. Hosking Partners LLP's holdings in Ryanair 
were worth $42,658,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
Other hedge funds and other institutional investors also recently modified their holdings of the company. Advisory 
Services Network LLC purchased a new stake in  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at about $46,000.  JFS 
Wealth Advisors LLC purchased a new stake in  Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at about $47,000.  
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. grew its position in  Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller 
Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after 
purchasing an additional 463 shares during the last quarter.  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. grew its position in  
Ryanair by 106.8% during the 3rd quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. now owns 1,729 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $192,000 after purchasing an additional 893 shares during the last 
quarter.  Finally, Park Avenue Securities LLC purchased a new stake in  Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at 
about $223,000. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
Shares of RYAAY stock  traded up $1.29 during midday trading on Friday, hitting $112.89. The company had a 
trading volume of 2,854 shares, compared to its average volume of 340,029. The company's 50 day simple moving 
average is $107.06 and its 200 day simple moving average is $108.52. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of 
$94.68 and a 52-week high of $127.25. The stock has a market cap of $25.58 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -
31.70 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 
1.34.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last posted its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The business had 
revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 billion.  Analysts anticipate 
that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 EPS for the current year.  
A number of equities analysts recently issued reports on the stock. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reissued a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Credit Suisse Group  reissued an "outperform" 
Hosking Partners LLP Sells 86,766 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Morgan Stanley  reaffirmed an "overweight" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. UBS Group  reissued a "neutral" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Finally, Raymond James decreased their 
price objective on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a report on 
Monday, November 29th. Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued  
a buy rating to the company. Based on data from MarketBeat.com, the company currently has a consensus rating 
of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: How to invest using market indexes 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: January 7, 2022
End of Document
TPI Fund Managers Ltd Acquires 1,158 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
TPI Fund Managers Ltd Acquires 1,158 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
January 7, 2022 Friday
Copyright 2022 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 669 words
Body
Ryanair TPI Fund Managers Ltd boosted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
1.7% during the third quarter, according to its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC). The fund owned 67,723 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 1,158 
shares during the quarter. TPI Fund Managers Ltd's holdings in Ryanair were worth $7,454,000 at the end of the 
most recent quarter.  
A number of other institutional investors and hedge funds have also bought and sold shares of RYAAY. Geode 
Capital Management LLC lifted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 3.0% in the 2nd quarter. Geode Capital 
Management LLC now owns 98,369 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $10,644,000 after 
purchasing an additional 2,890 shares during the period.  Plaisance Capital LLC acquired a new position in shares 
of  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at $2,857,000.  Harbor Investment Advisory LLC lifted its position in 
shares of  Ryanair by 9.5% during the 3rd quarter. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $245,000 after acquiring an additional 193 shares during the period.  
Lazard Asset Management LLC lifted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard 
Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 
after acquiring an additional 296,366 shares during the period.  Finally, Ninety One UK Ltd acquired a new position 
in shares of  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at $2,414,000. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by hedge 
funds and other institutional investors.  
RYAAY has been the topic of several research reports. Raymond James lowered their price objective on shares of 
Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on the stock in a report on Monday, November 
29th. Oddo Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on 
Monday, November 15th. UBS Group  restated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, 
September 28th. Barclays  restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 
2nd. Finally, Peel Hunt upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Friday, 
September 17th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have given a 
buy rating to the stock. Based on data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and 
a consensus target price of $122.08. 
NASDAQ RYAAY  opened at $111.60 on Friday. The company has a market cap of $25.29 billion, a PE ratio of -
31.70 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of $127.25. The 
TPI Fund Managers Ltd Acquires 1,158 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The firm's 50-day simple 
moving average is $107.06 and its two-hundred day simple moving average is $108.52.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last announced its quarterly earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The 
transportation company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing analysts' consensus 
estimates of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative return on equity of 14.51% and a negative net margin of 
25.41%. The firm had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analysts' expectations of $2.34 
billion.  As a group, equities research analysts anticipate that  Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 EPS for the 
current year.  
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: How To Calculate Debt-to-Equity Ratio 
Load-Date: January 8, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair to close base at Germany 's Frankfurt Airport
Ryanair to close base at Germany's Frankfurt Airport
Associated Press Financial Wire
January 7, 2022 Friday 11:24 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 Associated Press All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS NEWS; INTERNATIONAL NEWS
Length: 141 words
Dateline: BERLIN 
Body
BERLIN (AP) — Budget airline Ryanair said Friday that it plans to stop serving Frankfurt Airport, Germany's 
busiest, at the end of March. and close its base there.
Ryanair said it is closing its base in Frankfurt and reallocating its five planes there to other airports that “have 
responded with lower airport charges to stimulate traffic recovery.”
The airline complained that instead of providing incentives as the aviation industry struggles with the fallout from the 
coronavirus pandemic, Frankfurt Airport “has chosen to increase prices even further, making Frankfurt 
uncompetitive with European airports.”
The Ireland-based company said that all Frankfurt-based flight crew “can secure alternative positions within the 
Ryanair network" and that passengers affected by cancellations would receive notifications and refunds “over the 
coming days.”
Load-Date: January 7, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair to shutter Frankfurt Am Main base over high airport fees
Ryanair to shutter Frankfurt Am Main base over high airport fees
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
January 7, 2022 Friday 3:09 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: GERMANY; Automotive, Transport and Logistics
Length: 247 words
Highlight: Low-cost carrier Ryanair has decided to shut its Frankfurt am Main base in March and move the five 
aircraft currently based there to airports with lower fees.
Body
The airline will stop all flights to and from Frankfurt Am Main from 31 March. This decision is said to be the result of 
rising airport fees at Frankfurt, making it uncompetitive with other European airports. 
Ryanair said that competitive airport fees play an important role in post-Covid traffic recovery and the hiked airport 
charges at Frankfurt do not support airlines. The carrier has informed all its pilots and cabin crew at the Frankfurt 
am Main base about the planned closure. All affected flight crew can get alternative roles within its network. The 
airline, however, stressed that it will keep investing in its German operations, which includes a $200m investment in 
a two aircraft base in Nuremberg. Ryanair Commercial director Jason McGuinness said: "We are disappointed to 
announce the closure of our Frankfurt am Main base at the end of March 2022, but we have no alternative in 
response to a decision from the airport to increase its airport fees, despite the collapse in traffic caused by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. "While Ryanair continues to invest in German airports who understand the requirement to 
lower airport charges to recover traffic, competition in the German market has been massively distorted by the 
(EURO)9bn of state aid that was pumped into Lufthansa, who continues to cut its fleet, connections and jobs." 
Furthermore, the carrier stated that it aims to achieve more growth across Europe this summer with its 65 new 
B737 8-200 'Gamechanger' aircraft.
Load-Date: January 23, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair to Shut Down Frankfurt Base by End of March
Ryanair to Shut Down Frankfurt Base by End of March
MT Newswires Live Briefs
January 7, 2022 Friday 6:33 AM EST
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 91 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) said Friday it will be closing its base in Frankfurt am Main on March 31 and moving the 
five aircraft based there to other airports. 
The low-cost carrier said said the decision was due to increased fees at Frankfurt airport, making it "uncompetitive" 
with other European airports.
All Ryanair flights to and from Frankfurt Am Main have been cancelled from March 31, the carrier said, adding that 
Frankfurt crews can seek alternative positions within the Ryanair network.
Price: 110.75, Change: -0.85, Percent Change: -0.76
Load-Date: January 7, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair gives up base at Frankfurt airport
Ryanair gives up base at Frankfurt airport
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
January 7, 2022 Friday 11:17 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 95 words
Dateline: Frankfurt (dpa) - 
Body
Europe's largest low-cost airline Ryanair is giving up its base at Frankfurt Airport, the company announced on 
Friday.
The five aircraft still stationed there will be redistributed to cheaper airports as of March 31, it said.
Ryanair gave as a reason for the decision the rise in take-off and landing fees at Germany's largest airport at the 
turn of the year.
Passengers with tickets already booked are to be notified in the coming days and receive refunds.
Ryanair said it is offering alternative positions for the affected crews within its rapidly growing European network.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Rachel More, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: January 7, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair gives up base at Frankfurt airport
Ryanair gives up base at Frankfurt airport
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
January 7, 2022 Friday 12:02 PM GMT
Copyright 2022 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 177 words
Byline: Christian Ebner in Frankfurt
Dateline: Frankfurt (dpa) - 
Body
Europe's largest low-cost airline Ryanair is giving up its base at Frankfurt Airport after five years, the company 
announced on Friday.
The five aircraft still stationed there will be redistributed to cheaper airports as of March 31, it said in a statement, 
giving as an example Nuremberg Airport, where two planes are to be based in future.
Ryanair said its decision was based on a rise in take-off and landing fees at Germany's largest airport at the turn of 
the year.
"Instead of giving Ryanair an incentive to stay and grow, Frankfurt has chosen to drive away traffic and jobs by 
increasing airport charges," the statement said.
Ryanair director of commercial Jason McGuiness also accused the German government of "massively" distorting 
competition with its 9-billion-euro bailout of Lufthansa in 2020.
Passengers impacted by the closure of the Frankfurt base are to be notified in the coming days and will receive 
refunds, Ryanair said.
The company also said it is offering alternative positions for the affected crews within its rapidly growing European 
network.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Rachel More, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: January 7, 2022
Ryanair gives up base at Frankfurt airport
End of Document
Ryanair to close base at Germany 's Frankfurt Airport
Ryanair to close base at Germany's Frankfurt Airport
Newstex Blogs 
MarketBeat
January 7, 2022 Friday 11:12 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 667 words
Body
Jan 07, 2022( MarketBeat: https://www.marketbeat.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 BERLIN (AP) — Budget airline Ryanair said Friday that it plans to stop serving Frankfurt Airport, Germany's 
busiest, at the end of March. and close its base there. 
 Ryanair said it is closing its base in Frankfurt and reallocating its five planes there to other airports that 'have 
responded with lower airport charges to stimulate traffic recovery.' 
 The airline complained that instead of providing incentives as the aviation industry struggles with the fallout from 
the coronavirus pandemic, Frankfurt Airport 'has chosen to increase prices even further, making Frankfurt 
uncompetitive with European airports.'  
 The Ireland-based company said that all Frankfurt-based flight crew 'can secure alternative positions within the 
Ryanair network" and that passengers affected by cancellations would receive notifications and refunds 'over the 
coming days.' 
7 Trucking Stocks That Are About to Go On a Roll[1] Americans are facing a historic supply chain crisis. The 
solutions are simple on the one hand and maddeningly complex on the other. And no industry embodies that 
complexity more than the trucking industry. Just getting the barges unloaded will not be enough. Those goods have 
to be transported to a final destination. 
 For that, we're going to need trucks. And those trucks will need drivers. According to the American Trucking 
Association (ATA), approximately 70% of consumer goods in the United States are transported by trucks. However, 
for a variety of reasons, the industry faces a shortage of qualified drivers. 
 How extreme is that shortage? The ATA estimates that the shortage of qualified truck drivers sits at over 50,000 
and continues to grow. In fact, it suggests that over 900,000 drivers are needed and there simply are not enough 
qualified drivers to meet that demand. 
 We're not going to see one million new drivers on the road by the end of the year. And even if we did, trucking 
companies will be a beneficiary as the industry rises to meet this moment. This also means that investors should be 
eyeing trucking stocks. And that's why we've prepared this special presentation which identifies seven trucking 
stocks that are excellent opportunities at this time. 
View the "7 Trucking Stocks That Are About to Go On a Roll"[2]. 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/slideshows/7-trucking-stocks-that-are-about-to-go-on-a-
roll/1.aspx?utm_source=BottomOfArticle&utm_medium=WebsiteInternal&utm_campaign=7-trucking-stocks-that-
are-about-to-go-on-a-roll [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/slideshows/7-trucking-stocks-that-are-about-to-go-on-a-
Ryanair to close base at Germany 's Frankfurt Airport
roll/1.aspx?utm_source=BottomOfArticle&utm_medium=WebsiteInternal&utm_campaign=7-trucking-stocks-that-
are-about-to-go-on-a-roll 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 7, 2022
End of Document
Airline Stock Roundup: ALGT's Boing 737MAX Order, GOL 's Rosy Traffic Post & More
Airline Stock Roundup: ALGT's Boing 737MAX Order, GOL's Rosy Traffic 
Post & More
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
January 7, 2022 Friday 12:05 AM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1393 words
Byline: Maharathi Basu
Body
Jan 06, 2022( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 In the past week,Allegiant Travel Company ALGT[1] dominated headlines as it entered into an agreement with The 
Boeing Company BA[2] to buy 50 new 737 MAX jets. Latin American carrier Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes GOL[3] 
also grabbed headlines owing to the 14.7% year-over-year increase in its December traffic as air-travel demand 
improves in the region. 
Despite the omicron variant of COVID-19 ravaging Europe, Ryanair Holdings' RYAAY[4] December traffic surged 
400% year over year. In the United States, the omicron variant is also creating havoc and ruining holiday travel 
plans. With crew members being affected in large numbers, airlines are grappling with staffing crisis. To combat the 
crisis, United Airlines UAL[5] is reportedly[6] offering triple pay to its pilots who pick up extra trips in January. 
Read the last Airline stock Roundup here[7]. Recap of the Latest Top Stories 1 Omicron-related staffing shortage 
coupled with bad weather conditions in parts of the United States have caused multiple flight cancellations in the 
United States since the Christmas Eve. Amid such a bleak scenario, United Airlines reached an agreement with its 
pilots' union, the Air Line Pilots Association, offering pilots higher pay to cover open trips. Pilots were offered three-
and-a-half times their pay for flying open trips between Dec 30 and Jan 3. Additionally, they are being offered thrice 
their pay for picking up trips between Jan 4 and Jan 29[8]. 
UAL currently carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can seethe complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) 
stocks here[9]. 
2. With air-travel demand improving, courtesy of increased vaccination, December traffic surged at Ryanair to 9.5 
million from 1.9 million in December 2020. Load factor (percentage of seats filled with passengers) in December 
2021 was 81% compared with 73% in December 2020. 
3. At Gol Linhas, December 2021 traffic rose 14.7% year over year. Capacity, measured in available seat 
kilometers, increased 13.4% year over year to 3.5 billion last month. Since traffic growth was more than capacity 
expansion, load factor improved 0.9 percentage points (p.p) to 81.9% last month. With steady improvement in travel 
demand, traffic climbed 10% year over year in 2021. In response to this uptick, Gol Linhas expanded its capacity 
7.5% in the year just went by. Load factor ascended 1.9 p.p to 82% in 2021. 
4. To modernize and expand its fleet, Allegiant Travel placed an order to Boeing for purchasing 50 new 737 MAX 
aircraft. Per the deal, Allegiant will buy the 737-7 and 737-8-200 models. The agreement allows ALGT to replace 
Airline Stock Roundup: ALGT's Boing 737MAX Order, GOL 's Rosy Traffic Post & More
the planes scheduled to retire while expanding the fleet simultaneously as it aims to achieve the projected 10% plus 
annual growth rate. 
Additionally, ALGT has options to purchase 50 additional aircraft. Allegiant intends to take delivery of an initial 
group of planes in 2023, with the remaining scheduled for 2024 and 2025. The deal with Boeing marks a shift in 
strategy for ALGT as far as its fleet is concerned. This is because it currently operates an all-airbus fleet. 
Performance The following table shows the price movement of the major airline players over the past week and 
during the last six months. 
Image Source: Zacks Investment Research 
The table above shows that majority of the airline stocks have traded in the green over the past week. However, the 
gains were muted in nature causing the NYSE ARCA Airline Index to increase marginally to $82.62. Over the past 
six months, the NYSE ARCA Airline Index has depreciated 15.1%. What's Next in the Airline Space? December 
traffic reports from some carriers are expected in the coming days. 
 Zacks Top 10 Stocks for 2022 
 In addition to the investment ideas discussed above, would you like to know about our 10 top picks for the entirety 
of 2022? 
 From inception in 2012 through November, the Zacks Top 10 Stocks gained an impressive +962.5% versus the 
S&P 500's +329.4%. Now our Director of Research is combing through 4,000 companies covered by the Zacks 
Rank to handpick the best 10 tickers to buy and hold. Don't miss your chance to get in on these stocks when they're 
released on January 3. Be First To New Top 10 Stocks  > >[10] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[11] The Boeing Company (BA): Free Stock Analysis Report[12] 
Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[13] United Airlines Holdings Inc (UAL): Free Stock 
Analysis Report[14] Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes S.A. (GOL): Free Stock Analysis Report[15] Allegiant Travel 
Company (ALGT): Free Stock Analysis Report[16] To read this article on Zacks.com click here.[17] Zacks 
Investment Research[18] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/ALGT 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/BA 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/GOL 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/UAL [ 6]: https://www.cnbc.com/2021/12/31/united-airlines-offers-pilots-triple-
pay-to-ease-omicron-flight-disruptions.html [ 7]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1845014/airline-stock-roundup-
ryaays-dim-fy22-traffic-view-flight-cancellations-more?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID01-txt-1845014 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1846556/united-airlines-ual-offers-staff-higher-pay-through-
january?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID02-txt-1846556 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/buy-
list/?ADID=zp_1link&ICID=zpi%20_1link 
[ 
10]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/4e87?add=2116&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_TOP10_ANALYSTBLOG_213_IND_01062022&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-
1848692 
[ 
11]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1848692 
[ 
12]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=BA&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTE
NT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1848692 [ 13]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1848692 [ 
14]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=UAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1848692 
[ 
15]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=GOL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1848692 
[ 
16]: 
Airline Stock Roundup: ALGT's Boing 737MAX Order, GOL 's Rosy Traffic Post & More
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=ALGT&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1848692 
[ 
17]: http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1848692/airline-stock-roundup-algt-s-boing-737max-order-gol-s-rosy-traffic-
post-more?cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1848692 [ 18]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 6, 2022
End of Document
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Grows Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Grows Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
January 6, 2022 Thursday 8:11 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 968 words
Body
Jan 06, 2022( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. raised its position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 7.1% during the third 
quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The 
institutional investor owned 14,216 shares of the transportation company's stock after purchasing an additional 946 
shares during the period. Daiwa Securities Group Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $1,565,000 at the end of the 
most recent reporting period.  
Other large investors have also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the company. Geode Capital 
Management LLC lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 3.0% in the 2nd quarter. Geode Capital Management LLC now 
owns 98,369 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $10,644,000 after purchasing an additional 
2,890 shares in the last quarter. Plaisance Capital LLC acquired a new position in shares of Ryanair during the 2nd 
quarter valued at about $2,857,000. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC increased its stake in shares of Ryanair by 
9.5% during the 3rd quarter. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $245,000 after acquiring an additional 193 shares during the last quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC increased its stake in shares of Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after 
acquiring an additional 296,366 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Ninety One UK Ltd acquired a new position 
in shares of Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at about $2,414,000. Institutional investors own 43.91% of the 
company's stock.  
Shares of NASDAQ:RYAAY[1] opened at $110.25 on Thursday. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current 
ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week 
high of $127.25. The company has a 50 day moving average of $107.04 and a two-hundred day moving average of 
$108.50. The company has a market capitalization of $24.98 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -31.32 and a beta of 
1.58.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its quarterly earnings data on Monday, November 1st. The transportation 
company reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Thomson Reuters' consensus 
estimate of $1.80 by ($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 
14.51%. The firm had revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to analyst estimates of $2.34 billion. On 
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Grows Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
average, equities analysts anticipate that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 earnings per share for the current 
year.  
RYAAY has been the subject of a number of research analyst reports. Raymond James dropped their price 
objective on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a 
research note on Monday, November 29th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. UBS Group reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. Finally, Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Five equities research analysts have 
rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued a buy rating to the stock. Based on data from 
MarketBeat.com, Ryanair currently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: What does an inverted yield curve signify? [2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/what-is-an-inverted-yield-curve/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 6, 2022
End of Document
Thursday papers: Boost for holidays as Covid travel tests scrapped
Thursday papers: Boost for holidays as Covid travel tests scrapped
Citywire
January 6, 2022 Thursday 3:15 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 799 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And Boris Johnson is being pressed to scrap £12bn tax rise amid cost-of-living crisis.
Body
Top stories
•
The Times: Britons planning winter breaks were given a boost yesterday as it was announced that strict 
rules designed to curb the spread of omicron will be scrapped tomorrow.
•
Financial Times: Boris Johnson has been challenged by a senior minister to scrap a planned £12bn tax 
rise, saying it could not be justified due to rising inflation and soaring energy bills.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Ken Griffin, a Chicago-based financier worth more than $21bn, has lost millions of 
pounds after shares in the owner of British Airways took off.
•
Financial Times: Pfizer and BioNTech are teaming up to develop a messenger RNA vaccine for shingles, 
competing with GlaxoSmithKline’s flagship vaccine for the painful disease.
•
Financial Times: Evergrande will hold an online meeting with renminbi-denominated bondholders this week 
as the heavily indebted Chinese developer seeks to delay more repayment deadlines and battles to 
complete its real estate projects.
Business and economics
•
The Times: Minutes from the US Federal Reserve’s most recent meeting, highlighting that America’s ‘very 
tight’ labour market could prompt the central bank to raise interest rates sooner than expected, sent 
markets sharply lower last night.
•
The Guardian: Booming electric car sales were a bright spot in a tough car market last year amid disruption 
to global supply chains hitting manufacturers, according to fresh data.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Supermarket chiefs have reasons to be cheerful going into 2022 after near-record 
spending over Christmas.
•
The Times: Strava, the online fitness tracking platform, said its revenue soared by more than two-thirds last 
year as it vied to power through the fleeting New Year surge in demand.
•
The Guardian: Sony has revealed plans to start an electric car company, making it the latest electronics 
manufacturer to target the automotive sector.
Thursday papers: Boost for holidays as Covid travel tests scrapped
•
Daily Mail: Bitcoin could hit $100,000 within five years if more investors see it as an alternative to gold, 
according to Goldman Sachs.
•
The Times: Ryanair is back to flying 84% of the number of passengers it was carrying before the 
pandemic, with its flight schedule last month almost as busy as it was in December 2019.
•
The Daily Telegraph: New products could push Apple towards a $4tn valuation, analysts and investors 
have predicted, after it became the first company to hit the $3tn mark this week.
•
The Daily Telegraph: NatWest is in talks with ministers over a rescue scheme for struggling energy 
companies as part of efforts to avoid a Treasury bailout.
•
The Times: A marketplace for non-fungible tokens has been valued at more than $13bn in a fundraising 
that highlights the surge of interest in unique digital items that can be traded online.
•
The Times: A record number of companies are planning to raise prices because of supply chain disruptions 
and increased raw material and energy costs, according to a poll from the British Chambers of Commerce.
•
The Daily Telegraph: More cargo ships laden with natural gas are being diverted away from China to 
Europe as traders look to cash in on an unprecedented surge in prices.
•
The Times: Mazars, one of Britain’s largest accountancy firms, has been fined £250,000 for failings in its 
audit of a local authority’s financial statements.
•
The Times: Standard Chartered is segregating its Hong Kong employees and telling them not to attend 
unnecessary parties in an attempt to slow the spread of Covid-19 and ensure business continuity.
Share tips, comment and bids
•
Daily Mail (Midas Share Tips for 2022): Our stockpicker selects three shares for the year ahead – Made 
Tech, Medica and model investment Hornby.
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): HOLD Admiral; HOLD DiscoverIE.
•
Daily Mail: AdvancedAdvt, which is run by entrepreneur Vin Murria, has snapped up a 9% stake in 
advertising group M&C Saatchi for £24m.
•
Daily Mail: London-listed gaming software provider Playtech and potential bidder JKO Play have asked 
Britain’s Takeover Panel for more time for the latter to firmly declare its intentions on any takeover offer.
•
The Times: Shares in Hornby rose more than 12% after the model railways and Scalextric maker 
announced Henry de Zoete as a non-executive director.
•
The Times: Stellantis, the Vauxhall and Peugeot van manufacturer, has signed a deal to provide 
commercial vehicles for Amazon, the world’s largest parcel delivery company.
•
The Times: Meta, the owner of Facebook, has appealed against the UK competition authority’s ruling that it 
must sell Giphy on six grounds.
•
Financial Times: Uniper, one of Germany’s biggest utilities, has been forced to seek €10bn of financing to 
avoid a cash crunch after slowing gas supplies from Russia to Europe caused prices to surge.
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): China’s zero-Covid strategy is stretched to breaking point ahead of winter 
Olympics.
Load-Date: January 6, 2022
End of Document
Easyjet , Ryanair , Tui Flights Face Delays Over Gatwick Airport Control Tower IT Issues
Easyjet, Ryanair, Tui Flights Face Delays Over Gatwick Airport Control 
Tower IT Issues
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
January 6, 2022 Thursday 6:05 AM EST
Copyright 2022 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 122 words
Body
 IT issues at the Gatwick Airport's air traffic control tower caused three incoming flights to be diverted while others 
were delayed, according to a Thursday morning Twitter statement from the airport.
An Easyjet (EZJ.L) flight was delayed by two hours. Other delayed flights include a Ryanair (RY4C.IR) flight from 
Dublin, Ireland, and a Tui (TUI.L) flight from Liberia, The Telegraph reported same-day.
The airport later said the issues had been resolved and flight arrivals and departures were continuing as normal, 
with some delays still expected.
Easyjet shares were up almost 2%, Ryanair was up more than 1% and Tui shares were up almost 1% in Thursday 
midday trading.
Price (GBP): £628.92, Change: £+12.32, Percent Change: +2.00%
Load-Date: January 6, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair passenger numbers take a hit after Christmas travel restrictions
Ryanair passenger numbers take a hit after Christmas travel restrictions
City A.M.
January 6, 2022 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2022 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 154 words
Byline: MICHIEL WILLEMS
Body
THE NUMBER of passengers flown around Europe by budget airline Ryanair was down seven per cent between 
November and December as travel restrictions were imposed amid the spread of the Omicron variant.
The carrier said the number of passengers dropped to 9.5m last month - the lowest since July and down from 
10.2m in November.
It ran 62,200 flights last month, with a load factor - a measure of how well an airline fills its planes - of 81 per cent, 
down from 86 per cent in November.
The group had warned over profits just before Christmas as it cut its passenger forecast for December and
January due to Omicron restrictions.
The group slashed its guidance for January by 33 per cent as restrictions were imposed on British passengers 
flying to Germany and France.
It slashed its full-year results guidance to a net loss of between (EURO)250m (£209 m) to (EURO)450m from a 
previous net loss range of between (EURO)100m to (EURO)200m.
Load-Date: January 6, 2022
End of Document
US 's Allegiant Air orders 50+50 B737 MAX
US's Allegiant Air orders 50+50 B737 MAX
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
January 05, 2022
Copyright 2022 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 396 words
Body
Allegiant Air (G4, Las Vegas Harry Reid) has placed an order with Boeing (BOE, Chicago O'Hare) for fifty B737 
MAX with options for another fifty, although it stressed it would not abandon its long-term strategy of sourcing 
second-hand Airbus narrowbodies.
The Nevada-based leisure specialist said the order was split between thirty B737-7s and twenty B737-8-200s. The 
initial batch of ten is scheduled to deliver in 2023, with the remainder due in 2024 (24) and 2025 (16).
"Our approach to fleet has always been opportunistic, and this exciting transaction with Boeing is no exception," the 
Chairman and Chief Executive of the parent holding Allegiant Travel, Maurice J. Gallagher, Jr., said.
Allegiant Air operates thirty-five A319-100s and eighty-five A320-200s, with a further eight A320s due for delivery. 
The vast majority of the aircraft were sourced from the second-hand market - only thirteen A320s were delivered 
directly from the manufacturer to Allegiant Air. The ultra-low-cost carrier has prided itself on identifying capital light 
deals for mid-life aircraft. In October 2020, the airline said it was "inundated" with offers for second-hand A320s as 
many carriers downsized their fleets during the pandemic.
Gallagher, Jr. underlined that Allegiant Air would not abandon this strategy despite the new order with Boeing.
"While the heart of our strategy continues to centre on previously-owned aircraft, the infusion of up to 100 direct-
from-the-manufacturer B737s will bring numerous benefits for the future - including flexibility for capacity growth and 
aircraft retirements, significant environmental benefits, and modern configuration and cabin features our customers 
will appreciate," he said.
The airline will use part of the newly delivered B737 MAX for the replacement of retired aircraft and part for fleet 
growth. The airline is only the third customer for the high-density B737-8-200 variant (after Ryanair Holdings and 
VietJetAir).
Allegiant Air used to operate six B757-200s between 2010 and 2017, but never B737s.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
US 's Allegiant Air orders 50+50 B737 MAX
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: January 12, 2022
End of Document
Travel and leisure shares surge as Omicron disruption fears recede Record infections across west Investors 
focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
Travel and leisure shares surge as Omicron disruption fears recede; Record 
infections across west Investors focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
Financial Times (London, England)
January 5, 2022 Wednesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 442 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS;JIM PICKARD;ERIC PLATT
Body
Travel stocks rose sharply yesterday as investors grew more confident that the economic threat of the Omicron 
variant was fading, despite record numbers of cases in the US, UK, France and Italy.
US cases in a single day were 1.08m, according to Johns Hopkins University, while the UK reported 218,000, 
France close to 300,000 and Italy 170,000.
But with the virus causing fewer hospitalisations than previous waves, investors bought into companies most at risk 
from lockdowns and travel restrictions. London-listed budget carrier Wizz Air gained 12 per cent, British Airways 
owner IAG rose 11 per cent and easyJet added 9 per cent.
German tour operator Tui rose 10 per cent, while Ryanair gained 8 per cent and other European airlines, including 
Lufthansa and Air France, added to gains made on Monday.
Boris Johnson said there was a chance the UK could "ride out this Omicron wave without shutting down our 
country". The UK prime minister added: "We can keep our schools and our businesses open, and we can find a 
way to live with this virus."
Travel and leisure shares surge as Omicron disruption fears recede Record infections across west Investors 
focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
The European Stoxx 600 travel and leisure index rose more than 3 per cent to hit its highest level since late 
November, before Omicron was declared a variant of concern. "The global theme in markets is that we have 
reached peak Covid," said Roger Lee, head of UK equity strategy at Investec.
Shares in big US airlines followed Europe higher as investors shrugged off thousands of flight cancellations caused 
by Covid-related staff absences and severe weather.
The technology-focused Nasdaq Composite fell 1.6 per cent, as shares in companies typically viewed as 
beneficiaries of Covid-related curbs declined.
Chinese ecommerce group Pinduoduo fell more than a tenth while Peloton traded more than 6 per cent lower. 
Zoom Video Communications dipped about 5 per cent.
The tech rout accompanied a second day of heavy selling in the $22tn US Treasury market, pushing yields on 10- 
and 30-year government debt higher. But given inflation expectations remained relatively unchanged at the start of 
the year, investors and strategists said the moves reflected confidence in the recovery and the ability of central 
banks to tame rising prices.
Traders have welcomed early data that Omicron may cause less severe illness than previous Covid strains, while 
new findings boosted evidence that vaccines hold up against severe outcomes.
Germany added to the bullish sentiment, relaxing travel restrictions on the UK and several southern African nations. 
The UK's travel rules will be reviewed today.
Additional reporting by Naomi Rovnick in London US infections page 2 Trade show goes on page 8 FT View page 
16 Martin Sandbu page 17
Graphic
 
Shares in US and European airlines rose as investors shrugged off flight cancellations caused by Covid-related 
staff absences
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
Travel and leisure shares surge as Omicron disruption fears recede; Record infections across west Investors 
focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
Travel and leisure shares surge as Omicron disruption fears recede; Record 
infections across west Investors focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
Financial Times (London, England)
January 5, 2022 Wednesday
Edition 1, Middle East Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 442 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS ; JIM PICKARD ;ERIC PLATT
Body
Travel stocks rose sharply yesterday as investors grew more confident that the economic threat of the Omicron 
variant was fading, despite record numbers of cases in the US, UK, France and Italy.
US cases in a single day were 1.08m, according to Johns Hopkins University, while the UK reported 218,000, 
France close to 300,000 and Italy 170,000.
But with the virus causing fewer hospitalisations than previous waves, investors bought into companies most at risk 
from lockdowns and travel restrictions. London-listed budget carrier Wizz Air gained 12 per cent, British Airways 
owner IAG rose 11 per cent and easyJet added 9 per cent.
German tour operator Tui rose 10 per cent, while Ryanair gained 8 per cent and other European airlines, including 
Lufthansa and Air France, added to gains made on Monday.
Boris Johnson said there was a chance the UK could "ride out this Omicron wave without shutting down our 
country". The UK prime minister added: "We can keep our schools and our businesses open, and we can find a 
way to live with this virus."
Travel and leisure shares surge as Omicron disruption fears recede; Record infections across west Investors 
focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
The European Stoxx 600 travel and leisure index rose more than 3 per cent to hit its highest level since late 
November, before Omicron was declared a variant of concern. "The global theme in markets is that we have 
reached peak Covid," said Roger Lee, head of UK equity strategy at Investec.
Shares in big US airlines followed Europe higher as investors shrugged off thousands of flight cancellations caused 
by Covid-related staff absences and severe weather.
The technology-focused Nasdaq Composite fell 1.6 per cent, as shares in companies typically viewed as 
beneficiaries of Covid-related curbs declined.
Chinese ecommerce group Pinduoduo fell more than a tenth while Peloton traded more than 6 per cent lower. 
Zoom Video Communications dipped about 5 per cent.
The tech rout accompanied a second day of heavy selling in the $22tn US Treasury market, pushing yields on 10- 
and 30-year government debt higher. But given inflation expectations remained relatively unchanged at the start of 
the year, investors and strategists said the moves reflected confidence in the recovery and the ability of central 
banks to tame rising prices.
Traders have welcomed early data that Omicron may cause less severe illness than previous Covid strains, while 
new findings boosted evidence that vaccines hold up against severe outcomes.
Germany added to the bullish sentiment, relaxing travel restrictions on the UK and several southern African nations. 
The UK's travel rules will be reviewed today.
Additional reporting by Naomi Rovnick in London US infections page 2 Trade show goes on page 8 FT View page 
16 Martin Sandbu page 17
Graphic
 
Shares in US and European airlines rose as investors shrugged off flight cancellations caused by Covid-related 
staff absences
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
Travel and leisure shares surge as Omicron disruption fears recede Record infections across west Investors 
focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
Travel and leisure shares surge as Omicron disruption fears recede; Record 
infections across west Investors focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
Financial Times (London, England)
January 5, 2022 Wednesday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 442 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS ; JIM PICKARD;ERIC PLATT
Body
Travel stocks rose sharply yesterday as investors grew more confident that the economic threat of the Omicron 
variant was fading, despite record numbers of cases in the US, UK, France and Italy.
US cases in a single day were 1.08m, according to Johns Hopkins University, while the UK reported 218,000, 
France close to 300,000 and Italy 170,000.
But with the virus causing fewer hospitalisations than previous waves, investors bought into companies most at risk 
from lockdowns and travel restrictions. London-listed budget carrier Wizz Air gained 12 per cent, British Airways 
owner IAG rose 11 per cent and easyJet added 9 per cent.
German tour operator Tui rose 10 per cent, while Ryanair gained 8 per cent and other European airlines, including 
Lufthansa and Air France, added to gains made on Monday.
Boris Johnson said there was a chance the UK could "ride out this Omicron wave without shutting down our 
country". The UK prime minister added: "We can keep our schools and our businesses open, and we can find a 
way to live with this virus."
Travel and leisure shares surge as Omicron disruption fears recede Record infections across west Investors 
focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
The European Stoxx 600 travel and leisure index rose more than 3 per cent to hit its highest level since late 
November, before Omicron was declared a variant of concern. "The global theme in markets is that we have 
reached peak Covid," said Roger Lee, head of UK equity strategy at Investec.
Shares in big US airlines followed Europe higher as investors shrugged off thousands of flight cancellations caused 
by Covid-related staff absences and severe weather.
The technology-focused Nasdaq Composite fell 1.6 per cent, as shares in companies typically viewed as 
beneficiaries of Covid-related curbs declined.
Chinese ecommerce group Pinduoduo fell more than a tenth while Peloton traded more than 6 per cent lower. 
Zoom Video Communications dipped about 5 per cent.
The tech rout accompanied a second day of heavy selling in the $22tn US Treasury market, pushing yields on 10- 
and 30-year government debt higher. But given inflation expectations remained relatively unchanged at the start of 
the year, investors and strategists said the moves reflected confidence in the recovery and the ability of central 
banks to tame rising prices.
Traders have welcomed early data that Omicron may cause less severe illness than previous Covid strains, while 
new findings boosted evidence that vaccines hold up against severe outcomes.
Germany added to the bullish sentiment, relaxing travel restrictions on the UK and several southern African nations. 
The UK's travel rules will be reviewed today.
Additional reporting by Naomi Rovnick in London US infections page 2 Trade show goes on page 8 FT View page 
16 Martin Sandbu page 17
Graphic
 
Shares in US and European airlines rose as investors shrugged off flight cancellations caused by Covid-related 
staff absences
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
Travel and leisure shares surge as Omicron disruption fears recede Record infections across west Investors 
focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
Travel and leisure shares surge as Omicron disruption fears recede; Record 
infections across west Investors focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
Financial Times (London, England)
January 5, 2022 Wednesday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 442 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS ; JIM PICKARD; ERIC PLATT
Body
Travel stocks rose sharply yesterday as investors grew more confident that the economic threat of the Omicron 
variant was fading, despite record numbers of cases in the US, UK, France and Italy.
US cases in a single day were 1.08m, according to Johns Hopkins University, while the UK reported 218,000, 
France close to 300,000 and Italy 170,000.
But with the virus causing fewer hospitalisations than previous waves, investors bought into companies most at risk 
from lockdowns and travel restrictions. London-listed budget carrier Wizz Air gained 12 per cent, British Airways 
owner IAG rose 11 per cent and easyJet added 9 per cent.
German tour operator Tui rose 10 per cent, while Ryanair gained 8 per cent and other European airlines, including 
Lufthansa and Air France, added to gains made on Monday.
Boris Johnson said there was a chance the UK could "ride out this Omicron wave without shutting down our 
country". The UK prime minister added: "We can keep our schools and our businesses open, and we can find a 
way to live with this virus."
Travel and leisure shares surge as Omicron disruption fears recede Record infections across west Investors 
focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
The European Stoxx 600 travel and leisure index rose more than 3 per cent to hit its highest level since late 
November, before Omicron was declared a variant of concern. "The global theme in markets is that we have 
reached peak Covid," said Roger Lee, head of UK equity strategy at Investec.
Shares in big US airlines followed Europe higher as investors shrugged off thousands of flight cancellations caused 
by Covid-related staff absences and severe weather.
The technology-focused Nasdaq Composite fell 1.6 per cent, as shares in companies typically viewed as 
beneficiaries of Covid-related curbs declined.
Chinese ecommerce group Pinduoduo fell more than a tenth while Peloton traded more than 6 per cent lower. 
Zoom Video Communications dipped about 5 per cent.
The tech rout accompanied a second day of heavy selling in the $22tn US Treasury market, pushing yields on 10- 
and 30-year government debt higher. But given inflation expectations remained relatively unchanged at the start of 
the year, investors and strategists said the moves reflected confidence in the recovery and the ability of central 
banks to tame rising prices.
Traders have welcomed early data that Omicron may cause less severe illness than previous Covid strains, while 
new findings boosted evidence that vaccines hold up against severe outcomes.
Germany added to the bullish sentiment, relaxing travel restrictions on the UK and several southern African nations. 
The UK's travel rules will be reviewed today.
Additional reporting by Naomi Rovnick in London US infections page 2 Trade show goes on page 8 FT View page 
16 Martin Sandbu page 17
Graphic
 
Shares in US and European airlines rose as investors shrugged off flight cancellations caused by Covid-related 
staff absences
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
Travel and leisure shares surge on belief Omicron turmoil is waning Record infections across west Investors 
focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
Travel and leisure shares surge on belief Omicron turmoil is waning; Record 
infections across west Investors focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
Financial Times (London, England)
January 5, 2022 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 449 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS ; JIM PICKARD; ERIC PLATT
Body
Travel stocks rose sharply yesterday as investors grew more confident that the economic threat of the Omicron 
variant was fading, despite record numbers of cases in the US, UK, France and Italy.
US cases in a single day were 1.08m, according to Johns Hopkins University, while the UK reported 218,000, 
France close to 300,000 and Italy 170,000.
But with the virus causing fewer hospital admissions than in other waves, investors bought into companies most at 
risk from lockdowns and travel res- trictions. London-listed budget carrier Wizz Air gained 12 per cent, British 
Airways owner IAG rose 11 per cent and easyJet added 9 per cent. German tour operator Tui rose 10 per cent, 
Ryanair climbed 8 per cent and other European airlines, including Lufthansa and Air France, added to Monday's 
gains.
"The global theme in markets is that we have reached 'peak Covid'," said Roger Lee, head of UK equity strategy at 
Investec.
Boris Johnson said there was a chance that the UK could "ride out this Omicron wave without shutting down our 
country". The prime minister added: "We can keep our schools and our businesses open, and we can find a way to 
live with this virus."
Travel and leisure shares surge on belief Omicron turmoil is waning Record infections across west Investors 
focus on lower severity Tech stocks suffer
Traders have welcomed early data that Omicron may cause less severe illness than previous virus strains, while 
new findings boosted evidence that vaccines hold up against severe outcomes.
The UK's travel rules, which include expensive testing before and after flights, will be reviewed today.
Industry executives expect the government to abolish the requirement to take a pre-departure test before returning 
to the UK as part of the review.
One government official said the predeparture tests were "likely" to be removed, given the rampant spread of the 
virus domestically.
Grant Shapps, the transport secretary, wants to abolish the testing rules to help the aviation sector recover, 
according to people familiar with the matter.
Shares in big US airlines followed Europe higher as investors shrugged off thousands of flight cancellations caused 
by Covid-related staff absences and severe weather.
The technology-focused Nasdaq Composite fell 1.6 per cent, as shares in companies typically viewed as 
beneficiaries of Covid-related curbs declined. Peloton traded more than 6 per cent lower, while Zoom Video 
Communications dipped about 5 per cent.
The decline in tech stocks accompanied a second day of heavy selling in the $22tn US Treasury market, pushing 
yields on 10 and 30-year government debt higher. Investors and strategists said the moves reflected confidence in 
the recovery.
Additional reporting by Naomi Rovnick News & analysis page 2 US hits infections record page 4 Trade show goes 
on page 10 FT View page 22 Martin Sandbu page 23
Graphic
 
Shares in US and European airlines rose as investors shrugged off flight cancellations caused by Covid-related 
staff absences
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Sold by Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd.
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Sold by Sprucegrove 
Investment Management Ltd.
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
January 5, 2022 Wednesday 3:06 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 994 words
Body
Jan 05, 2022( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd. decreased its position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
0.4% in the 3rd quarter, Holdings Channel.com[1] reports. The institutional investor owned 2,043,974 shares of the 
transportation company's stock after selling 8,600 shares during the period. Ryanair comprises approximately 5.5% 
of Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd.'s portfolio, making the stock its 5th largest position. Sprucegrove 
Investment Management Ltd.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $224,960,000 at the end of the most recent 
reporting period.  
Several other hedge funds have also recently made changes to their positions in the company. Profund Advisors 
LLC grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 2.7% in the 2nd quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $486,000 after buying an additional 117 shares during the 
period. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 
1.2% in the 2nd quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $1,318,000 after buying an additional 144 shares during the period. 
Atria Investments LLC grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 1.0% in the 2nd quarter. Atria Investments LLC 
now owns 14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,595,000 after buying an additional 148 
shares during the period. M&T Bank Corp grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 5.3% in the 3rd quarter. M&T 
Bank Corp now owns 3,115 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $343,000 after buying an 
additional 156 shares during the period. Finally, Private Advisor Group LLC grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair 
by 6.9% in the 2nd quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC now owns 2,535 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $274,000 after buying an additional 163 shares during the period. 43.91% of the stock is owned by 
institutional investors.  
Several equities research analysts recently commented on the stock. Barclays reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Morgan Stanley reaffirmed an "overweight" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair 
from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. UBS Group reaffirmed a 
"neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Finally, Credit Suisse Group 
reissued an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Five 
investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued a buy rating to the stock. Based 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Sold by Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd.
on data from MarketBeat, the company presently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average price target of 
$122.08. 
Shares of RYAAY stock[2] opened at $109.05 on Wednesday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a 
quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The firm's 50-day moving average is $107.00 and its 200-day moving 
average is $108.49. The stock has a market cap of $24.71 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -30.98 and a beta of 
1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week high of $127.25.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) last issued its earnings results on Monday, November 1st. The transportation company 
reported $1.16 earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, missing the Zacks' consensus estimate of $1.80 by 
($0.64). Ryanair had a negative net margin of 25.41% and a negative return on equity of 14.51%. The firm had 
revenue of $2.10 billion during the quarter, compared to the consensus estimate of $2.34 billion. Sell-side analysts 
predict that Ryanair Holdings plc will post -1.01 EPS for the current fiscal year.  
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: What is the FTSE 100 index? [3] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/market-indexes/UKX/ [ 4]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-
ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair 's passenger traffic surges in December
Ryanair's passenger traffic surges in December
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
January 5, 2022 Wednesday 10:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 106 words
Dateline: London (dpa) - 
Body
Ryanair, Europe's largest low-cost airline, said that traffic for the month of December surged to 9.5 million 
passengers from last year's 1.9 million.
The Dublin-based airline group's load factor was 81 per cent compared to 73 per cent a year ago.
Ryanair operated more than 62,200 flights last month, a typically busy time thanks to year-end holidays.
In the preceding month of November traffic was 10.2 million passengers, with 86 per cent load factor.
More broadly, airlines are still struggling to cope with the reduction in customers due to travel restrictions and 
coronavirus fears, with Omicron now wreaking new havoc on the industry.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Stephen Lowman, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair December Traffic Surges
Ryanair December Traffic Surges
RTT News (United States)
January 5, 2022 Wednesday
Copyright 2022 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2022 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 71 words
Byline: editorial@rttnews.com,  (RTT Staff Writer)
Body
       Low fares airline Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA.L, RYAAY) said that group traffic for the month of December 2021 
surged to 9.5 million passengers from last year's 1.9 million passengers. The Group's load factor was 81% 
compared to 73%, a year ago.
 Ryanair operated more than 62,200 flights in December 2021.
 In the preceding month of November 2021, traffic was 10.2 million passengers, with 86 percent load factor.        
Load-Date: January 6, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair records second lowest passenger volumes in December since July
Ryanair records second lowest passenger volumes in December since July
Alliance News UK
January 5, 2022 Wednesday 09:38 AM GMT
Copyright 2022 Alliance News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 148 words
Body
(Alliance News) - Ryanair Holdings PLC on Wednesday said passenger volumes in December were up compared 
to the year before, but were the second-lowest monthly total this year since July.
The Dublin-based low-cost airline said it operated 62,200 flights in December. 
The passenger volume for these flights amounted to 9.5 million, multiplied from the 1.9 million passengers it carried 
in December 2020. 
Ryanair also said that the load factor increased to 81% in December, up from 73% a year before. 
Nonetheless, the passenger total in December was still the lowest since July, when Ryanair carried 9.3 million 
passengers, with an average load factor of 80%. In November, Ryanair carried 10.2 million passengers.
Shares in Ryanair were up 0.6% at EUR16.58 each on Wednesday morning in Dublin.
By Abby Amoakuh; abbyamoakuh@alliancenews.com
Copyright 2022 Alliance News Limited. All Rights Reserved.
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
Traffic numbers Ryanair and Wizz going down and up
Traffic numbers Ryanair and Wizz going down and up
Newstex Blogs 
AirInsight
January 5, 2022 Wednesday 1:12 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 868 words
Byline: Richard Schuurman
Body
Jan 05, 2022( AirInsight: http://airinsight.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 We are seeing conflicting trends in the number of traffic from two of Europe's biggest low-cost airlines,Ryanair[1] 
and Wizz Air[2]. While the Central Eastern European carrier reports recovery of passenger numbers for December, 
its Irish competitor saw a decline to the lowest level since July which it blames on the Omicron effect. Traffic 
numbers Ryanair and Wizz going down and up. 
 Ryanair carried 9.5 million passengers in December compared to 10.2 million in November and even 11.3 million in 
October. This was the highest level in the current FY22, which runs from April to April. During the first nine months, 
Ryanair and its subsidiaries Malta Air and Buzz carried 70.1 million passengers, of which 62 million between July 
and December. By comparison: in the first nine months of FY21, Ryanair carried 25.1 million passengers. 
 The load factor for December was 81 percent, which is back to the September level after two months of 84 and 86 
percent in October and November. The number of flights in December was 62.000, only 300 down in November but 
much lower than the 71.500 in October. 
 Ryanair said on December 22 that it has lowered its guidance for December from ten to eleven million passengers 
to nine to 9.5 million, ending up at the higher end of its forecast. Its final quarter between January and the end of 
March will likely see a significant impact of Omicron as bookings are expected to end up much lower. Ryanair has 
cut its capacity for the quarter by 33 percent and hopes to carry at least some 25 to 30 million passengers to end 
FY22 slightly under 100 million passengers. 
 https://i0.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/wizz-air-
a321235dad1be0da498b945725174da78cac_180b0407.jpg?ssl=1 
 At Wizz Air, we are seeing a different trend in traffic numbers. The carrier reported 2.6 million passengers in 
December, up from 2.1 million in November. However, Wizz experienced a significant drop in November from 2.9 
million passengers in October as well as September as it suffered from rising Covid infections in Eastern Europe. 
Mind you this was still the Delta variant. As with Ryanair, August was the best month for Wizz at 3.6 million 
passengers. At some half a million passengers, the drop between August and September was almost identical with 
both airlines. 
 Like that of Ryanair, Wizz Air's financial year FY21/22 spans from April to April. During the first nine months, it 
carried 20.2 million passengers compared to 8.6 million in the same period of FY20/21. For the rolling twelve 
months, Wizz said it carried 21.7 million passengers, up from 16.8 million for January-December 2020. If we 
Traffic numbers Ryanair and Wizz going down and up
translate Ryanair's numbers into a rolling year, it ended 2021 with 72.4 million passengers carried compared to 51,9 
million in 2020. 
 Wizz's load factor for December was 75.4 percent and 75.2 percent for the twelve months period. Whereas 
Ryanair doesn't provide monthly figures of its capacity, Wizz reports that capacity in December was 3.5 million 
seats or 194.6 percent higher than December 2020. Capacity for the rolling year was 28.9 million seats, +29.6 
million. 
 So far, no other airlines have reported traffic numbers for December.easyjet[3] hasn't published any data since 
September when it closed its FY21. Back then, the UK low-cost airline carried 4.5 million passengers and 5.1 
million in August. Lufthansa Group, Air France-KLM, and International Airlines Group (IAG) have stopped publishing 
monthly traffic data some time ago and only announce quarterly results. 
 So while Ryanair's traffic numbers have gone down and those of Wizz Air up, it is likely that the Omicron effect will 
push traffic further down in the coming quarter. This seems to confirm that 2022 will continue to be another 
rollercoaster year for Europe's air travel. 
Please follow and like us: 
 [ 1]: http://www.ryanair.com [ 2]: http://www.wizzair.com [ 3]: http://www.easyjet.com 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
Allegiant selects MAX but partly keeps A320ceo fleet
Allegiant selects MAX but partly keeps A320ceo fleet
Newstex Blogs 
AirInsight
January 5, 2022 Wednesday 4:12 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1192 words
Byline: Richard Schuurman
Body
Jan 05, 2022( AirInsight: http://airinsight.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Boeing[1]and Allegiant Air[2] were tightlipped yesterday, but today they have confirmed reports that the airline has 
selected the MAX for its fleet renewal and growth strategy. Allegiant has placed a firm order for fifty MAX 7s and 8-
200s for delivery in 2023, with purchase rights for another fifty for delivery in 2024-2025, it said on January 5. 
Allegiant selects MAX but partly keeps A320ceo fleet. 
 The order is a welcome start of the new year to Boeing, which lost out to Airbus in December when Qantas[3], 
KLM[4], Transavia, and Transavia France selected the A220 and A320neo/A321XLR. This time it's Airbus that is 
losing an order, as Allegiant has been an all-Airbus operator since retiring its McDonnell-Douglas MD-80s and 
Boeing 757 some years ago. 
 Allegiant Air currently has a fleet of 108 A319s and A320s, the former with an average age of 16.5 years and the 
latter of fourteen years. They have flown before with a wide selection of airlines that include easyjet, Iberia, Peach, 
or Cebu. 
 The MAX will offer the ultra-low-cost airline with more fuel-efficient and economical aircraft, with the MAX 7 and its 
172 seat single-class configuration offering more capacity than the A319ceo with its 156 seats. It gives the carrier 
the flexibility to introduce new routes that need to prove their worth, adding capacity with the 210-seat MAX 8-200 
that entered service with Ryanair and its subsidiaries Buzz and Malta Air last year. The Irish low-cost operates 
theMAX 8200[5] with 197 seats. The high-density version recently also won orders from Indian start-upAkasa Air[6] 
and lessor777 Partners.[7] 
 https://i1.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/FFoL2HwWQA0l4qh.jpg?ssl=1 
 Allegiant will likely phase out all Airbus[8] A319ceo's, like this one, but will keep an A320ceo fleet and will even add 
more used aircraft. (Allegiant Air) 
 While Airbus has lost an order for the A320neo-family, it isn't losing Allegiant Air as an entire customer. The carrier 
makes clear that it plans to operate the MAX alongside its A320ceo-family for some time to come, adding even 
more A320ceo's when they become available. This is defying the golden rule of low-cost that you need a single-
type fleet if you want to maximize your costs advantage. Allegiant used to follow this rule by sourcing used 
A320ceo-family aircraft to maintain lower fixed costs. 'However, the pandemic recovery cycle has brought to 
Allegiant unique opportunities to acquire new equipment, including this aircraft-family solution, which will add 
significant economic and operational benefits for years to come', the carrier says in apress release.[9] 
Allegiant selects MAX but partly keeps A320ceo fleet
Strategy continues to center around used aircraft 
Chairman and CEO Maurice J. Gallagher says: 'Our approach to the fleet has always been opportunistic, and this 
exciting transaction with Boeing[10] is no exception. While the heart of our strategy continues to center on 
previously-owned aircraft, the infusion of up to 100 direct-from-the-manufacturer 737s will bring numerous benefits 
for the future - including flexibility for capacity growth and aircraft retirements, significant environmental benefits, 
and modern configuration and cabin features our customers will appreciate.' 
 The mixed Boeing and Airbus fleet will allow Allegiant Air to retire its oldest A319ceo's and A320ceo's while adding 
capacity and realizing the ten percent-plus annual growth rate which is part of its long-term strategy. It will be 
looking out for opportunities to source used A320ceo's when they come available. 
MAX has the strongest position in North and South America 
Stan Deal, Boeing Commercial Airplanes President, and CEO, is most happy with the Allegiant order: 'This deal 
further validates the economics of the 737 MAX family in the ULCC market and we're excited to stand alongside 
Allegiant as they integrate these new airplanes into their fleet.' 
 The latest deal with Allegiant Air seems to confirm a trend that the Boeing MAX is selling especially well in North 
and South America while losing market share elsewhere, notably in Europe. Except for Delta Airlines, the MAX has 
been bought by legacy carriers like American, United, WestJet, and Air Canada, while also forming the backbone of 
the fleets of Southwest and Alaska Airlines. In Latin and South America, the MAX has been the preferred aircraft 
with Aeromexico and GOL. Delta has opted for the A320neo-family, as have JetBlue, Frontier, and Spirit. United will 
get the A321XLR later on, while JetBlue, Breeze, and Air Canada also operate the A220. 
 In Europe, Boeing over the past two decades has steadily lost market share to Airbus in the medium-haul segment 
with orders from Lufthansa, Air France, British Airways, Aer Lingus, Iberia, SAS, or airBaltic. Boeing lost orders to 
Airbus from ITA Airways and Jet 2 last year, while the Letter of Intent from International Airlines Group (IAG) for 200 
MAX seems off the table. After the 'defection' of KLM and the two Transavia's, another major carrier has jumped 
ship. It leaves the MAX in service only with Ryanair, TUI Fly, Norwegian, Icelandair, and in the near future Flyr. 
Please follow and like us: 
 [ 1]: http://www.boeing.com [ 2]: https://www.allegiantair.com/ [ 3]: https://airinsight.com/qantas-selects-airbus-
a220-and-a321xlr-over-max-and-e2/ [ 4]: https://airinsight.com/klm-and-transavia-also-jump-ship-from-boeing-to-
airbus/ [ 5]: https://airinsight.com/max-8200-comes-with-three-cabin-options-update/ [ 6]: https://airinsight.com/day-
3-dubai-airshow-boeing-finally-gets-some-new-aircraft-deals/ [ 7]: https://airinsight.com/airinsight-news-in-brief-
december/ [ 8]: https://airinsight.com/category/aerospace/airbus/ [ 9]: https://ir.allegiantair.com/news-releases/news-
release-details/allegiant-announces-purchase-50-boeing-737-aircraft 
[ 
10]: 
https://airinsight.com/category/aerospace/boeing/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 5, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $106.44
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $106.44
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
January 4, 2022 Tuesday 8:16 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 755 words
Body
Jan 04, 2022( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)'s share price gapped up prior to trading on Tuesday . The stock had 
previously closed at $106.44, but opened at $112.41. Ryanair shares last traded at $109.33, with a volume of 790 
shares changing hands.  
Several research analysts have recently issued reports on the stock. Raymond James lowered their target price on 
shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a report on Monday, 
November 29th. Credit Suisse Group reiterated an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on 
Friday, September 17th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research report on Friday, September 17th. Oddo Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to 
a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co. reiterated a 
"neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Five investment analysts have 
rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have assigned a buy rating to the stock. Based on data from 
MarketBeat, the company presently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.08. 
The stock's fifty day moving average price is $107.00 and its 200-day moving average price is $108.50. The 
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The firm has a market 
cap of $24.64 billion, a PE ratio of -30.89 and a beta of 1.58.  
Several institutional investors and hedge funds have recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. 
WealthShield Partners LLC increased its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 638.2% in the 2nd quarter. WealthShield 
Partners LLC now owns 251 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $27,000 after purchasing an 
additional 217 shares in the last quarter. Assetmark Inc. grew its stake in Ryanair by 133.6% in the 3rd quarter. 
Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $30,000 after acquiring an 
additional 155 shares during the last quarter. Advisory Services Network LLC acquired a new stake in Ryanair in 
the 2nd quarter valued at about $46,000. JFS Wealth Advisors LLC acquired a new stake in Ryanair in the 3rd 
quarter valued at about $47,000. Finally, Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. grew its stake in Ryanair by 532.2% 
in the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors and 
hedge funds own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Company Profile (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) 
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $106.44
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: What is a death cross?[2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/death-cross-
stocks/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 4, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $106.44
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $106.44
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
January 4, 2022 Tuesday 9:06 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 759 words
Body
Jan 04, 2022( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)'s share price gapped up before the market opened on Tuesday . The 
stock had previously closed at $106.44, but opened at $112.41. Ryanair shares last traded at $109.33, with a 
volume of 790 shares changing hands.  
RYAAY has been the subject of several recent research reports. Barclays reiterated an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. UBS Group reissued a "neutral" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded shares of Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. Peel Hunt raised 
shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Raymond 
James dropped their price objective on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating 
for the company in a report on Monday, November 29th. Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold 
rating and twelve have issued a buy rating to the stock. According to data from MarketBeat, the company presently 
has an average rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
The company has a market cap of $24.64 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -30.89 and a beta of 1.58. The 
company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The company's 50-day 
moving average is $107.00 and its 200 day moving average is $108.50.  
Hedge funds have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. WealthShield Partners LLC grew its 
position in shares of Ryanair by 638.2% in the second quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $27,000 after purchasing an additional 217 shares during the period. 
Assetmark Inc. grew its position in shares of Ryanair by 133.6% in the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $30,000 after purchasing an additional 155 shares during 
the period. Advisory Services Network LLC acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair in the second quarter valued 
at about $46,000. JFS Wealth Advisors LLC acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair in the third quarter valued at 
about $47,000. Finally, Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. grew its position in shares of Ryanair by 532.2% in 
the second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $58,000 after purchasing an additional 463 shares during the period. Institutional investors own 
43.91% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Company Profile (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $106.44
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: Moving Average - How it Helps Investors in Stock Selection[2] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/moving-average-helps-stock-selection/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 4, 2022
End of Document
Google removes YouTube ads featuring interrogations of Belarusian political prisoners
Google removes YouTube ads featuring interrogations of Belarusian 
political prisoners
Newstex Blogs 
Global Voices
January 4, 2022 Tuesday 4:06 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1495 words
Byline: Tanya Lokot
Body
Jan 04, 2022( Global Voices: http://globalvoicesonline.org Delivered by Newstex)  
 Opposition activists said the video ads violated YouTube's platform policies 
Originally published on Global Voices[1] [ Image removed: Photo by StockSnap on Pixabay, Pixabay License. ][2] 
Photo by StockSnap on Pixabay[3], Pixabay License[4]. 
 Google and YouTube have reportedly removed controversial video ads featuring scenes of interrogation of 
Belarusian political prisoners promoted by pro-government Belarusian YouTube channels. 
 The ads were first spotted in May 2021 by Belarusian and international journalists and activists. Tadeusz Giczan, 
Belarusian journalist and researcher, posted[5] about the find on Twitter: 
Fun fact: for almost a year Belarusian state news agency BelTA has been using hostage videos like the one with 
Roman Protasevich as paid ads on YouTube with links to their network of pro-govt telegram channels. We tried 
everything but YouTube says there's nothing wrong about it. pic.twitter.com/suFn3ISdPi[6] 
 — Tadeusz Giczan (@TadeuszGiczan) May 25, 2021[7] 
 The short videos feature opposition members and independent journalists imprisoned by the Lukashenka regime in 
what look like forced confessions. The ads were used to promote the pro-government news outlet BelTA and link to 
longer videos published by the YouTube channel[8] 'Belarus - a country for life', linked to the state's network of 
Telegram channels, according to an EUvsDisinfo investigation[9]. Those appearing in the video ads include Raman 
Pratasevich, independent journalist and one-time administrator of NEXTA Live[10] Telegram channel, and his 
girlfriend Sofia Sapega who were arrested after Belarus forcibly grounded a Ryanair plane[11] back in May 2021. 
 Belarus has previously used forced confession videos to discredit dissidents, including exiled opposition leader 
Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya. In August 2020, shortly after the start of the anti-government protests[12] in the country 
following a falsified election, the state published a video[13] of Tsikhanouskaya telling her supporters 'not to risk 
their lives' and not to join mass protests. Tsikhanouskaya left Belarus shortly after and has been campaigning for 
the release of all political prisoners. 
 Human rights groups have condemned[14] the promoted forced confession videos[15], with activists pointing 
out[16] they were against Google and YouTube's platform policies and also violated the UN Convention against 
Google removes YouTube ads featuring interrogations of Belarusian political prisoners
Torture. According to some of the detainees[17] who have subsequently been released, state security services 
have employed torture, physical and psychological violence to obtain the recorded testimonies. 
 Back in May 2021, a Google spokesperson told[18] Rest of World that the company 'identified both of the ads 
(featuring Pratasevich and Sapega - GV) and took action against them according to its inappropriate content policy'. 
YouTube's Advertising Policies explicitly forbid[19] ads that 'single out someone for abuse or harassment; content 
that suggests a tragic event did not happen, or that victims or their families are actors, or complicit in a cover-up of 
the event'. The platform's community guidelines[20] also prohibit discriminatory speech, exploitation, harassment, 
and content promoting violent, dangerous or illegal behaviour. 
 However, the Belarusian pro-government channels have since continued to publish[21] similar YouTube video ads 
containing forced confessions of other political prisoners and pro-government propaganda. 
 On December 21, 2021 opposition leader Tsikhanouskaya, acting on behalf of the opposition's Coordination 
Council and the families of those detained, sent an open letter[22] to Google's CEO Sundar Pichai requesting that 
Google and YouTube remove the offending videos, block the placement of similar advertisements in the future, and 
to restrict access to the service for persons responsible for the content. 
 On January 3 of this year, Tikhanovskaya reported that she received a response from Karan Bhatia, Google's VP 
of Government Affairs and Public Policy. 
Following my letter, @Google[23] removed the ads with interrogations of polit. prisoners. By the response letter, the 
accounts running those ads are now restricted. The videos of forced testimonies violate the UN Convention against 
Torture. Thank you @Google[24] for standing by Belarus. pic.twitter .com/qJITO19o2z[25]; 
 — Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya (@Tsihanouskaya) January 3, 2022[26] 
 In the letter[27], Bhatia said that Google had removed the ads flagged for 'violation of our policies' and had 
'restricted the responsible ad accounts from serving any more ads'. The platform also confirmed that any new ads 
linking to restricted videos or landing pages would 'not appear on' YouTube. 
 According to human rights organisation Viasna 96, there are currently 968 individuals[28] classified as political 
prisoners in Belarus, and this number continues to grow. Most of those jailed or detained were targeted by politically 
motivated criminal prosecution in connection with the ongoing turmoil following the presidential election and mass 
protests of August 2020. Several of the high-profile political prisoners, including blogger and journalist Ihar Losik 
and Syarhey Tsikhanouski, former presidential candidate and Tsikhanouskaya's husband, have recently been 
handed[29] lengthy prison terms. 
 Written byTanya Lokot[30] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://globalvoices.org 
/2022/01/04/google-removes-youtube-ads-featuring-interrogations-of-belarusian-
political-prisoners/ [ 2]: https://globalvoices.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/youtube-ga566ec41b_1280.jpg [ 3]: 
https://pixabay.com/ro/photos/youtube-iphone-smartphone-mobil-2617510/ [ 4]: https://pixabay.com/service/license/ 
[ 
5]: 
https://twitter.com/TadeuszGiczan/status/1397200848145559552 
[ 
6]: 
https://t.co/suFn3ISdPi 
[ 
7]: 
https://twitter.com/TadeuszGiczan/status/1397200848145559552?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0qAR6tFN7OksMRcoigEt3A/videos [ 9]: https://euvsdisinfo.eu/the-dirty-side-
of-advertising-forced-confessions-from-belarus-on-youtube/ [ 10]: https://globalvoices.org/2020/08/18/how-one-
telegram-channel-became-central-to-belarus-protests/ [ 11]: https://globalvoices.org/2021/05/23/belarus-grounds-
ryanair-flight-detains-independent-journalist-amid-regimes-crackdown-on-media/ 
[ 
12]: 
https://globalvoices.org/special/belarus-in-turmoil-2020/ 
[ 
13]: 
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/aug/12/belarus-opposition-leader-a-victim-of-tactics-from-the-lukashenko-
playbook 
[ 
14]: 
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/may/26/belarus-regime-uses-video-confessions-tool-
silence-dissent-raman-pratasevich [ 15]: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/may/26/belarus-regime-uses-
video-confessions-tool-silence-dissent-raman-pratasevich 
[ 
16]: 
https://tsikhanouskaya.org/ru/events/news/ba617c92c667366.html 
[ 
17]: 
https://prisoners.spring96.org/en/person/andrej-pazniak [ 18]: https://restofworld.org/2021/youtube-ads-belarus/ [ 
19]: 
https://support.google.com/adspolicy/answer/6015406?hl=en&ref_topic=1626336 
[ 
20]: 
https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/9288567?hl=en&ref_topic=6151248 
[ 
21]: 
https://tsikhanouskaya.org/ru/events/news/ba617c92c667366.html 
[ 
22]: 
https://tsikhanouskaya.org/ru/events/news/ba617c92c667366.html 
[ 
23]: 
https://twitter.com/Google?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw [ 24]: https://twitter.com/Google?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw [ 25]: 
https://t.co/qJITO19o2z 
[ 
26]: 
Google removes YouTube ads featuring interrogations of Belarusian political prisoners
https://twitter.com/Tsihanouskaya/status/1478032221588140036?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw 
[ 
27]: 
https://twitter.com/Tsihanouskaya/status/1478032221588140036 [ 28]: https://prisoners.spring96.org/en [ 29]: 
https://www.rferl.org/a/belarus-losik-verdict-sentence/31607492.html [ 30]: https://globalvoices.org/author/tetyana-
lokot/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 4, 2022
End of Document
Hydrogen-electric jets and restructuring: Aviation industry's 2022 plans
Hydrogen-electric jets and restructuring: Aviation industry's 2022 plans
Newstex Blogs 
Deutsche Welle Business
January 4, 2022 Tuesday 12:06 PM EST
Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1140 words
Body
Jan 04, 2022( Deutsche Welle Business: http://www.dw.com/en/top-stories/s-9097 Delivered by Newstex)  
 Despite the raging omicron COVID variant, the battered aviation industry is cautiously optimistic about the new 
year. The year 2022 could be marked by a host of firsts and lasts for the industry.Few industries have been hit 
harder by the pandemic than aviation. But just when its fortunes were beginning to turn, it is having to contend with 
a new COVID-19 variant and ensuing travel restrictions. 
For some weeks during the summer holidays last year, air traffic was almost back at pre-pandemic levels, in rare 
cases even higher. By mid-December, the number of flights in European skies had reached about three quarters of 
the level seen during the same time in 2019 with low-cost carrier Ryanair leading the way. 
Ryanair, the market leader, was the only airline that clocked more flights, witnessing a 12% increase from 2019. 
Lufthansa and Air France each operated 21% fewer flights. British Airways fared even worse with the number of 
flights down by 35%. 
"From mid-January into February, we see a sharp decline in bookings," Lufthansa CEO Carsten Spohr said in a 
Christmas interview with the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung newspaper. "As a result, during the winter 
schedule, we will have to cancel some 33,000 flights or 10% in our group offering." 
Ryanair, which had dared to flood the market with capacity, has been struck even harder by the fresh restrictions. 
and now expects just 6-7 million passengers, down from the 10 million it projected earlier. 
Better times ahead 
The situation isn't any better globally — particularly in Asia. China largely remains off limits to foreign visitors as has 
been the case since the outbreak of the pandemic. Other markets like Thailand or Singapore, which were slowly 
easing restrictions for foreign travelers, have now taken a step backwards. New Zealand has postponed its 
reopening plans amid the omicron scare. 
Still, the aviation industry remains cautiously optimistic about its prospects this year. German flag carrier 
Lufthansawants to get back to making profits after having repaid its state debt earlier than planned. 
Aviation industry magazine Airline Business boldly predicts: "There are still solid grounds for believing 2022 can be 
significantly better than 2021 was for the airline industry, that is, once the omicron wave subsides." 
Hybrid hydrogen-electric aircraft 
Sustainability — which has been endorsed as a key goal by the aviation industry during the pandemic — will remain 
high on the agenda in 2022. First hybrid hydrogen-electric aircraft are due to take to the air this year, including the 
prototype of a 19-seater German-built Dornier 228, converted by British company ZeroAvia, as the industry strives 
to become climate-neutral by 2050. 
Hydrogen-electric jets and restructuring: Aviation industry's 2022 plans
As part of its go-green drive, the industry is pinning its hopes on sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) as a stopgap before 
aircraft can be powered by new energy sources. But SAF remains extremely costly for airlines and as a result very 
little of it is being produced. There are calls for governments to incentivize SAF production, including by imposing 
quotas on how much SAF must be blended with conventional jet fuel kerosene. 
The industry's green push is facing another immediate challenge, as highlighted by Lufthansa's Spohr in his 
interview. 
"We have to operate 18,000 extra and unnecessary flights, just to secure our takeoff and landing slots," which he 
said was at odds with the European Union's climate goals. 
In 2020, the European Commission had suspended the strict rule, which said an airline caould only keep its slots 
when it used at least 80% of them. Currently, an airline must use 50% of the slots with the figure planned to be 
raised to 64% from late March. While low-cost carriers would love to take over many of the empty slots much to the 
delight of underused airports, the EU will have to find a just and flexible allocation system that would minimize 
senseless empty flights at the same time. 
Russian rival 
There are some interesting milestones coming up for the aviation industry in 2022. The Russian twin-engine airliner, 
Irkut MC-21, has just been certified by authorities for passenger service. Even though the jet has yet to prove its 
mettle in the airline market, it will be competing for orders with decades-old bestsellers Airbus A320 and Boeing 
737. 
This spring, there will be the first flight of an interesting addition to the Airbus family at its factory in Hamburg-
Finkenwerder: the A321XLR. The airplane can carry between 180 and 220 passengers over distances of up to 
8,700 km (5,406 miles), thanks to its extra fuel tanks- It comes at the unit cost of a smaller medium-haul airliner. 
The low-flying cost means the aircraft would be economically viable to operate nonstop intercontinental routes even 
from secondary airports. The director of Nuremberg airport in Germany, for example, recently signaled his interest 
in direct flights to the US East Coast using the new A321XLR. 
This emerging trend of market fragmentation with ever more passengers able to reach their destinations nonstop, 
avoiding big hub airports, was one of the factors contributing to the demise of Airbus's A380s. 
In early 2022, after over 50 years, the production of the legendary Boeing jumbo jet, the Boeing 747, will also end, 
due to a lack of demand for its passenger version. However, the aircraft will retire with a unique record to its name; 
it's the only airliner to have remained in production for over half a century. 
Edited by: Ashutosh Pandey, Hardy Graupner 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 4, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair loss shrinks despite Omicron headwinds
Ryanair loss shrinks despite Omicron headwinds
AirFinance Journal
January 2022
Copyright 2022 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 342 words
Byline: Hugh Davies
Body
Higher bookings helped to narrow Ryanair's net loss to (EURO)96 million ($107 million) in the third quarter of fiscal 
year 2022 from (EURO)321 million in the year-ago period.
Third-quarter revenue increased to (EURO)1.5 billion from around (EURO)340 million in the same period of fiscal-
year 2021.
Load factor improved 14 percentage points year on year to 84%, while passenger traffic increased 286%, although 
the Omicron variant and return of travel restrictions in early December undermined higher-yielding close-in 
Christmas and New Year holiday bookings.
The European low-cost airline group's net loss guidance remains within a wider than normal range of (EURO)250 
million to (EURO)450 million for the 12 months ended 31 March and is "hugely sensitive" to any further positive or 
negative Covid developments, Ryanair said.
"We would caution all shareholders to expect further Covid disruptions before we here in Europe and the rest of the 
world can finally declare that the Covid crisis is behind us," the company stated.
Ryanair held close to (EURO)3 billion of cash as of 31 December, with 90% of its fleet unencumbered.
The group's £600 million ($800 million) UK Covid Corporate Financing Facility loan was repaid in October last year 
with net debt at around (EURO)2.1 billion at the end of last year.
"The strength of Ryanair's balance sheet ensures that the Group is well poised to capitalise rapidly on the many 
growth opportunities that exist in Europe into the post Covid-19 recovery in 2022 and 2023," Ryanair continued.
The company had taken delivery of 41 Boeing 737 Max 8200 aircraft through the end of the third quarter, with 
another 24 units to deliver before the peak summer season this year. Its orderbook with Boeing totals 210 Max 
aircraft.
"Over the next 5-years our traffic will grow by 50% to 225 million per annum. This growth will be delivered on a fleet 
of new B737 "Gamechanger" aircraft, which offer 4% more seats, but burn 16% less fuel and reduce noise 
emissions by 40%," Ryanair's chief executive officer, Michael O'Leary, commented.
Ryanair loss shrinks despite Omicron headwinds
Load-Date: February 21, 2022
End of Document
ALAFCO works on NDR ahead of debut offering
ALAFCO works on NDR ahead of debut offering
AirFinance Journal
January 2022
Copyright 2022 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 381 words
Byline: Laura Mueller
Body
Kuwait's Aviation Lease & Finance Company (ALAFCO) is prepping investors in a non-deal roadshow ahead of a 
planned asset-backed securitisation offering, say people familiar with the process. 
The lessor hopes to tap into a wave of investor demand and make a debut in the ABS market later this year.
In 2021, $9.2 billion of debt was issued in the aircraft ABS market, and a similar amount is expected this year 
"although it is slightly too early to call", according to a banker, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
KPMG notes the "resilience" of the asset class in its 2021 trend report for the ABS market.
"It only took nine months for the aviation ABS market to start coming back from the effects of the pandemic. The 
last pre-Covid-19 issuance was in March of 2020, and the first post-Covid-19 issuance was in January of 2021. On 
the secondary market, where aviation ABS notes were traded, senior notes in some aviation ABS deals were 
trading at, and in excess of, book value all through the pandemic," says KPMG in the report.
"This showed that investor confidence remained in the market. There were seven new aviation ABS deals in the 
first six months of 2021, a brisker pace than any year except 2019... The recovery has been far quicker than 
anticipated, showing investor confidence in a solid structure, honed by the previous crises and now seemingly 
impervious to the worst effects of downturns."
The Kuwaiti lessor recently agreed to lease four Airbus aircraft to Italy's new state-owned carrier ITA Airways for a 
period of 12 years. 
The lessor discloses in a regulatory filing that the list price for the four Rolls-Royce Trent XWB-powered aircraft is 
$1.27 billion.
KPMG notes widebody aircraft are "considered riskier assets and are less prevalent than before" in ABS structures. 
Narrowbodies are "in high demand" as low-cost carriers such as Southwest and Ryanair lead the recovery. Aircraft 
with newer technology "is especially favoured" for their fuel efficiency and because of an increased focus on 
environmental, social, and government concerns in the aviation industry, it adds.
ALAFCO has 70 new aircraft on order from Airbus and Boeing, including 40 A320nes, 10 A321neos and 20 737- 
Max 8 aircraft. The majority of these deliveries are scheduled to start in 2024 and beyond.
ALAFCO works on NDR ahead of debut offering
Load-Date: February 14, 2022
End of Document
Lessors take quarter of Boeing deliveries
Lessors take quarter of Boeing deliveries
AirFinance Journal
January 2022
Copyright 2022 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 613 words
Byline: Olivier Bonnassies
Body
Aircraft leasing companies accounted for approximately a quarter of Boeing commercial deliveries in 2021, 
according to the US manufacturer's data.
Chicago-based Boeing delivered 340 aircraft to customers in 2021, 304 of which were for airlines and leasing 
companies.
Another 36 Boeing aircraft were handed over to business and VIP customers (five Max family aircraft and two 
BBJs), and the military (29 767-2C and 737-800A deliveries).
Lessors represented 77 direct aircraft deliveries out of 304 units, with 72 Max-family deliveries accounting for 93% 
of lessor deliveries.
Boeing recorded 24 deliveries to Air Lease, including 21 Max aircraft and three 787-9s.
The USA-based lessor was the only leasing entity, along with Novus Aviation Capital, receiving widebody units last 
year.
Air Lease topped lessor's Airbus deliveries with 31 direct aircraft deliveries last year.
SMBC Aviation Capital received 15 Max aircraft from the US manufacturer in 2021, while 777 Partners accounted 
for nine Max deliveries.
ICBC Leasing and CDB Leasing received seven and six Max family aircraft, respectively, while Jackson Square 
Aviation and DAE accounted for four aircraft each. Aercap received three Max aircraft during the year while Novus 
Aviation Capital took delivery of two 777-300ERs.   737 Max The 737 Max programme was approved to return to 
service in November 2020 in the USA after being grounded for 20 months. The recertification of the programme in 
different jurisdictions allowed Boeing to resume deliveries in 2021.
Last year Boeing delivered 245 Max units to customers (an average of roughly 20 aircraft per month) including five 
to business and VIP customers.
Lessors take quarter of Boeing deliveries
Lessors represented 30% of commercial aircraft deliveries. On the airline side, Ryanair took delivery of 41 737 Max 
aircraft, while Southwest Airlines received 19 units. TUI Travel and Turkish Airlines received 14 and 13 units, 
respectively.
However leasing companies only represented five of 64 commercial widebody deliveries last year, or 8%, according 
to the data.
The OEM delivered 40 widebody freighters to airline customers, including 19 767Fs, 16 777F and six 747-8Fs.
Boeing deliveries in 2021 accounted for twice the number of the aircraft handed over in 2020 (157 deliveries) but 
below the 380 units delivered the previous year.   Strong Q4 In the fourth quarter, Boeing delivered 96 aircraft 
versus 59 units in the 2020 final quarter.
The OEM delivered 32 737 Max units in December, up from 28 deliveries in November.
China continues to be the major opportunity for the OEM to continue its gradual ramp-up of Max deliveries.
On 2 December 2020, the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) issued an airworthiness directive on 737 
Max aircraft that would remove barriers for the model to return to service in China. As reported by Airfinance 
Journal last month, the issuance of the directive does not mean that 737 Max aircraft will resume flying in China 
immediately because it will take time to proceed with pilots training and subsequent modifications on this model by 
domestic airlines.
Jefferies forecasts 480 Boeing deliveries in 2022, or a rate of approximately 40 units per month, on an estimated 
production rate of 27 units per month.
Leasing companies accounted for 29% of Airbus direct aircraft deliveries last year.
Lessors accounted for 178 new aircraft deliveries, with the top three leasing companies representing 73 units, or 
41% of the lessors' deliveries. This compared with 166 aircraft delivered to lessors in 2020, or 29.3% of the total 
deliveries.
The European OEM handed over 611 aircraft to customers last year, up from 566 units in 2020. This increase 
represented an 8% growth over the year 2020.
Load-Date: January 31, 2022
End of Document
Pendal Group Ltd Makes New $30.95 Million Investment in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Pendal Group Ltd Makes New $30.95 Million Investment in Ryanair Holdings 
plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Watchlist News
December 31, 2021 Friday 2:31 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 942 words
Body
Dec 31, 2021( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Pendal Group Ltd purchased a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the 3rd 
quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm 
purchased 281,168 shares of the transportation company's stock, valued at approximately $30,945,000.  
 Several other institutional investors have also modified their holdings of the company. Baillie Gifford & Co. boosted 
its stake in shares of Ryanair by 2.5% during the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $1,186,170,000 after acquiring an additional 264,133 shares during the 
last quarter. Capital International Investors boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 3.1% during the 2nd quarter. 
Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,067,172,000 after acquiring an additional 294,131 shares during the last quarter. FMR LLC boosted its stake in 
shares of Ryanair by 1.4% during the 2nd quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $681,580,000 after acquiring an additional 87,015 shares during the last quarter. Lazard 
Asset Management LLC boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after 
acquiring an additional 296,366 shares during the last quarter. Finally, William Blair Investment Management LLC 
lifted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 14.3% during the 2nd quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC 
now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $243,862,000 after buying an 
additional 281,774 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.91% of the company's 
stock.  
A number of research firms recently weighed in on RYAAY. Raymond James lowered their target price on shares of 
Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an 'outperform' rating on the stock in a research note on Monday, 
November 29th. UBS Group restated a 'neutral' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, 
September 28th. Morgan Stanley reiterated an 'overweight' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on 
Tuesday, November 2nd. Barclays reiterated an 'overweight' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on 
Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Oddo Bhf cut shares of Ryanair from an 'outperform' rating to a 'neutral' rating in a 
research note on Monday, November 15th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and 
Pendal Group Ltd Makes New $30.95 Million Investment in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
twelve have issued a buy rating to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the company 
currently has a consensus rating of 'Buy' and an average price target of $122.08. 
 Ryanair stock[1] opened at $102.12 on Friday. The stock has a market cap of $23.14 billion, a price-to-earnings 
ratio of -29.01 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a 
quick ratio of 1.34. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $94.68 and a 1 year high of $127.25. The firm has a 
50-day moving average of $107.19 and a two-hundred day moving average of $108.67.  
Ryanair Profile 
 Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
 Read More: Retained Earnings[2] 
 Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Receive News & Ratings for Ryanair Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[4]. 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-are-
retained-earnings/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY&c=Ryanair 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 31, 2021
End of Document
Pendal Group Ltd Makes New $30.95 Million Investment in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Pendal Group Ltd Makes New $30.95 Million Investment in Ryanair Holdings 
plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
December 31, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 595 words
Body
Ryanair Pendal Group Ltd bought a new position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the 
3rd quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the SEC. The fund bought 281,168 shares of the 
transportation company's stock, valued at approximately $30,945,000. Pendal Group Ltd owned 0.12% of Ryanair 
at the end of the most recent quarter.  
A number of other institutional investors and hedge funds also recently made changes to their positions in the 
business. Envestnet Asset Management Inc. increased its position in  Ryanair by 9.4% in the 2nd quarter. 
Envestnet Asset Management Inc. now owns 93,335 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$10,100,000 after buying an additional 8,000 shares in the last quarter.  PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. 
purchased a new position in shares of  Ryanair in the 2nd quarter worth approximately $79,000.  Bbva USA 
purchased a new position in  Ryanair in the second quarter valued at approximately $1,367,000.  Sei Investments 
Co. lifted its stake in  Ryanair by 33.3% in the second quarter. Sei Investments Co. now owns 468,956 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $50,754,000 after purchasing an additional 117,160 shares during the 
last quarter.  Finally, Verdence Capital Advisors LLC lifted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 7.0% during the 
second quarter. Verdence Capital Advisors LLC now owns 5,732 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $620,000 after acquiring an additional 376 shares in the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned 
by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Several research analysts have recently weighed in on the stock. Oddo Bhf cut shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Peel Hunt raised Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Friday, September 17th. UBS Group  reissued a "neutral" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reissued a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. Finally, Raymond James reduced their 
target price on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on the stock in a research note on 
Monday, November 29th. Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued  
a buy rating to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair currently has a consensus 
rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Shares of NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $102.12 on Friday. The stock's 50-day moving average price is $107.19 
and its 200-day moving average price is $108.67. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-
Pendal Group Ltd Makes New $30.95 Million Investment in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
month high of $127.25. The stock has a market capitalization of $23.14 billion, a P/E ratio of -29.01 and a beta of 
1.58. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: What is an Initial Public Offering (IPO)? 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: December 31, 2021
End of Document
Pendal Group Ltd Makes New $30.95 Million Investment in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Pendal Group Ltd Makes New $30.95 Million Investment in Ryanair Holdings 
plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
December 31, 2021 Friday 2:10 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 847 words
Body
Dec 31, 2021( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Pendal Group Ltd bought a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the 3rd 
quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the SEC. The fund bought 281,168 shares of the transportation 
company's stock, valued at approximately $30,945,000. Pendal Group Ltd owned 0.12% of Ryanair at the end of 
the most recent quarter.  
A number of other institutional investors and hedge funds also recently made changes to their positions in the 
business. Envestnet Asset Management Inc. increased its position in Ryanair by 9.4% in the 2nd quarter. Envestnet 
Asset Management Inc. now owns 93,335 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $10,100,000 after 
buying an additional 8,000 shares in the last quarter. PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. purchased a new 
position in shares of Ryanair in the 2nd quarter worth approximately $79,000. Bbva USA purchased a new position 
in Ryanair in the second quarter valued at approximately $1,367,000. Sei Investments Co. lifted its stake in Ryanair 
by 33.3% in the second quarter. Sei Investments Co. now owns 468,956 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $50,754,000 after purchasing an additional 117,160 shares during the last quarter. Finally, 
Verdence Capital Advisors LLC lifted its position in shares of Ryanair by 7.0% during the second quarter. Verdence 
Capital Advisors LLC now owns 5,732 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $620,000 after acquiring 
an additional 376 shares in the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other 
institutional investors.  
Several research analysts have recently weighed in on the stock. Oddo Bhf cut shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Peel Hunt raised Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Friday, September 17th. UBS Group reissued a "neutral" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reissued a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. Finally, Raymond James reduced their 
target price on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on the stock in a research note on 
Monday, November 29th. Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued a 
buy rating to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair currently has a consensus 
rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Shares of NASDAQ:RYAAY[1] opened at $102.12 on Friday. The stock's 50-day moving average price is $107.19 
and its 200-day moving average price is $108.67. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-
Pendal Group Ltd Makes New $30.95 Million Investment in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
month high of $127.25. The stock has a market capitalization of $23.14 billion, a P/E ratio of -29.01 and a beta of 
1.58. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: What is an Initial Public Offering (IPO)?[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-
initial-public-offering-ipo/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 31, 2021
End of Document
New York State Common Retirement Fund Decreases Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
New York State Common Retirement Fund Decreases Stake in Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
December 30, 2021 Thursday 11:11 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 851 words
Body
Dec 30, 2021( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 New York State Common Retirement Fund decreased its position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
1.1% in the 3rd quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the SEC. The fund owned 
194,333 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 2,101 shares during the period. New York State 
Common Retirement Fund's holdings in Ryanair were worth $21,388,000 as of its most recent filing with the SEC.  
A number of other large investors have also recently bought and sold shares of the business. Envestnet Asset 
Management Inc. grew its position in shares of Ryanair by 9.4% during the 2nd quarter. Envestnet Asset 
Management Inc. now owns 93,335 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $10,100,000 after 
acquiring an additional 8,000 shares during the period. PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. bought a new position 
in shares of Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at approximately $79,000. Bbva USA bought a new position in 
shares of Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at approximately $1,367,000. Sei Investments Co. grew its position 
in shares of Ryanair by 33.3% during the 2nd quarter. Sei Investments Co. now owns 468,956 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $50,754,000 after acquiring an additional 117,160 shares during the 
period. Finally, Verdence Capital Advisors LLC grew its position in shares of Ryanair by 7.0% during the 2nd 
quarter. Verdence Capital Advisors LLC now owns 5,732 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$620,000 after acquiring an additional 376 shares during the period. Hedge funds and other institutional investors 
own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
Shares of NASDAQ:RYAAY[1] opened at $102.94 on Thursday. The firm has a fifty day moving average price of 
$107.32 and a two-hundred day moving average price of $108.71. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, 
a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $94.68 and a one year 
high of $127.25. The company has a market cap of $23.33 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -29.24 and a beta of 
1.58.  
A number of research analysts have recently weighed in on the stock. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded shares of 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. 
Oddo Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday, 
November 15th. Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Friday, 
September 17th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on 
Friday, September 17th. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co. reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
New York State Common Retirement Fund Decreases Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
report on Monday, October 25th. Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have 
issued a buy rating to the stock. According to MarketBeat, the stock has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a 
consensus price target of $122.08. 
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Upside/Downside[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/upside-
downside-explained/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 30, 2021
End of Document
Seven out of 10 international flights in or out of the UK were cancelled in 2021
Seven out of 10 international flights in or out of the UK were cancelled in 
2021
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 29, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 490 words
Body
British Airways Boeing 787-9 arrives at London Heathrow LHR
Busiest route was London Heathrow to New York JFK, despite the US travel ban that ended only in November
Seven out of 10 international flights that started or ended in the UK were cancelled in 2021, compared with 2019, 
new data shows.
As Covid-related travel restrictions continued to dampen demand for aviation, airlines have seen a 71 per cent 
collapse in the number of international departures since 2019.
The aviation analyst Cirium says just 406,060 international flights served the UK in 2021, compared with 1,399,170 
two years ago - a fall of almost one million.
London Heathrow saw the most flights, with almost 79,000 in 2021 - though it handled fewer passengers this year 
than in 2020.
In second place was London Stansted with 32,000 flights, followed by Manchester with 29,700.
London Gatwick slumped from second to fourth place with 26,000, while a fourth London airport, Luton, was fifth 
with almost 20,000.
The prime international route in 2021 from the UK was between London Heathrow and New York JFK. This is 
despite the face that the US only admitted British visitors from 8 November onwards, following a 19-month ban.
In second place was London Heathrow to Dublin. All but one of the remaining top 10 destinations were from 
Heathrow, with Amsterdam, Paris Charles de Gaulle and Frankfurt in third, fourth and fifth place.
Gatwick to Dublin is the only top 10 route that was not from Heathrow.
The largest carrier by UK flights was Ryanair, with 101,420 flights in 2021. In second place was easyJet with 82,580 
flights. British Airways, Loganair and Jet2 took third, fourth and fifth places.
Seven out of 10 international flights in or out of the UK were cancelled in 2021
UK domestic flights were down nearly 60 per cent compared with 2019. The busiest in terms of departures - but not 
passengers - was between Land's End in Cornwall and St Mary's in the Isles of Scilly.
The 31-mile link saw around 2,330 one-way flights in 2021 - all operated by Isles of Scilly Skybus's fleet of seven 
aircraft.
Second busiest was Heathrow to Belfast City (1,590 flights). Heathrow to Edinburgh was third at 1,530. Loganair 
was the largest airline for domestic flights with 32,830 services in 2021, just 30 ahead of easyJet. Both carriers 
operated more than twice was many as British Airways (15,390).
Flybe topped the list of domestic flights in 2019, with a total of 87,020 departures. The airline collapsed in March 
2020, as the coronavirus pandemic began.
All Nippon Airways was named as the most punctual airline globally, with Vueling - sister airline of British Airways - 
most reliably on-time in Europe. independent.co.uk
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: January 7, 2022
End of Document
Wednesday papers: Demand for North Sea windfall tax
Wednesday papers: Demand for North Sea windfall tax
Citywire
December 29, 2021 Wednesday 3:05 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 536 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And companies raise over $12tn in ‘blockbuster’ year for global capital markets.
Body
Top stories
•
The Times: The government is facing growing calls for the introduction of a windfall tax on North Sea 
profits to transfer some of the pain of the energy crisis from consumers to producers.
•
Financial Times: Companies raised a record $12.1tn in 2021 by selling stock, issuing debt and inking new 
loans, as a torrent of central bank stimulus and the rapid recovery propelled markets higher.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Huge cargo ships carrying liquid gas that were destined for China have changed 
course and are now heading towards the UK as Europe remains trapped in a major supply crunch.
•
Financial Times: Insolvency practitioners are gearing up for a rise in the number of distressed UK 
companies in 2022 as businesses battle increasing costs, a supply chain squeeze and staff shortages.
Business and economics
•
The Guardian: Staff absences from the Omicron Covid variant are leaving public services in a ‘perilous 
state’, a union leader has said, amid new grim warnings about the variant’s impact on the NHS workforce.
•
The Guardian: UK households face a hit of £1,200 next year as stalling wages and rising tax and energy 
bills cause a ‘cost of living catastrophe’ in the spring, a leading thinktank has warned.
•
The Daily Telegraph: The price of Bitcoin has slid under $50,000 as the cryptocurrency looks set to finish 
the year significantly below the record level it hit in November.
•
Daily Mail: Defence giant BAE Systems will create around 1,700 jobs in the UK next year, mostly in the 
north of England.
•
Daily Mail: The boss of Ryanair has lashed out at regulators for failing to take action against online travel 
agents.
•
The Times: Anne Boden, the chief executive of Starling Bank, has been accused by more than 50 fintech 
company founders of stifling innovation after she said that Britain’s open banking regime had failed.
•
The Times: One in eight jobs in travel and tourism are set to be left unfilled as the new year starts, 
potentially jeopardising the UK’s recovery from the coronavirus, according to an industry body.
Wednesday papers: Demand for North Sea windfall tax
•
Financial Times: The UK boss of PwC said criticism of the audit industry from politicians and regulators 
was harming the profession and risked making it more difficult to attract new recruits.
•
Daily Mail: A South African court has blocked Shell testing for oil and gas off the country’s east coast after 
campaigners claimed it could harm migrating whales.
•
The Guardian: China has accused the US of ignoring international treaty obligations and engaging in 
irresponsible and unsafe conduct in outer space after two near misses between the Chinese space station 
and satellites operated by Elon Musk’s SpaceX company.
•
The Times: Britain’s electricity system got dirtier in 2021 for the first time in eight years as low wind speeds 
left the country burning more gas to keep the lights on and as demand recovered from the pandemic.
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): Charting the course of business in 2021.
•
The Times (Comment): Energy price cap shouldn’t become the status quo as it just leads to more chaos.
•
Financial Times (Comment): Bull market heads into New Year on a shaky foundation.
•
Financial Times (Comment): Boris Johnson’s disregard for checks and balances.
Load-Date: December 29, 2021
End of Document
Insolvencies set to rise with businesses hit on multiple fronts Distress signals
Insolvencies set to rise with businesses hit on multiple fronts; Distress 
signals
Financial Times (London, England)
December 29, 2021 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 589 words
Byline: MICHAEL O'DWYER
Body
Insolvency practitioners are gearing up for a rise in the number of distressed UK companies in 2022 as businesses 
battle increasing costs, a supply chain squeeze, staff shortages and the threat of further coronavirus restrictions. 
The signs that companies were increasingly struggling as pandemic financial support measures tapered off were 
evident in November, when insolvencies in England and Wales hit their highest level since January 2019, according 
to government data.
"The number of macro headwinds that are facing all sectors, but some in particular, are just extraordinary," said 
Adam Gallagher, a restructuring partner at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, a law firm. "They all point to inflation, be it 
energy, logistics, raw materials, freight, wages - the list goes on."
The number of companies falling into insolvency processes such as administration or liquidation plummeted after 
Covid-19 first struck last year. Businesses were propped up by government support such as the furlough scheme 
and taxpayer-backed loans while private investors continued to pump cash into liquidity-starved companies.
That has started to change with the withdrawal or reduction of government support schemes, repayments becoming 
due on government-backed pandemic loans and rising interest rates.
"It has got busier over the past few weeks [and] it will continue to get busier. I cannot see [the government] coming 
back with the same support measures as we had [earlier in the pandemic]," said Blair Nimmo, chief executive of 
Interpath Advisory, the restructuring advisory firm that was spun out of KPMG in May.
Insolvencies set to rise with businesses hit on multiple fronts Distress signals
But with relatively cheap private finance available, few experts say next year will break records. "Do I expect this 
big, massive wall of insolvencies? No, I don't think so," said Nimmo.
Atradius, a trade credit insurer, predicts insolvencies will be 33 per cent higher in 2022 than in 2019. Much of the 
activity so far has been in the energy sector, where surging wholesale prices caused more than two dozen suppliers 
to collapse in the second half of 2021.
Rising fuel costs will affect other sectors, particularly energy-intensive ones such as industrial manufacturing. Kevin 
Ellis, UK chair and senior partner of PwC, the auditor, also expected construction, hospitality and retail to be hit.
Depending on the course of the pandemic, the travel industry could also be vulnerable. In a sign of the uncertainty 
facing the sector, Ryanair warned this month its losses this year could be more than double market expectations 
because of the impact of the Omicron variant. Europe's largest airline by passengers carried said its forecasts were 
"hugely sensitive to any further positive or negative Covid news flow".
Many sectors are struggling in the tight labour market. "We're running a number of care homes [and] we're having 
to run at 75 per cent occupancy because we can't get staff," said Geoff Rowley, chief executive of FRP Advisory, a 
corporate finance and restructuring firm.
Rising costs are also affecting construction. While some builders have benefited from higher house prices, others 
are locked in to fixed-price contracts as labour and materials costs increase.
Rowley said he was advising companies that had "entered into fixed-price contracts three years ago, their projects 
got massively delayed by Covid, material prices have gone through the roof [and] getting staff has become 
problematic".
He added: "They've had to absorb millions of pounds of losses and they don't have a balance sheet to absorb 
millions of pounds of losses."
Graphic
 
Ryanair warned losses could be more than double expectations
Load-Date: December 28, 2021
End of Document
Airline Stock Roundup: RYAAY 's Dim FY22 Traffic View, Flight Cancellations & More
Airline Stock Roundup: RYAAY's Dim FY22 Traffic View, Flight Cancellations 
& More
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
December 29, 2021 Wednesday 5:23 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1550 words
Byline: Maharathi Basu
Body
Dec 29, 2021( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Omicron-induced staff crunch and woeful weather prompted U.S. carriers like Delta Air Lines DAL[1] and United 
Airlines UAL[2] to cancel multiple flights, thereby hampering travel plans of many passengers over the Christmas 
holiday weekend. 
Again due to travel restrictions triggered by the omicron variant, Ryanair Holdings RYAAY[3] trimmed its traffic 
forecast for fiscal 2022. JetBlue Airways JBLU[4] decided to continue operating on the New York JFK-London 
Heathrow route through October next year. 
JetBlue also recently grabbed headlines following its expansion update on its Northeast Alliance with American 
Airlines AAL[5]. This story was covered in detail in the previous week's roundup[6]. Recap of the Latest Top Stories 
1. Ryanair now anticipates fiscal 2022 traffic count to be little less than 100 million passengers compared with the 
previous expectation of just above 100 million. Net loss is expected in the range of €250-€450 million compared 
with the previously guided range of €100-€200 million. RYAAY lowered its December traffic forecast to 9-9.5 million 
passengers from 10-11 million expected earlier due to the effects of government travel restrictions, especially 
France and Germany's ban on UK travelers and the suspension of the EU flights to/from Morocco. The airline 
slashed its planned January schedule by 33%. It now expects January traffic to be 6-7 million compared with 10 
million anticipated previously[7]. RYAAY currently carries a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell). 
You can seethe complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here[8]. 
2. JetBlue extended its daily transatlantic flights between New York JFK) and London Heathrow Airport through 
October 2022 after securing the required take-off and landing slots. The flights launched on Aug 12 2021 are now 
scheduled to run daily until Oct 31, 2022. Before the unveiling of this transatlantic route, travelers had to choose 
from limited flight options with costly tickets between JFK and LHR, especially in the premium travel segment. Since 
launching the route, JetBlue has reduced premium fares by up to 50%. JetBlue's tickets are now up for sale through 
Oct 31, 2022[9]. 
3. Holiday travel was disrupted as the U.S. airlines were forced to cancel multiple flights due to a combination of 
omicron-led manpower crunch and unfavorable weather conditions. For example, United Airlines cancelled more 
than 100 Christmas Eve flights[10]. UAL's senior vice president of flight operations, Bryan Quigley, reportedly[11] 
Airline Stock Roundup: RYAAY 's Dim FY22 Traffic View, Flight Cancellations & More
wrote in a message to the airline's pilots, 'Our current pilot Covid-19 case count is on the rise.' Quigley added, 
'Pilots who have developed symptoms are also in quarantine and we have a high number of pilots on the sick list.' 
Delta also suffered the same issue. Having already called off several flights since the Christmas Eve, DAL canceled 
some more on Monday Dec 27. 
4 In a major boost to airline stocks, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reduced to five days from 10 
the recommended isolation period for the Americans infected with COVID-19. In case the patient is asymptomatic, 
he/she should wear a mask (when around others) for five more days after leaving the isolation zone. Per CDC's 
press release[12], the move to shorten the isolation phase was prompted by the fact that the transmission of SARS-
CoV-2 (virus causing COVID-19) mostly occurs 1-2 days prior to the onset of symptoms and 2-3 days following the 
same. CDC's decision is also a boon for the airlines as it is likely to go a long way in tackling the staffing scarcity, 
which imposed mass flight cancellations over the Christmas weekend. Performance The following table shows the 
price movement of major airline players over the past week and during the last six months. 
Image Source: Zacks Investment Research 
The table above shows that most airline stocks have traded in the green over the past week. However, the gains 
were muted in nature causing the NYSE ARCA Airline Index to increase marginally to $83.63. Over the past six 
months, the NYSE ARCA Airline Index has depreciated 15.6%. What's Next in the Airline Space? Further updates 
on the impact of staff shortage and foul weather on aviation operations are expected in the coming days. 
 More Stock News: This Is Bigger than the iPhone! 
 It could become the mother of all technological revolutions. Apple sold a mere 1 billion iPhones in 10 years but a 
new breakthrough is expected to generate more than 77 billion devices by 2025, creating a $1.3 trillion market. 
 Zacks has just released a Special Report that spotlights this fast-emerging phenomenon and 4 tickers for taking 
advantage of it. If you don't buy now, you may kick yourself in 2022. Click here for the 4 trades  > >[13] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[14] Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[15] 
Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL): Free Stock Analysis Report[16] United Airlines Holdings Inc (UAL): Free Stock Analysis 
Report[17] JetBlue Airways Corporation (JBLU): Free Stock Analysis Report[18] American Airlines Group Inc. 
(AAL): Free Stock Analysis Report[19] To read this article on Zacks.com click here.[20] Zacks Investment 
Research[21] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/DAL 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/UAL 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/JBLU 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/AAL [ 6]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1842380/airline-stock-roundup-
dals-bullish-q4-view-algts-rosy-november-traffic-more?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID03-txt-
1842380 [ 7]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1842903/ryanair-ryaay-cuts-fiscal-2022-guidance-on-omicron-led-
woes?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID01-txt-1842903 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/buy-
list/?ADID=zp_1link&ICID=zpi%20_1link [ 9]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1843018/jetblue-jblu-extends-new-
york-jfk-london-heathrow-service?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID02-txt-1843018 
[ 
10]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1843308/united-airlines-ual-cancels-several-flights-on-omicron-
woes?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID03-txt-1843308 
[ 
11]: 
https://www.cnbc.com/2021/12/26/omicron-drives-christmas-weekend-flight-cancellations-above-1500.html [ 12]: 
https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2021/s1227-isolation-quarantine-guidance.html 
[ 
13]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/4e87?add=1669&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_IOTREPORT_ANALYSTBLOG_213_IND_12292021&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-
1845014 
[ 
14]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1845014 
[ 
15]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1845014 [ 
16]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=DAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
Airline Stock Roundup: RYAAY 's Dim FY22 Traffic View, Flight Cancellations & More
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1845014 
[ 
17]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=UAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1845014 
[ 
18]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=JBLU&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1845014 
[ 
19]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=AAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1845014 
[ 
20]: 
http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1845014/airline-stock-roundup-ryaay-s-dim-fy22-traffic-view-flight-
cancellations-more?cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1845014 [ 21]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 29, 2021
End of Document
Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III Buys Vanguard FTSE Pacific ETF, Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets ...
Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III Buys Vanguard FTSE Pacific ETF, Vanguard 
FTSE Emerging Markets ...
Newstex Blogs 
GuruFocus.com
December 28, 2021 Tuesday 5:11 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 3956 words
Body
Dec 28, 2021( GuruFocus.com: http://www.gurufocus.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Investment company Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III[1] (Current Portfolio[2]) buys Vanguard FTSE Pacific ETF, 
Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets ETF, iShares MSCI Taiwan ETF, iShares MSCI Japan ETF, BTC iShares MSCI 
India ETF, sells Ryanair Holdings PLC, Flutter Entertainment PLC during the 3-months ended 2021Q3, according to 
the most recent filings of the investment company, Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III. As of 2021Q3, Advisors' Inner 
Circle Fund III owns 201 stocks with a total value of $4 million. These are the details of the buys and sells. 
New Purchases: DSY[3], RY4C[4], CRG[5], ZAL[6], JXN[7], Added Positions: VPL[8], VWO[9], EWT[10], EWJ[11], 
INDA[12], NESN[13], EWA[14], ROG[15], EWZ[16], ASML[17], NOVN[18], EWO[19], SHOP[20], NOVO B[21], 
AZN[22], ULVR[23], SAP[24], EIS[25], MC[26], RY[27], EZA[28], DGE[29], SIE[30], MCHI[31], TD[32], EPOL[33], 
TTE[34], GSK[35], HSBA[36], RDSA[37], BP.[38], SU[39], CNR[40], ALV[41], BAS[42], SAN[43], RDSB[44], 
ADYEN[45], BATS[46], RIO[47], AIR[48], BMO[49], OR[50], EWW[51], BNS[52], BAM.A[53], ENB[54], AI[55], 
IBE[56], REL[57], ENEL[58], BNP[59], LONN[60], SAN[61], GLEN[62], CNQ[63], ADS[64], BNTX[65], THD[66], 
CRDA[67], ISP[68], EL[69], DG[70], ABBN[71], ZURN[72], AD[73], INVE B[74], NDA FI[75], ABX[76], CM[77], 
NTR[78], EXPN[79], BAYN[80], DAI[81], DPW[82], DTE[83], VWS[84], ATD.B[85], SAF[86], GMAB[87], ABI[88], 
ATCO A[89], NIBE B[90], CP[91], MFC[92], CSU[93], BHP[94], CS[95], PGHN[96], INGA[97], DSM[98], CFR[99], 
NXPI[100], EIDO[101], AAL[102], LSEG[103], ENI[104], BN[105], RI[106], GEBN[107], DSV[108], HEXA B[109], 
ORSTED[110], EPHE[111], ERUS[112], RKT[113], NG.[114], MUV2[115], RMS[116], KER[117], AMS[118], 
ECH[119], BCE[120], CPG[121], LGEN[122], PRU[123], FERG[124], IFX[125], BMW[126], ENGI[127], SIKA[128], 
UBSG[129], NOKIA[130], NESTE[131], VOLV B[132], WCN[133], AEM[134], FTS[135], SLF[136], T[137], 
BARC[138], VOD[139], LLOY[140], RWE[141], SGO[142], ITX[143], KNEBV[144], PHIA[145], CAST[146], SWED 
A[147], MNDI[148], STM[149], ESSITY B[150], ALC[151], MG[152], SU[153], AHT[154], SN.[155], STLA[156], 
STLA[157], DB1[158], EOAN[159], DWNI[160], TEF[161], WKL[162], SAND[163], VOW3[164], LR[165], ICLR[166], 
VNA[167], EWM[168], WPM[169], SSE[170], BA.[171], SRG[172], CAP[173], ORA[174], ML[175], HOLN[176], 
CSGN[177], UPM[178], HEIA[179], ERIC B[180], INF[181], SREN[182], EVO[183], RACE[184], DHER[185], 
RCI.B[186], BDEV[187], TW.[188], STAN[189], DBK[190], COLO B[191], AGS[192], HM B[193], KINV B[194], 
HEN3[195], WLN[196], TKWY[197], PRX[198], FRE[199], AKZA[200], CRH[201], TGA[202], Sold Out: RYA[203], 
PPBI[204], For the details of DEMOCRACY INTERNATIONAL FUND's stock buys and sells, go to 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio[205] These are the top 5 
Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III Buys Vanguard FTSE Pacific ETF, Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets ...
holdings of DEMOCRACY INTERNATIONAL FUNDVanguard FTSE Pacific ETF (VPL[206]) - 12,248 shares, 
25.88% of the total portfolio. Shares added by 100.49%Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets ETF (VWO[207]) - 5,157 
shares, 6.72% of the total portfolio. Shares added by 100.27%iShares MSCI Taiwan ETF (EWT[208]) - 2,118 
shares, 3.42% of the total portfolio. Shares added by 101.71%iShares MSCI Japan ETF (EWJ[209]) - 1,475 shares, 
2.70% of the total portfolio. Shares added by 101.23%BTC iShares MSCI India ETF (INDA[210]) - 1,310 shares, 
1.66% of the total portfolio. Shares added by 100.92%New Purchase: Dassault Systemes SE (DSY[211]) Advisors' 
Inner Circle Fund III[212] initiated holding in Dassault Systemes SE. The purchase prices were between $40.82 and 
$50.94, with an estimated average price of $46.78. The stock is now traded at around $53.100000. The impact to a 
portfolio due to this purchase was 0.19%. The holding were 141 shares as of 2021-09-30. New Purchase: Ryanair 
Holdings PLC (RY4C[213]) Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III[214] initiated holding in Ryanair Holdings PLC. The 
purchase prices were between $14.77 and $17.36, with an estimated average price of $16.3. The stock is now 
traded at around $16.000000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 0.18%. The holding were 367 
shares as of 2021-09-30. New Purchase: CRH PLC (CRG[215]) Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III[216] initiated holding 
in CRH PLC. The purchase prices were between $40.5 and $45.98, with an estimated average price of $43.19. The 
stock is now traded at around $46.000000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 0.09%. The holding 
were 76 shares as of 2021-09-30. New Purchase: Zalando SE (ZAL[217]) Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III[218] 
initiated holding in Zalando SE. The purchase prices were between $80.16 and $104.65, with an estimated average 
price of $95.1. The stock is now traded at around $70.520000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 
0.05%. The holding were 21 shares as of 2021-09-30. New Purchase: Jackson Financial Inc (JXN[219]) Advisors' 
Inner Circle Fund III[220] initiated holding in Jackson Financial Inc. The purchase prices were between $24.7 and 
$31.45, with an estimated average price of $27.21. The stock is now traded at around $40.500000. The impact to a 
portfolio due to this purchase was 0.01%. The holding were 10 shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: Vanguard FTSE 
Pacific ETF (VPL[221]) Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III[222] added to a holding in Vanguard FTSE Pacific ETF by 
100.49%. The purchase prices were between $78.09 and $83.7, with an estimated average price of $80.66. The 
stock is now traded at around $78.370000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 12.97%. The holding 
were 12,248 shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets ETF (VWO[223]) Advisors' Inner 
Circle Fund III[224] added to a holding in Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets ETF by 100.27%. The purchase prices 
were between $48.42 and $53, with an estimated average price of $50.76. The stock is now traded at around 
$49.340000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 3.36%. The holding were 5,157 shares as of 2021-
09-30. Added: iShares MSCI Taiwan ETF (EWT[225]) Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III[226] added to a holding in 
iShares MSCI Taiwan ETF by 101.71%. The purchase prices were between $58.69 and $63.87, with an estimated 
average price of $62.07. The stock is now traded at around $66.480000. The impact to a portfolio due to this 
purchase was 1.72%. The holding were 2,118 shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: iShares MSCI Japan ETF 
(EWJ[227]) Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III[228] added to a holding in iShares MSCI Japan ETF by 101.23%. The 
purchase prices were between $65.4 and $73.16, with an estimated average price of $68.35. The stock is now 
traded at around $67.340000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 1.36%. The holding were 1,475 
shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: BTC iShares MSCI India ETF (INDA[229]) Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III[230] 
added to a holding in BTC iShares MSCI India ETF by 100.92%. The purchase prices were between $41.21 and 
$47.1, with an estimated average price of $43.88. The stock is now traded at around $45.360000. The impact to a 
portfolio due to this purchase was 0.83%. The holding were 1,310 shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: Nestle SA 
(NESN[231]) Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III[232] added to a holding in Nestle SA by 100.79%. The purchase prices 
were between $109.96 and $116.98, with an estimated average price of $114.82. The stock is now traded at 
around $127.320000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 0.8%. The holding were 508 shares as of 
2021-09-30. Sold Out: Flutter Entertainment PLC (PPBI[233]) Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III[234] sold out a holding 
in Flutter Entertainment PLC. The sale prices were between $143.45 and $184.6, with an estimated average price 
of $160.75. Sold Out: Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYA[235]) Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III[236] sold out a holding in 
Ryanair Holdings PLC. The sale prices were between $14.73 and $17.35, with an estimated average price of 
$16.25.  
Here is the complete portfolio of DEMOCRACY INTERNATIONAL FUND[237]. Also check out: 
1. DEMOCRACY INTERNATIONAL FUND's Undervalued Stocks[238] 2. DEMOCRACY INTERNATIONAL FUND's 
Top Growth Companies[239], and 3. DEMOCRACY INTERNATIONAL FUND's High Yield stocks[240] 4. Stocks 
that DEMOCRACY INTERNATIONAL FUND keeps buying[241] 
Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III Buys Vanguard FTSE Pacific ETF, Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets ...
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DSY 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RY4C 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CRG 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ZAL 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/JXN 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/VPL 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/VWO 
[ 
10]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EWT 
[ 
11]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EWJ 
[ 
12]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/INDA 
[ 
13]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NESN 
[ 
14]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EWA 
[ 
15]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ROG 
[ 
16]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EWZ 
[ 
17]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ASML 
[ 
18]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NOVN 
[ 
19]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EWO 
[ 
20]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SHOP 
[ 
21]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/advisors-inner-circle-fund-iii-buys-vanguard-ftse-pacific-etf-vanguard-
ftse-emerging-markets-etf-ishares-msci-taiwan-etf-sells-ryanair-holdings-plc-flutter-entertainment-plc 
[ 
22]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AZN 
[ 
23]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ULVR 
[ 
24]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SAP 
[ 
25]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EIS 
[ 
26]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/MC 
[ 
27]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RY 
[ 
28]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EZA 
[ 
29]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DGE 
[ 
30]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SIE 
[ 
31]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/MCHI 
[ 
32]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TD 
[ 
33]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EPOL 
[ 
34]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TTE 
[ 
35]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/GSK 
[ 
36]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HSBA 
[ 
37]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RDSA 
[ 
38]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BP. 
[ 
39]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SU 
[ 
40]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CNR 
[ 
41]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ALV 
[ 
42]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BAS 
[ 
43]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SAN 
[ 
44]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RDSB 
[ 
45]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ADYEN 
[ 
46]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BATS 
[ 
47]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RIO 
[ 
48]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AIR 
[ 
49]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BMO 
[ 
50]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/OR 
[ 
51]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EWW 
[ 
52]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BNS 
[ 
53]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BAM.A 
[ 
54]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ENB 
[ 
55]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AI 
[ 
56]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/IBE 
[ 
57]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/REL 
[ 
58]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ENEL 
[ 
59]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BNP 
[ 
60]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/LONN 
[ 
61]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SAN 
[ 
62]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/GLEN 
[ 
63]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CNQ 
[ 
64]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ADS 
[ 
65]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BNTX 
[ 
66]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/THD 
[ 
67]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CRDA 
[ 
68]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ISP 
[ 
69]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EL 
[ 
70]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DG 
[ 
71]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ABBN 
[ 
72]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ZURN 
[ 
73]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AD 
[ 
74]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/advisors-inner-circle-fund-iii-buys-vanguard-ftse-pacific-etf-vanguard-
ftse-emerging-markets-etf-ishares-msci-taiwan-etf-sells-ryanair-holdings-plc-flutter-entertainment-plc 
[ 
75]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/advisors-inner-circle-fund-iii-buys-vanguard-ftse-pacific-etf-vanguard-
ftse-emerging-markets-etf-ishares-msci-taiwan-etf-sells-ryanair-holdings-plc-flutter-entertainment-plc 
[ 
76]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ABX 
[ 
77]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CM 
[ 
78]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NTR 
[ 
79]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EXPN 
[ 
80]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BAYN 
[ 
81]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DAI 
[ 
82]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DPW 
[ 
83]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DTE 
[ 
84]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/VWS 
[ 
85]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ATD.B 
[ 
86]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SAF 
[ 
87]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/GMAB 
[ 
88]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ABI [ 89]: https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/advisors-inner-circle-fund-iii-
buys-vanguard-ftse-pacific-etf-vanguard-ftse-emerging-markets-etf-ishares-msci-taiwan-etf-sells-ryanair-holdings-
plc-flutter-entertainment-plc [ 90]: https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/advisors-inner-circle-fund-iii-buys-
vanguard-ftse-pacific-etf-vanguard-ftse-emerging-markets-etf-ishares-msci-taiwan-etf-sells-ryanair-holdings-plc-
Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III Buys Vanguard FTSE Pacific ETF, Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets ...
flutter-entertainment-plc [ 91]: https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CP [ 92]: https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/MFC [ 
93]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CSU 
[ 
94]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BHP 
[ 
95]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CS 
[ 
96]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/PGHN 
[ 
97]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/INGA 
[ 
98]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DSM 
[ 
99]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CFR 
[ 
100]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NXPI 
[ 
101]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EIDO 
[ 
102]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AAL 
[ 
103]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/LSEG 
[ 
104]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ENI 
[ 
105]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BN 
[ 
106]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RI 
[ 
107]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/GEBN 
[ 
108]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DSV 
[ 
109]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/advisors-inner-circle-fund-iii-buys-vanguard-ftse-pacific-etf-vanguard-
ftse-emerging-markets-etf-ishares-msci-taiwan-etf-sells-ryanair-holdings-plc-flutter-entertainment-plc 
[ 
110]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ORSTED 
[ 
111]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EPHE 
[ 
112]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ERUS 
[ 
113]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RKT 
[ 
114]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NG. 
[ 
115]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/MUV2 
[ 
116]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RMS 
[ 
117]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/KER 
[ 
118]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AMS 
[ 
119]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ECH 
[ 
120]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BCE 
[ 
121]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CPG 
[ 
122]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/LGEN 
[ 
123]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/PRU 
[ 
124]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/FERG 
[ 
125]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/IFX 
[ 
126]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BMW 
[ 
127]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ENGI 
[ 
128]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SIKA 
[ 
129]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/UBSG 
[ 
130]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NOKIA 
[ 
131]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NESTE 
[ 
132]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/advisors-inner-circle-fund-iii-buys-vanguard-ftse-pacific-etf-vanguard-
ftse-emerging-markets-etf-ishares-msci-taiwan-etf-sells-ryanair-holdings-plc-flutter-entertainment-plc 
[ 
133]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/WCN 
[ 
134]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AEM 
[ 
135]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/FTS 
[ 
136]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SLF 
[ 
137]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/T 
[ 
138]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BARC 
[ 
139]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/VOD 
[ 
140]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/LLOY 
[ 
141]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RWE 
[ 
142]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SGO 
[ 
143]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ITX 
[ 
144]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/KNEBV 
[ 
145]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/PHIA 
[ 
146]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CAST 
[ 
147]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/advisors-inner-circle-fund-iii-buys-vanguard-ftse-pacific-etf-vanguard-
ftse-emerging-markets-etf-ishares-msci-taiwan-etf-sells-ryanair-holdings-plc-flutter-entertainment-plc 
[ 
148]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/MNDI 
[ 
149]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/STM 
[ 
150]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/advisors-inner-circle-fund-iii-buys-vanguard-ftse-pacific-etf-vanguard-
ftse-emerging-markets-etf-ishares-msci-taiwan-etf-sells-ryanair-holdings-plc-flutter-entertainment-plc 
[ 
151]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ALC 
[ 
152]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/MG 
[ 
153]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SU 
[ 
154]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AHT 
[ 
155]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SN. 
[ 
156]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/STLA 
[ 
157]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/STLA 
[ 
158]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DB1 
[ 
159]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EOAN 
[ 
160]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DWNI 
[ 
161]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TEF 
[ 
162]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/WKL 
[ 
163]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SAND 
[ 
164]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/VOW3 
[ 
165]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/LR 
[ 
166]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ICLR 
[ 
167]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/VNA 
[ 
168]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EWM 
[ 
169]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/WPM 
[ 
170]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SSE 
[ 
171]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BA. 
[ 
172]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SRG 
[ 
173]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CAP 
[ 
174]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ORA 
[ 
175]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ML 
[ 
176]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HOLN 
[ 
177]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CSGN 
[ 
178]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/UPM 
[ 
179]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HEIA [ 180]: https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/advisors-inner-circle-fund-
iii-buys-vanguard-ftse-pacific-etf-vanguard-ftse-emerging-markets-etf-ishares-msci-taiwan-etf-sells-ryanair-holdings-
plc-flutter-entertainment-plc 
[ 
181]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/INF 
[ 
182]: 
Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III Buys Vanguard FTSE Pacific ETF, Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets ...
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SREN 
[ 
183]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EVO 
[ 
184]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RACE 
[ 
185]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DHER 
[ 
186]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RCI.B 
[ 
187]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BDEV 
[ 
188]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TW. 
[ 
189]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/STAN 
[ 
190]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DBK [ 191]: https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/advisors-inner-circle-fund-
iii-buys-vanguard-ftse-pacific-etf-vanguard-ftse-emerging-markets-etf-ishares-msci-taiwan-etf-sells-ryanair-holdings-
plc-flutter-entertainment-plc 
[ 
192]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AGS 
[ 
193]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/advisors-inner-circle-fund-iii-buys-vanguard-ftse-pacific-etf-vanguard-
ftse-emerging-markets-etf-ishares-msci-taiwan-etf-sells-ryanair-holdings-plc-flutter-entertainment-plc 
[ 
194]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/advisors-inner-circle-fund-iii-buys-vanguard-ftse-pacific-etf-vanguard-
ftse-emerging-markets-etf-ishares-msci-taiwan-etf-sells-ryanair-holdings-plc-flutter-entertainment-plc 
[ 
195]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HEN3 
[ 
196]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/WLN 
[ 
197]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TKWY 
[ 
198]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/PRX 
[ 
199]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/FRE 
[ 
200]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AKZA 
[ 
201]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CRH 
[ 
202]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TGA 
[ 
203]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RYA 
[ 
204]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/PPBI 
[ 
205]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
206]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARCA:VPL/summary 
[ 
207]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARCA:VWO/summary 
[ 
208]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARCA:EWT/summary 
[ 
209]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARCA:EWJ/summary 
[ 
210]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BATS:INDA/summary 
[ 
211]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/XPAR:DSY/summary 
[ 
212]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
213]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/XTER:RY4C/summary 
[ 
214]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
215]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/FRA:CRG/summary 
[ 
216]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
217]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/XTER:ZAL/summary 
[ 
218]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
219]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:JXN/summary 
[ 
220]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
221]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARCA:VPL/summary 
[ 
222]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
223]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARCA:VWO/summary 
[ 
224]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
225]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARCA:EWT/summary 
[ 
226]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
227]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARCA:EWJ/summary 
[ 
228]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
229]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BATS:INDA/summary 
[ 
230]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
231]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/XSWX:NESN/summary 
[ 
232]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
233]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CHIX:PPBI 
[ 
234]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
235]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/LSE:RYA 
[ 
236]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
237]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1604406/%5C 
[ 
238]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfolioundervalued 
[ 
239]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfoliotop-growth 
[ 
240]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfoliotop-yield 
[ 
241]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/democracy+international+fund/current-portfolio/portfoliohigh-convicton 
Advisors' Inner Circle Fund III Buys Vanguard FTSE Pacific ETF, Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets ...
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 28, 2021
End of Document
Rothschild & Co Wealth Management UK Ltd Sells 57,163 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Rothschild & Co Wealth Management UK Ltd Sells 57,163 Shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
December 27, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 579 words
Body
Ryanair Rothschild & Co Wealth Management UK Ltd lessened its position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 5.8% in the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the 
Securities & Exchange Commission. The firm owned 936,055 shares of the transportation company's stock after 
selling 57,163 shares during the period. Ryanair makes up  approximately  1.7% of Rothschild & Co Wealth 
Management UK Ltd's investment portfolio, making the stock its 13th largest position. Rothschild & Co Wealth 
Management UK Ltd owned about 0.41% of Ryanair worth $103,022,000 at the end of the most recent reporting 
period.  
Other hedge funds have also recently bought and sold shares of the company. WealthShield Partners LLC grew its 
stake in shares of  Ryanair by 638.2% during the second quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 shares 
of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after buying an additional 217 shares during the last quarter.  
Advisory Services Network LLC acquired a new position in  Ryanair in the second quarter valued at approximately 
$46,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. grew its position in shares of  Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd 
quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$58,000 after buying an additional 463 shares during the period.  PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. bought a 
new stake in shares of  Ryanair in the 2nd quarter valued at $79,000.  Finally, Park Avenue Securities LLC bought 
a new position in  Ryanair during the third quarter worth $223,000. Hedge funds and other institutional investors 
own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
Several equities analysts recently weighed in on the stock. Barclays  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Raymond James lowered their price target on Ryanair 
from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a research report on Monday, 
November 29th. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market 
perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. UBS Group  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair 
in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co.  restated a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold 
rating and twelve have assigned  a buy rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat, Ryanair presently 
has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $104.84 on Monday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $94.68 and a 1-year 
high of $127.25. The firm's 50-day moving average price is $107.75 and its 200-day moving average price is 
Rothschild & Co Wealth Management UK Ltd Sells 57,163 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
$108.86. The company has a market capitalization of $23.76 billion, a PE ratio of -29.78 and a beta of 1.58. The 
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34.  
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: Short Selling Stocks, A Beginnerâ€™s Guide  
Load-Date: December 27, 2021
End of Document
M&T Bank Corp Raises Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
M&T Bank Corp Raises Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
December 27, 2021 Monday 10:05 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 855 words
Body
Dec 27, 2021( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 M&T Bank Corp increased its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 5.3% in the 3rd 
quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the SEC. The institutional investor owned 3,115 shares of the 
transportation company's stock after purchasing an additional 156 shares during the quarter. M&T Bank Corp's 
holdings in Ryanair were worth $343,000 as of its most recent filing with the SEC.  
Several other institutional investors and hedge funds have also recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. Lazard 
Asset Management LLC grew its holdings in Ryanair by 6.3% in the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after buying an 
additional 296,366 shares in the last quarter. Capital International Investors grew its holdings in Ryanair by 3.1% in 
the 2nd quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $1,067,172,000 after buying an additional 294,131 shares in the last quarter. William Blair Investment 
Management LLC grew its holdings in Ryanair by 14.3% in the 2nd quarter. William Blair Investment Management 
LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $243,862,000 after buying an 
additional 281,774 shares in the last quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. grew its holdings in Ryanair by 2.5% in the 3rd 
quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$1,186,170,000 after buying an additional 264,133 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Bank of America Corp DE 
grew its holdings in Ryanair by 17.8% in the 2nd quarter. Bank of America Corp DE now owns 1,194,585 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $129,266,000 after buying an additional 180,625 shares in the last 
quarter. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
A number of equities analysts have recently weighed in on the company. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. Credit Suisse Group 
reiterated an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Morgan Stanley 
reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. UBS Group 
reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Finally, Barclays 
reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Five equities 
research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued a buy rating to the stock. Based 
on data from MarketBeat.com, the stock has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
RYAAY stock[1] opened at $104.84 on Monday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $94.68 and a 1 year high 
of $127.25. The firm has a market capitalization of $23.76 billion, a P/E ratio of -29.78 and a beta of 1.58. The 
M&T Bank Corp Raises Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. The business's 50-day 
moving average is $107.75 and its two-hundred day moving average is $108.86.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: What is the Russell 2000 Index?[2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/what-is-the-cboe-russell-2000-volatility-Index/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 27, 2021
End of Document
The Naughtiest Airline Passengers of 2021
The Naughtiest Airline Passengers of 2021
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 25, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 985 words
Body
The Year's Worst Travelers
The past year saw air travel return to pre-pandemic levels but with it, there was an alarming rise in disruptive and 
sometimes violent behavior that diverted flights and kept the No Fly List growing in some cases. As the year comes 
to a close, here's a look back at some of the most despicable airline passenger behavior of 2021.
Frustrated Passenger Makes Fake Bomb Threat
On January 31, a passenger frustrated by flight delays at Oakland International Airport made matters far worse 
when they caused an entire terminal to be shut down for two hours after issuing a fake bomb threat.
Ryanair Passengers Goes on Drunken Rampage
A 24-year-old man went on a drunken rampage aboard a Ryanair flight in January, refusing to wear a face mask, 
making threats, touching a female flight attendant and even headbutting another crew member. The flight couldn't 
be diverted due to pandemic-related closures but did land 25 minutes early in Manchester, England.
Rowdy Passenger Zip-Tied After Trying Cabin Door
In February, a passenger had to be subdued with zip ties after allegedly assaulting a flight attendant and trying to 
open a cabin door on a Delta Air Lines flight from Atlanta to Boston. "Basically the remainder of the flight, he was 
just screaming, 'Let me out of here, this isn't my home,'" passenger Mark French told WCVB.
Unruly Passenger Attacks Flight Crew, Cockpit
A passenger forced an Air France flight to make an emergency landing in March after becoming incredibly 
disruptive. The man allegedly got into verbal altercations with other travelers, assaulted a flight attendant and even 
ran at the cockpit, attacking the door with his hands.
Passenger Gets Physical, Pees at His Seat
The Naughtiest Airline Passengers of 2021
An Alaska Airlines passenger was arrested in March after refusing to wear a mask, pushing a flight attendant, 
exposing himself and urinating in a bag at his seat. What's more, the incident occurred while pilots were battling a 
mechanical issue that forced an emergency landing back in Denver.
Passenger Tries To Bite Seatmate's Ear Off
A Miami-bound United Airlines flight was diverted to Charleston, South Carolina in March after a passenger 
possessing methamphetamine allegedly punched his seatmate and attempted to bite his ear off. The 45-year-old 
was eventually restrained with zip ties and a belt.
TSA Finds a Surprise Inside of a Burrito
Security officials find all sorts of bizarre things as passengers pass through checkpoints. In April, TSA officers in 
Houston busted a passenger attempting to smuggle crystal meth inside of a breakfast burrito.
Woman Goes Berserk Over Failing Phone Charger
A passenger on an American Airlines flight from Tokyo to Dallas caused a "Level Three Lockdown" and diversion to 
Seattle in May after she became irate when her phone wouldn't charge at her seat outlet. The woman had to be 
restrained with plastic handcuffs after allegedly shouting at and assaulting a flight attendant and banging on the 
flight deck door.
Airline Employee Threatens Flight
In a bizarre incident aboard a Delta Air Lines flight in June, an off-duty airline employee allegedly threatened to 
"take down the plane" and attacked two flight attendants, forcing pilots to make an emergency landing. Fortunately, 
no injuries were reported and the flight was able to resume on its scheduled path after the man was removed.
Disgusting Anti-Mask Outburst
A 23-year-old woman was forced off of a flight at Southwest Florida International Airport in Fort Myers over the 
summer after refusing to wear a mask, becoming aggressive toward the flight crew and allegedly spitting on other 
passengers. The woman was hit with several charges, including interfering with aircraft operations, resisting officers 
and trespassing after being escorted off the plane by police.
Crew Uses Duct Tape To Subdue Unruly Passenger
The morality of duct-taping unruly passengers to their seats was brought into question in 2021 after several 
headline-grabbing incidents, including one involving a belligerent passenger on an American Airlines flight from 
Dallas to Charlotte in July. The woman apparently had a breakdown before physically attacking the flight crew and 
attempting to open an exterior door in mid-air, leaving the crew with little choice but to restrain her in her seat until 
the flight could land.
Man Turns Baggage Fee Beef Into Bomb Threat
A 74-year-old Canadian man caused quite the stir at Fort-Lauderdale Hollywood International Airport in July when 
he grew frustrated with Air Canada's baggage fee policy, telling an employee that he had a bomb in his bag, 
resulting in a "complete shutdown of airport operations for over four hours."
Passenger Charges Cockpit, Chokes Crew Member
In September, a JetBlue passenger was hit with federal charges after allegedly charging the cockpit, demanding to 
be shot and choking a flight attendant with his tie. The incident occurred after the man tried and failed to make a 
phone call with about 30 minutes left in the flight from Boston to San Juan, Puerto Rico. The crew used "four seat-
belt extenders, a new pair of flex cuffs and a uniform necktie" to restrain the man.
The Naughtiest Airline Passengers of 2021
Man Commits Laundry List of Despicable Mid-Flight Acts
The FAA recently proposed a $40,823 fine for a man accused of committing a bevy of crimes aboard a Southwest 
Airlines flight in April. The out-of-control passenger was caught drinking alcohol he brought on board before 
allegedly sexually assaulting a flight attendant, locking himself in a restroom and smoking marijuana. He even 
resisted arrest when police boarded the flight upon landing in San Diego.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: January 4, 2022
End of Document
Ninety One UK Ltd Increases Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Ninety One UK Ltd Increases Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
December 24, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 575 words
Body
Ryanair Ninety One UK Ltd increased its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 46.3% in the third 
quarter, according to its most recent 13F filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The institutional 
investor  owned 32,629 shares of the transportation company's stock after purchasing an additional 10,325 shares 
during the quarter. Ninety One UK Ltd's holdings in Ryanair were worth $3,591,000 at the end of the most recent 
quarter.  
Other large investors have also bought and sold shares of the company. WealthShield Partners LLC increased its 
holdings in  Ryanair by 638.2% during the 2nd quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $27,000 after acquiring an additional 217 shares in the last quarter.  
Advisory Services Network LLC purchased a new position in  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at about 
$46,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. increased its holdings in  Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd 
quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued 
at $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares in the last quarter.  PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. 
purchased a new position in  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at about $79,000.  Finally, Park Avenue 
Securities LLC purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the third quarter worth about $223,000. Hedge 
funds and other institutional investors own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
RYAAY  opened at $104.84 on Friday. The firm has a market capitalization of $23.76 billion, a P/E ratio of -29.78 
and a beta of 1.58. The firm's 50 day moving average is $108.01 and its 200-day moving average is $109.01. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week high of $127.25. The company has a quick ratio 
of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
A number of equities research analysts have recently commented on the stock. Oddo Bhf downgraded shares of 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Raymond James 
lowered their price target on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the 
company in a report on Monday, November 29th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  reiterated a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reissued a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Finally, Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair from a 
"hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Five equities research analysts have 
rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued  a buy rating to the stock. According to MarketBeat, the 
company currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
Ninety One UK Ltd Increases Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: What is a back-end load?  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: December 24, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair warns full-year losses could double; Airlines
Ryanair warns full-year losses could double; Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
December 24, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 385 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS
Body
Ryanair has warned losses for its financial year could be more than double what it feared and has slashed flying 
schedules in response to the rapid spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant and travel restrictions across Europe.
The low-cost carrier issued guidance forecasting losses for the financial year ending in March to rise from between 
(EURO)100m and (EURO)200m to a range of (EURO)250m-(EURO)450m.
In a sign of the uncertainty facing the industry, Ryanair also warned the latest forecast was "hugely sensitive to any 
further positive or negative Covid news flow".
The sudden emergence of the variant had "notably weakened close-in Christmas and New Year bookings", Ryanair 
said in a statement.
The warning is the most detailed information yet on how travel bans have hit bookings across what is normally a 
busy period for European airlines.
Industry executives had been hoping that the worst of the pandemic was well behind them and had celebrated the 
steady easing since the summer of most travel restrictions, including expensive testing. Instead, the outlook has 
again darkened nearly two years into the crisis for aviation.
Ryanair pointed in particular to the decisions by French and German governments to ban most travellers from the 
UK, and the suspension of all EU flights to and from Morocco.
Ryanair warns full-year losses could double; Airlines
In response, the airline said it expected to carry fewer passengers than previously forecast in December, and cut its 
January flying schedules by 33 per cent. Taken together, Ryanair said it expected to carry "just under" 100m 
passengers in its financial year, down from its previous guidance of above 100m.
The airline has not yet decided whether to cut flight plans for February and March but said it would revisit its 
schedules "as more scientific information becomes available".
Alex Irving, an aviation analyst at Bernstein, said: "The most important catalysts for a return of passengers are an 
end to negative news flow on Omicron, limiting customers' hesitance in booking, and restrictions on travel rolling 
off."
Airlines across the continent have built walls of capital to see them though a second quiet winter in a row, but are 
reliant on a stronger summer in 2022.
The next critical test for the industry will be whether revenue from summer bookings stands up to the negative news 
flow about travel.
Graphic
 
Ryanair expects losses for its financial year will rise from between (EURO)100m and (EURO)200m to 
(EURO)250m-(EURO)450m
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
Wizz Air is closing in on becoming a low-cost market leader
Wizz Air is closing in on becoming a low-cost market leader
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
December 24, 2021 Friday 7:45 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 464 words
Highlight: After picking up another 15 slots at Gatwick due to Norwegian Air's bankruptcy in 2020, Wizz Air is 
closing in on Europe's leading budget carriers as the airline industry prepares to progress into an unpredictable 
2022.
Body
Wizz Air's expansion demonstrates its financial resilienceWhile many airlines have looked to scale-back operations, 
Wizz Air has attempted to expand routes and develop new markets. Since 2020, according to its website, the low-
cost airline has developed routes to the Middle East, Italy, Ukraine, Spain, and the UK from airports all over Europe. 
The budget carrier has been ruthless in its expansion, taking advantage of pandemic-related bankruptcies to 
Alitalia, Flybe and Norwegian Air, amongst many others. 
All in all, 220 new routes were added in 2020, highlighting the ambition of Wizz Air. Wizz Air has not shied away 
from possible M&A activity either, after a failed takeover bid of Europe's second-largest low-cost airline, easyJet. 
Furthermore, in October 2021, Wizz Air CEO József Váradi said that the airline was open to acquisitions. This 
announcement provides insight into the carrier's future strategic direction. During times of financial hardship, 
consolidation is expected in the travel industry. Therefore, we will likely see developments in this area over the next 
few years. M&A activity in the airline industry after the 2009 global recession is a recent example of this, where US 
carriers such as United and Continental Airlines merged in order to strengthen their presence in the market. Wizz 
has proven itself to be one of the few financially robust aviation companies throughout the pandemic, allowing it to 
lay the foundations for future growth. In June 2020, József Váradi, highlighted that the airline was one of the 
strongest in the world in terms of liquidity. As a result, it had a large amount of free-flowing capital to tackle the 
pandemic, enabling it to respond quickly to changes in demand. The low-cost market is still in high demandLow-
cost travel will be a major trend in travel and tourism as the pandemic eases. According to GlobalData's Q3 2021 
Global Consumer survey, 53% of respondents said affordability was the biggest influencing factor when choosing a 
holiday, while 51% said that accessibility was the most important. Wizz Air's low-cost product and expansive route 
network are well-positioned to capture future demand. However, while its future looks positive, it must battle with 
easyJet and Ryanair, two more experienced players when it comes to weathering unpredictable markets. 
Furthermore, the launch of new Icelandic budget carrier PLAY Airline, the relaunch of Flybe and the creation of 
Wizz Air is closing in on becoming a low-cost market leader
BA's new low-cost airline, Euroflyer (due to begin operations in March 2022) will create a challenging environment 
for Wizz Air, which could drive down fares even further. Nevertheless, if Wizz Air continues on its current path and 
maintains its positive growth strategy, it could emerge as Europe's leading low-cost airline in years to come.
Load-Date: January 6, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives $132.08 Consensus Target Price from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Receives $132.08 Consensus Target 
Price from Brokerages
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
December 24, 2021 Friday 11:11 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 767 words
Body
Dec 24, 2021( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has been given an average rating of "Buy" by the eighteen ratings firms 
that are covering the company, MarketBeat.com[1] reports. Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a 
hold recommendation and twelve have assigned a buy recommendation to the company. The average 12 month 
price target among brokers that have issued ratings on the stock in the last year is $132.08.  
A number of equities research analysts have recently issued reports on RYAAY shares. JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
restated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Sanford C. Bernstein 
lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, 
November 8th. Morgan Stanley restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on 
Tuesday, November 2nd. Oddo Bhf lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research 
report on Monday, November 15th. Finally, Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. 
NASDAQ:RYAAY[2] traded up $1.10 during trading hours on Friday, hitting $104.84. 279,145 shares of the stock 
were exchanged, compared to its average volume of 339,121. Ryanair has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week 
high of $127.25. The firm's fifty day moving average price is $108.01 and its 200 day moving average price is 
$109.01. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The 
company has a market cap of $23.76 billion, a P/E ratio of -29.78 and a beta of 1.58.  
Hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently made changes to their positions in the company. Bank 
of New York Mellon Corp increased its holdings in Ryanair by 1.0% in the third quarter. Bank of New York Mellon 
Corp now owns 1,464,054 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $161,134,000 after buying an 
additional 14,166 shares during the last quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC increased its holdings in Ryanair by 
0.8% in the third quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $325,096,000 after buying an additional 23,924 shares during the last quarter. Rehmann 
Capital Advisory Group purchased a new position in Ryanair in the third quarter valued at $212,000. Migdal 
Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. purchased a new position in Ryanair in the third quarter valued at $91,000. 
Finally, Squarepoint Ops LLC purchased a new position in Ryanair in the third quarter valued at $1,299,000. 
Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives $132.08 Consensus Target Price from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Return on Equity (ROE)[3] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/calculate-return-on-equity/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 24, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair warns its losses could double Briefing
Ryanair warns its losses could double; Briefing
Financial Times (London, England)
December 24, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 29 words
Body
The budget airline has warned that losses could be much worse than feared as it slashed flying schedules in 
response to travel curbs in Europe amid the spread of Omicron.? PAGE 11
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
24 December 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
24 December 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
Newstex Blogs 
AirInsight
December 24, 2021 Friday 7:11 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 750 words
Byline: Ernest Arvai
Body
Dec 24, 2021( AirInsight: http://airinsight.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Welcome to Morning Call for 24 December 2021, and the Top Aviation News Stories for today. You can also 
search our archives[1] for older news stories by date. Morning Call's normal publication will be suspended until 3 
January 2022 for the holiday season. We wish you all the best for the holidays and a healthy, happy and 
prosperous 2022. AirInsight US Airline Index 
https://i2.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/Traffic-thru-22-Dec-21.jpg?ssl=1 
https://i0.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/Table-thru-20-Dec-
21.jpg?ssl=1https://i2.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/Graph-thru-20-Dec-21.jpg?ssl=1 
Commercial Aviation 
Boeing and Airbus join FAA in calling for 5G rollout delays over interference fears - ZDNet[2] Airbus slots A350F 
between twinjet family's passenger models - Flight Global[3] Boeing and the ongoing evolution of director 
responsibilities - LexBlog[4] Boeing 777 is targeted by FAA for fixes after engine broke apart - BNN[5] Liebherr-
Aerospace Brasil receives new Embraer approvals - Asian Av[6] 
 Business Aviation 
 Bizjet deliveries to reach near 700 in 2021 - AIN[7] Archer completes first hover flight of Maker aircraft - BAN[8] 
 Airlines 
 Only the lawyers will win in Qatar v Airbus spat - Asian Av[9] Airbus A321LR to enter service for first time in Japan 
- Japan Today[10] SAS completes first long-haul flight with brand new Airbus A321LR - Av24[11] Ryanair more than 
doubles FY loss forecast due to Omicron restrictions- London SE[12] 
 Urban Air Mobility 
 Joby advances work on eVTOL radar with INRAS acquisition - Future Flight[13] 
 Social Media 
 Blue Angels flying in formation - Twitter[14] 
Please follow and like us: 
 [ 
1]: 
https://airinsight.com/?s=morning+call&et_pb_searchform_submit=et_search_proccess&et_pb_include_posts=yes [ 
2]: https://www.zdnet.com/article/boeing-and-airbus-join-faa-in-calling-for-5g-rollout-delays-over-interference-fears/ [ 
3]: 
https://www.flightglobal.com/air-transport/airbus-slots-a350f-between-twinjet-familys-passenger-
24 December 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
models/146939.article [ 4]: https://www.lexblog.com/2021/12/21/guest-post-boeing-and-the-ongoing-evolution-of-
director-responsibilities/?s=09 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.bnnbloomberg.ca/boeing-777-is-targeted-by-faa-for-fixes-after-
engine-broke-apart-1.1699483 
[ 
6]: 
https://asianaviation.com/liebherr-aerospace-brasil-receives-new-embraer-
approvals/ [ 7]: https://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/business-aviation/2021-12-20/bizjet-deliveries-reach-near-
700-2021 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.businessairnews.com/mag_story.html?ident=23325 
[ 
9]: 
https://asianaviation.com/viewpoint-only-the-lawyers-will-win-in-qatar-v-airbus-spat/ 
[ 
10]: 
https://japantoday.com/category/features/travel/airbus-a321lr-to-enter-service-for-first-time-in-japan 
[ 
11]: 
https://www.aviation24.be/airlines/scandinavian-airlines-system-sas/sas-completes-first-long-haul-flight-with-brand-
new-airbus-a321lr/ [ 12]: https://www.lse.co.uk/news/ryanair-more-than-doubles-fy-loss-forecast-due-to-omicron-
restrictions-kvvchipbgt9ydjg.html [ 13]: https://www.futureflight.aero/news-article/2021-12-22/joby-advances-work-
evtol-radar-inras-acquisition [ 14]: https://twitter.com/AircraftYTube/status/1470333927080566784 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 24, 2021
End of Document
Omicron effect becomes evident in air travel
Omicron effect becomes evident in air travel
Newstex Blogs 
AirInsight
December 24, 2021 Friday 3:08 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 768 words
Byline: Richard Schuurman
Body
Dec 24, 2021( AirInsight: http://airinsight.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 With the infectious Omicron variant present in more and more countries and spreading quickly, airlines are 
beginning to see the effects of this mutation on their business. A few airlines have announced a drastic reduction in 
capacity for the coming months, while short-term, cancelations are disrupting travel plans during the Christmas 
holiday season. Omicron effect becomes evident in air travel. 
 With more and more staff unavailable because they have been diagnosed with Omicron and have to stay in 
quarantine, airlines like United Airlines[1], Delta Airlines[2], andLufthansa[3] have been forced to cancel flights 
today on December 24. United reportedly has canceled some 120 flights, Delta around ninety, Alaska Airlines 
around twenty, and Lufthansa around six long-haul flights over the Christmas weekend. 
 These are the short-term effects of Omicron, but in the medium-term, the virus is making the public unsure of 
flying. Irish low-cost airlineRyanair[4] said on December 23 that it will reduce capacity in January by 33 percent and 
expects to fly six to seven million passengers instead of the earlier anticipated ten million. The ban of UK flights into 
Germany and France since last weekend plus the suspension of all EU flights to Morocco has already affected 
Ryanair's December traffic by one to 1.5 million passengers. Ryanair has changed its guidance for the current 
financial year, expecting a net loss of €250 to €450 million now compared to between €100 to €200 million in its 
previous guidance. 
 Lufthansa Group too is seeing a sharp decline in bookings for January and February and has responded by cutting 
its schedule for the two months by 33.000 flights, or ten percent of total flights said CEO Carsten Spohr. He said 
that he could have made even deeper cuts but is forced to operate flights to prevent losing slots under the slot rule 
from the European Commission. Under this rule, airlines are required to operate fifty percent of their flights if they 
want to keep their historical rights at airports. 
 Earlier this month,British Airways[5] flight schedule showed that it would cancel over 2.100 flights until March. 
ANA[6]has adjusted its January-March international schedule by some 3.000 flights. At the same time, the airline - 
like other ones - announced their January sales, with BA offering tickets to some 100 destinations at discount 
prices. On Boxing Day, Ryanair will start offering ten million seats for €29.99 for the April-September period. This 
will unquestionably affect its financial results, as has happened in the past year after Ryanair tried to stimulate 
demand by dumping ticket prices. 
Omicron effect becomes evident in air travel
 From recent research in the UK, Denmark, and South Africa, the effects of Omicron seem to be more favorable 
than that of the Delta variant, but the higher infection rates and greater change of contamination still could cause 
serious capacity problems in hospitals and health systems. Earlier in December, IATA said that the airline industry 
wasnot to blame for the spreading of Omicron.[7] 
Please follow and like us: 
 [ 1]: http://www.united.com [ 2]: http://www.delta.com [ 3]: http://www.lufthansa.com [ 4]: http://www.ryanair.com [ 
5]: http://www.BA.com [ 6]: http://www.ana.co.jp [ 7]: https://airinsight.com/iata-says-aviation-isnt-to-blame-for-
omicron/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 24, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair delists from London Stock Exchange
Ryanair delists from London Stock Exchange
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 23, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 376 words
Body
Ryanair Holdings confirmed that the listing of its ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) had been 
cancelled, saying in a filing to the bourse on December 20 that the delisting had taken effect from 0800 Dublin time 
(0800Z).
"The company continues to have a primary listing on the regulated market of Euronext Dublin, which offers 
shareholders the highest standard of protection, including compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
and its ADRs [American Depository Receipts] are listed on the NASDAQ," the Ryanair (FR, Dublin Int'l) parent said 
in the filing.
The announcement followed a disclosure the carrier issued on November 19, saying it had applied to the UK 
Financial Conduct Authority to cancel its listing in London because "the volume of trading of the shares on the 
London Stock Exchange does not justify the costs related to such listing and admission to trading."
It had therefore opted to "consolidate trading liquidity to one regulated market for the benefit of all shareholders." 
The last day of trading of the shares on the LSE would be December 17, it said.
Ryanair Holdings CEO Michael O'Leary had revealed during an earnings call on November 1 that the company 
would delist from the LSE "probably sometime in the next six months" citing diminishing interest in its shares from 
UK investors post-Brexit. It had already made some of its UK-based investors sell shares to ensure it complied with 
the mandate after Brexit.
Europe's biggest budget carrier has maintained a primary listing on Euronext Dublin. It said in a statement on 
November 1 that "the migration away from the London Stock Exchange is consistent with a general trend for trading 
in shares of EU corporates post-Brexit and is, potentially, more acute for Ryanair as a result of the long-standing 
prohibition on non-EU citizens purchasing Ryanair's ordinary shares being extended to UK nationals following 
Brexit."
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Ryanair delists from London Stock Exchange
Load-Date: January 4, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair slashes guidance as Omicron variant hits Christmas and January bookings
Ryanair slashes guidance as Omicron variant hits Christmas and January 
bookings
 
Proactive Investors (UK)
December 23, 2021 Thursday 09:18 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Proactive UK Ltd All Rights Reserved
Length: 227 words
Byline: Proactive
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC (LSE:RYA) cut its guidance for the current year to a net loss of between (EURO)250mln and 
(EURO)450mln, compared with a loss range of (EURO)100mln-(EURO)200mln forecast previously.
The full-year traffic forecast was also cut to just under 100mln passengers from the previous forecast of just over 
100mln.
The Irish budget airline said its Christmas and New Year bookings have been hit by the Omicron variant of 
Coronavirus (COVID-19) and new travel restrictions across Europe, causing it to cut its planned January schedule 
capacity by 33%.
Following the ban on UK arrivals into France and Germany and the suspension of all EU flights to and from 
Morocco, Ryanair lowered its expected December traffic to 9mln-9.5mln from 10mln-11mln before. Its January 
traffic forecast has been reduced to 6mln-7mln from 10mln.
The airline has not yet changed its schedules for February and March in view of the uncertainty about the Omicron 
variant, but said it will revisit these when more scientific information about Omicron and its impact on travel 
becomes available.
Ryanair stressed that its forecasts are "hugely sensitive to any further positive or negative Covid news flow" and 
said it hopes to have more clarity on the impact of Omicron on intra-Europe travel restrictions in time for its third-
quarter results, which will be published on 31 January.
Ryanair slashes guidance as Omicron variant hits Christmas and January bookings
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $103.74
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $103.74
American Banking and Market News
December 23, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 566 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) gapped up before the market opened on Thursday . The stock 
had previously closed at $103.74, but opened at $106.28. Ryanair shares last traded at $105.35, with a volume of 
790 shares trading hands.  
A number of research firms have recently commented on RYAAY. Barclays  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Morgan Stanley  reaffirmed an "overweight" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. UBS Group  reaffirmed a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Credit Suisse Group  reissued an 
"outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Deutsche Bank 
Aktiengesellschaft  reissued a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. 
Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued  a buy rating to the 
company. Based on data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair presently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a 
consensus price target of $122.08. 
The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. The company's 50-
day simple moving average is $108.26 and its 200-day simple moving average is $109.04. The company has a 
market cap of $23.95 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -29.92 and a beta of 1.58.  
A number of institutional investors and hedge funds have recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. 
Baillie Gifford & Co. increased its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 2.5% during the third quarter. Baillie Gifford & 
Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,186,170,000 after purchasing 
an additional 264,133 shares during the period.  Capital International Investors increased its holdings in shares of  
Ryanair by 3.1% during the second quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares during the 
period.  FMR LLC grew its holdings in  Ryanair by 1.4% during the second quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $681,580,000 after acquiring an additional 87,015 shares during 
the period.  Lazard Asset Management LLC grew its holdings in  Ryanair by 6.3% during the second quarter. 
Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$541,264,000 after acquiring an additional 296,366 shares during the period.  Finally, Janus Henderson Group PLC 
grew its holdings in  Ryanair by 0.8% during the third quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $325,096,000 after acquiring an additional 23,924 shares during 
the period. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $103.74
About Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY ) 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: What can cause a stock to outperform? 
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Doubles Annual Loss Forecast On Omicron
Ryanair Doubles Annual Loss Forecast On Omicron
Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
December 23, 2021 Thursday 12:45 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 489 words
Body
Dec 22, 2021( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Low-cost airline Ryanair said Wednesday that the Omicron coronavirus variant would have a strong impact on its 
financial performance as it more than doubled the forecast for its annual loss and cut back flights. 
The Irish airline now expects a loss of between 250 to 450 million euros ($283-510 million) in its financial year that 
runs through March 2022, up from an earlier forecast of 100 to 200 million euros. 
Ryanair said in a statement that "the Omicron Covid variant and recent government travel restrictions across 
Europe have notably weakened close-in Christmas and New Year bookings." 
 Ryanair expects a loss of between 250 to 450 million euros ($283-510 million) in its financial year that runs through 
March 2022, up from an earlier forecast of 100 to 200 million euros Photo: AFP / Adrian DENNIS  
It added that "this sudden downturn has also caused Ryanair this week to cut its planned January schedule 
capacity by 33 percent." 
A growing number of European nations are tightening travel restrictions and several are reimposing restrictions on 
gatherings as the number of Covid-19 infections is rapidly rising. 
 The airline said that in light of the current uncertainty about the Omicron variant, as well as further developments 
regarding intra-Europe travel restrictions, it has not made any decisions yet on cutbacks to its February or March 
schedule. 
Ryanair said its new loss forecast was very sensitive to pandemic developments and that it hoped to have more 
clarity about the impact of Omicron on travel within Europe by the time it presents its third quarter results on 
January 31. 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
Ryanair Doubles Annual Loss Forecast On Omicron
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Lisbon wins EC approval for (EURO)2.66bn TAP aid
Lisbon wins EC approval for (EURO)2.66bn TAP aid
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 23, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 467 words
Body
The European Commission has given its seal of approval to EUR2.55 billion euros (USD2.88 billion) worth of 
restructuring aid for TAP Air Portugal (TP, Lisbon), as well as EUR107.1 million (USD120.8 million) to compensate 
it for damages resulting from the coronavirus pandemic during the second half of 2020.
Portugal's finance minister, João Leão, had already said earlier this month that he expected discussions with the 
commission on the restructuring plan to result in approval by Christmas. The Portuguese government had also 
raised its shareholding in the ailing carrier's holding company TAP SGPS in July 2020 from 50% to 72.5% after 
buying aviation entrepreneur David Neeleman's stake in the company.
"The approved restructuring plan for TAP will ensure the airline's path towards long-term viability," European 
Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager explained in a statement on December 21.
She added that "the significant public support" will come with safeguards to limit distortions of competition - in 
particular TAP making up to 18 slots a day available at congested Lisbon airport, "where TAP holds significant 
market power," to "a competing carrier."
This will give the competitor the chance to expand their activities at this airport, "ensuring fair prices and increased 
choice for European consumers," Vestager said. The first call for proposals on this sale will take place ahead of the 
Winter 2022-23 season.
The slots are an issue Ryanair (FR, Dublin Int'l) has raised in its vocal campaign against the state protection of TAP 
Air Portugal.
The flag carrier will also need to split its businesses into separate airlines TAP Air Portugal and Portugália Airlines 
(NI, Lisbon) - both of which will be supported and restructured - the commission said, as well as divest non-core 
assets during the course of the restructuring including subsidiaries in the maintenance arena in Brazil, catering, and 
ground handling.
In addition, TAP will be banned from making any acquisitions and "will reduce its fleet until the end of the 
restructuring plan," the commission said.
Lisbon wins EC approval for (EURO)2.66bn TAP aid
The European Commission recounted that Portugal had formally notified it about the planned restructuring aid on 
June 10, 2021, prompting it to open an in-depth investigation on the matter on July 16. On the same day, it re-
approved EUR1.2 billion (USD1.36 billion) in initial state aid in favour of the carrier following an annulment of the 
decision at the European General Court.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: January 4, 2022
End of Document
Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. Purchases 2,400 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. Purchases 2,400 Shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
December 23, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 597 words
Body
Ryanair Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. boosted its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 2.5% in 
the third quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. The firm owned 98,562 shares of the transportation company's stock after purchasing an additional 
2,400 shares during the period. Comgest Global Investors S.A.S.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $10,848,000 at 
the end of the most recent quarter.  
Several other institutional investors have also modified their holdings of RYAAY. New York State Common 
Retirement Fund lifted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 1.1% during the 2nd quarter. New York State Common 
Retirement Fund now owns 196,434 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $21,256,000 after 
buying an additional 2,101 shares in the last quarter.  Brinker Capital Investments LLC lifted its position in shares of  
Ryanair by 10.4% in the 2nd quarter. Brinker Capital Investments LLC now owns 27,174 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $2,941,000 after purchasing an additional 2,562 shares during the period.  
Envestnet Asset Management Inc. lifted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 9.4% in the 2nd quarter. Envestnet 
Asset Management Inc. now owns 93,335 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $10,100,000 after 
purchasing an additional 8,000 shares during the period.  Wrapmanager Inc. lifted its position in  Ryanair by 29.5% 
during the second quarter. Wrapmanager Inc. now owns 2,657 shares of the transportation company's stock valued 
at $288,000 after acquiring an additional 605 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, PNC Managed Account 
Solutions Inc. purchased a new stake in  Ryanair during the second quarter valued at approximately $79,000. 
Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of research reports. Morgan Stanley  reiterated an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Sanford C. Bernstein lowered shares of Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Raymond 
James dropped their price target on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on 
the stock in a research report on Monday, November 29th. Peel Hunt upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  
reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Five research analysts have 
rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have assigned  a buy rating to the company's stock. According to 
MarketBeat.com, Ryanair presently has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of $122.08. 
Comgest Global Investors S.A.S. Purchases 2,400 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Ryanair stock  opened at $103.74 on Thursday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-
month high of $127.25. The company has a 50-day moving average price of $108.26 and a 200 day moving 
average price of $109.04. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 
1.34.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Cash Asset Ratio 
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
Lufthansa cancels flights as pilots call in sick
Lufthansa cancels flights as pilots call in sick
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
December 23, 2021 Thursday 2:41 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 428 words
Byline: Christian Ebner in Frankfurt
Dateline: Frankfurt (dpa) - 
Body
German airline Lufthansa has had to cancel several intercontinental flights during the Christmas period because a 
number of its pilots are off sick, a company spokesperson said on Thursday.
Particularly affected are services flying to Boston, Houston and Washington through December 26, with only a few 
volunteers able to jump in and take over routes. The representative said those flights could, at least, be more easily 
rebooked. There were also flights to Japan that had to be cancelled.
The company planned "a very large buffer. But that is not sufficient considering the extremely high sickness rate," 
he added.
The spokesperson would not be drawn on whether the high sickness rate was linked to the coronavirus outbreak, 
which is currently being driven by the new Omicron variant. He said he was not aware of the nature of the illness 
among pilots.
Many of the absences are hitting crews for long-distance flights on Airbus A330s and A340s through early January.
Aero.de, a website focusing on German aviation, posted excerpts from a letter circulated by Lufthansa officials 
warning that the shortages could be severe.
"We don't see ourselves in the position to staff all routes because of increased sickness rates. Crew planners are 
working on scenarios that involve thinning out flight plans."
The airline's problems don't end with staff calling in sick. Several crew members have also had to go into quarantine 
due to the pandemic, further complicating flight planning.
Lufthansa cancels flights as pilots call in sick
The wave of sick calls comes amid talks between Cockpit, a pilots' union, and Lufthansa about corporate 
reorganizations that might cut certain high-paid piloting jobs. There is the possibility of strikes in the summer.
The cancellations have also called into question Lufthansa's promises to come up with emergency plans amid the 
coronavirus crisis. It had promised to keep reserve crew on hand and to introduce more flexibility into planning.
This Christmas travel season is shaping up to be a strong one for carriers operating in Europe. Some are reporting 
double-digit growth in flights offered, including Easyjet, which is operating 41 per cent more flights than two weeks 
ago, and Wizz Air, which has 75 per cent more flights this week than a week ago, according to data from flight 
safety organization Eurocontrol.
Ryanair, SAS and Wizz are also offering more connections than they did for the same time period in 2019, before 
the pandemic had hit Europe. Meanwhile, Lufthansa is down 21 per cent relative to 2019, though it recently 
managed a 1-per-cent improvement compared to two weeks prior.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Niels C Sorrells, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
Omicron Wave Forces Lufthansa To Axe 33,000 Flights
Omicron Wave Forces Lufthansa To Axe 33,000 Flights
Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
December 23, 2021 Thursday 6:45 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 815 words
Body
Dec 23, 2021( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 German national carrier Lufthansa will cut its winter flight plan by "around 10 percent" as the spread of the Omicron 
variant fuels uncertainty about travel, chief executive Carsten Spohr said Thursday. 
"From the middle of January to February, we see a sharp drop off in bookings", leading the airline group to cancel 
"33,000 flights or about 10 percent" of its flights this winter, Spohr said in an interview with the Frankfurter 
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung (FAS). 
"Above all we are missing passengers in our home markets of Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Belgium, 
because these countries have been hit hardest by the pandemic wave," Spohr said. 
Europe's largest airline group -- which includes Eurowings, Austrian, Swiss and Brussels Airlines -- was currently 
running "about 60 percent" of flights compared with the pre-pandemic year 2019, carrying "roughly half" the number 
of passengers, the CEO said. 
The number of cancellations would have been higher were the group not running 18,000 "extra, unnecessary flights 
just to secure our landing and takeoff rights," Spohr said. 
The airline industry has been battered since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic, with countless flights 
grounded in 2020 as countries closed their borders. 
 The European airports association ACI Europe estimated Thursday that the number of passengers travelling 
through its members had dropped 20 percent since November 24, when the Omicron variant was first reported to 
the World Health Organization. 
Germany has placed stricter limits on travellers coming from the United Kingdom and South Africa, among others, 
where the new variant has caused a surge in cases. 
The sudden headwind for the industry also caused Irish low-cost carrier Ryanair to cut its planned January 
schedule by 33 percent this week. 
Across the Atlantic, American Airlines said it was running more than 5,000 flights daily on average over the 
Christmas and New Year period -- around 86 percent of its flight schedule over the same period in 2019. 
Domestic demand "is very strong", the company said. 
 Omicron is dampening demand for travel, with Lufthansa following Ryanair in cutting back the number of its flights 
Photo: AFP / Christof STACHE  
Omicron Wave Forces Lufthansa To Axe 33,000 Flights
Internationally, pandemic-related travel curbs or test requirements have "a dampening effect" on demand, it added, 
"and we have seen that in some places". 
On Thursday, a Lufthansa spokesman told AFP the airline had already cancelled several transatlantic flights around 
Christmas, after the number of pilots calling in sick was greater than normal for this time of year. 
Asked whether the absences were linked to the Omicron variant, the spokesman said he "could not speculate" as 
he did not have any information about the causes of illness. 
In total, the airline has been forced to axe six flights between December 23 and 26, including services to Chicago, 
Boston and Washington. 
The lack of personnel came despite Lufthansa's "big planned reserves" of crew, the spokesman said. 
Swedish national carrier SAS on Wednesday also cancelled nine flights due to the coronavirus, after scrapping 
some 30 flights worldwide the day before. 
Lufthansa posted its first operating profit since the beginning of the pandemic in the third quarter of this year, after a 
difficult 18 months. 
The carrier booked an underlying, or operating loss of 5.5 billion euros ($6.2 billion) in 2020 and turned to the state 
for support. 
In November, Lufthansa announced it had finished paying back the nine-billion-euro bailout it received from the 
government earlier than planned. 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
European Shares Rise As Omicron Concerns Ebb
European Shares Rise As Omicron Concerns Ebb
RTT News (United States)
December 23, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2021 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 347 words
Byline: editorial@rttnews.com,  (RTT Staff Writer)
Body
       European stocks rose on Thursday to hit two-week highs after new studies indicated the Omicron variant poses 
a lower risk of severe disease and hospitalization than the Delta variant.
 However, the World Health Organization said it's too early to draw conclusions on its severity.
 The pan European Stoxx 600 rose 0.4 percent to 480.17 after climbing 0.9 percent on Wednesday.
 The German DAX gained half a percent, France's CAC 40 index inched up 0.3 percent and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 
was up 0.2 percent.
 Swiss building materials firm Holcim rose 2.4 percent after it signed an agreement to acquire Malarkey Roofing 
Products, a company in the U.S. residential roofing market.
 Airline stocks surged, with Air France KLM, Lufthansa, IAG and Wizz Air climbing 2-5 percent.
 Ryanair added 1.6 percent despite the low-cost airline doubling its annual loss forecast, citing the emergence of 
travel restrictions in several big markets.
 Flutter Entertainment jumped 3.3 percent. The Dublin-based gambling company said it has acquired online gaming 
operator Sisal from CVC Capital Partners Fund for 1.62 billion pounds ($2.16 billion).
 Balfour Beatty rallied 2.6 percent. Its U.S. subsidiary Balfour Beatty Communities has pleaded guilty and agreed to 
pay more than $65 million in fines and restitution for defrauding U.S. Military.
 Continental AG added 1.8 percent. Its CEO told a magazine that the German automotive supplier could hit the 
upper end of its profit margin outlook in 2021.
 On a light day on the economic front, preliminary data from Destatis showed that German import price index rose 
24.7 percent year-on-year in November, following a 21.7 percent increase in October. Economists had forecast a 
score of 22.3 percent.
 The pace of increase was the fastest since October 1974, when import prices rose 28.8 percent.
 A slew of U.S. economic data is scheduled to be released later in the day, including reports on weekly jobless 
claims, durable goods orders, personal income and spending, and new home sales as traders look to get a head 
start on the Christmas weekend.        
Load-Date: December 24, 2021
European Shares Rise As Omicron Concerns Ebb
End of Document
Thursday papers: Gas price rises creating ‘national crisis’ in UK
Thursday papers: Gas price rises creating ‘national crisis’ in UK
Citywire
December 23, 2021 Thursday 3:30 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 837 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And no need for new Covid restrictions as omicron hospital risk two-thirds lower, No 10 told.
Body
Top stories
•
Financial Times: ‘Stratospheric’ wholesale gas and power prices threaten a ‘national crisis’ in Britain, 
energy companies are warning; Good Energy and EDF press for urgent government intervention to protect 
customers and suppliers.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Britain should not be subjected to further Covid restrictions, senior government 
sources said yesterday after the first UK real-world data revealed that people infected with omicron are up 
to two-thirds less likely to end up in hospital.
•
The Times: Land Securities has bought another 25% stake in Bluewater in a deal that values the Kent 
shopping centre at significantly less than when Landsec first bought in seven years ago.
•
Financial Times: Maersk is paying $3.6bn for Li & Fung’s contract logistics business as the world’s largest 
container shipping line expands its land-based operations.
•
Financial Times: Turkey’s foreign currency reserves have tumbled by billions of dollars since the start of 
the week, suggesting that aggressive interventions have aided the lira’s bounceback from record lows.
Business and economics
•
The Times: The American economy grew faster than previously estimated in the third quarter but 
expanded at its slowest pace during the recovery; GDP expanded by 2.3% in the three months to 
September.
•
The Guardian: Ryanair has more than doubled its annual loss forecast and cut its January traffic estimate 
by one-third in response to travel restrictions imposed after the emergence of the omicron variant.
•
Daily Mail: Shares in over-60s-focused meals delivery group Parsley Box fell sharply yesterday after the 
company revealed it wants to raise more cash via its investors.
•
The Guardian: Energy firms that took on millions of customers from rivals that collapsed amid soaring gas 
prices have been granted an initial £1.83bn compensation by the regulator to help them absorb extra costs.
•
Daily Mail: The City of London has retained its crown as the hottest market in Europe for new companies to 
list on the stock market; about £13.9bn was raised through floats in the Square Mile over the last year.
Thursday papers: Gas price rises creating ‘national crisis’ in UK
•
The Daily Telegraph: Taylor Wimpey will drop ‘unfair’ terms in leasehold contracts that double ground rents 
every decade following an investigation by the competition watchdog.
•
The Times: Wejo, a British vehicle data company, has restated its accounts a month after listing in New 
York via a blank-cheque deal.
•
Financial Times: Credit Suisse has fired two managers who oversaw the $10bn suite of Greensill Capital-
linked funds that blew up in March, with more departures expected.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Consumers are losing interest in Alexa smart speakers as privacy fears mount and 
their novelty wears off, internal documents from Amazon have warned.
•
Financial Times: Berlin-based Delivery Hero is withdrawing from the German market for the second time in 
three years, citing rising rider costs and increased competition.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Reach, publisher of the Mirror and Daily Star newspapers, faces an intervention by 
The Pensions Regulator after refusing demands from its retirement scheme to make larger contributions to 
address a substantial funding deficit.
•
Daily Mail: Metro Bank has been slapped with a £5.4m fine over an embarrassing accounting debacle.
•
The Times: BlueCrest Capital Management UK, a former hedge fund, faces a £40.8m fine from the City 
watchdog for failing to manage conflicts of interest created by an investment pot that was open only to the 
firm’s employees.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Tesla is being investigated by US authorities for allowing video games to be played 
on the dashboard of vehicles while they are moving.
•
The Guardian: The aerospace giants Airbus and Boeing warned on Tuesday that the US aviation industry 
had ‘concerns’ about the potential interference of 5G networks with vital flight safety equipment.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Sri Lanka is to pay off a $251m Iranian oil debt by sending the country millions of 
dollars worth of tea every month.
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Daily Telegraph (Questor share tips): Stocks to buy for your children this Christmas – Manchester 
United, Hermès, Nike.
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): HOLD Sage; AVOID CMC Markets.
•
Daily Mail: Alteri, the London company that invests in the retail sector, took a 50% stake this week in 
Missguided, saving the fast-fashion firm from devastating supply chain disruption.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Wizz Air has bought a host of landing slots at Gatwick in an aggressive expansion at 
Britain’s second-biggest airport.
•
The Times: Gyroscope, a gene therapy start-up developing treatments for eye conditions, has been sold to 
Swiss drugmaker Novartis for up to £1.1bn in one of the largest cash exits in the British biotech industry.
•
Financial Times: Rio Tinto has announced its first major acquisition since the ill-fated purchase of coal 
miner Riversdale Mining in 2011, as it looks to expand into battery metals.
•
The Times (Comment): Global trade survived Trump and Brexit but the threat of protectionism has not 
gone away.
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
Wizz snaps up Norwegian slots at Gatwick
Wizz snaps up Norwegian slots at Gatwick
Financial Times (London, England)
December 23, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 371 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS
Body
Wizz Air has bought a portfolio of take-off and landing slots at Gatwick from Norwegian Air Shuttle, in a deal that 
increases its presence in the UK. The Hungarian carrier has acquired 15 daily slot pairs from Norwegian, which 
once used the airport as a base for transatlantic flying but has slimmed to a regional participant.
Wizz will use the slots to build its network of short-haul flights from the UK as part of an expansion plan that has 
prompted it to order new aircraft and open bases during the pandemic in a challenge to Ryanair.
The London-listed airline said it would increase the number of Airbus A321neo aircraft based at Gatwick from one 
to five next year. "Acquiring airport slots at Gatwick airport will enable us to enhance our presence and competitive 
position in the London market," said József Váradi, Wizz Air chief executive.
The terms were not disclosed but slots can be lucrative, particularly at capacity-constrained airports such as 
Gatwick. In 2017, British Airways bought 20 prime slots at Gatwick from collapsed Monarch for as much as £50m.
EasyJet, Gatwick's biggest airline, was offered the slots but decided not to buy them, said a person familiar with the 
discussions. With early morning arrival times, the slots are more geared for longhaul flying, the person added.
Norwegian abandoned its attempt to crack the low-cost long-haul market earlier this year, leading to 1,100 job 
losses at Gatwick. It became the biggest European casualty of the aviation crisis when it filed for protection from 
creditors in Ireland last year.
Wizz snaps up Norwegian slots at Gatwick
The failure has not deterred an airline called Norse Atlantic, backed by ex- Norwegian investors, from launching 
with plans to resuscitate the low-cost transatlantic model.
Some analysts have cautioned that a move into western markets will expose Wizz to the sort of higher costs faced 
by rivals, particularly as it faces pressure to allow crews to unionise.
Wizz has long promised to increase its presence at Gatwick, but has been frustrated by rules brought in during the 
crisis that allowed carriers such as Norwegian to keep their slots without using them. Gatwick has seen several 
airlines shift operations to Heathrow, and is still only using one of its two terminals.
Graphic
 
The move will help the Hungarian carrier build its short-haul network
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Wizz snaps up Norwegian slots at Gatwick
Wizz snaps up Norwegian slots at Gatwick
Financial Times (London, England)
December 23, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 371 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS
Body
Wizz Air has bought a portfolio of take-off and landing slots at Gatwick from Norwegian Air Shuttle, in a deal that 
increases its presence in the UK. The Hungarian carrier has acquired 15 daily slot pairs from Norwegian, which 
once used the airport as a base for transatlantic flying but has slimmed to a regional participant.
Wizz will use the slots to build its network of short-haul flights from the UK as part of an expansion plan that has 
prompted it to order new aircraft and open bases during the pandemic in a challenge to Ryanair.
The London-listed airline said it would increase the number of Airbus A321neo aircraft based at Gatwick from one 
to five next year. "Acquiring airport slots at Gatwick airport will enable us to enhance our presence and competitive 
position in the London market," said József Váradi, Wizz Air chief executive.
The terms were not disclosed but slots can be lucrative, particularly at capacity-constrained airports such as 
Gatwick. In 2017, British Airways bought 20 prime slots at Gatwick from collapsed Monarch for as much as £50m.
EasyJet, Gatwick's biggest airline, was offered the slots but decided not to buy them, said a person familiar with the 
discussions. With early morning arrival times, the slots are more geared for longhaul flying, the person added.
Norwegian abandoned its attempt to crack the low-cost long-haul market earlier this year, leading to 1,100 job 
losses at Gatwick. It became the biggest European casualty of the aviation crisis when it filed for protection from 
creditors in Ireland last year.
Wizz snaps up Norwegian slots at Gatwick
The failure has not deterred an airline called Norse Atlantic, backed by ex- Norwegian investors, from launching 
with plans to resuscitate the low-cost transatlantic model.
Some analysts have cautioned that a move into western markets will expose Wizz to the sort of higher costs faced 
by rivals, particularly as it faces pressure to allow crews to unionise.
Wizz has long promised to increase its presence at Gatwick, but has been frustrated by rules brought in during the 
crisis that allowed carriers such as Norwegian to keep their slots without using them. Gatwick has seen several 
airlines shift operations to Heathrow, and is still only using one of its two terminals.
Graphic
 
The move will help the Hungarian carrier build its short-haul network
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Wizz snaps up Norwegian slots at Gatwick
Wizz snaps up Norwegian slots at Gatwick
Financial Times (London, England)
December 23, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 371 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS
Body
Wizz Air has bought a portfolio of take-off and landing slots at Gatwick from Norwegian Air Shuttle, in a deal that 
increases its presence in the UK. The Hungarian carrier has acquired 15 daily slot pairs from Norwegian, which 
once used the airport as a base for transatlantic flying but has slimmed to a regional participant.
Wizz will use the slots to build its network of short-haul flights from the UK as part of an expansion plan that has 
prompted it to order new aircraft and open bases during the pandemic in a challenge to Ryanair.
The London-listed airline said it would increase the number of Airbus A321neo aircraft based at Gatwick from one 
to five next year. "Acquiring airport slots at Gatwick airport will enable us to enhance our presence and competitive 
position in the London market," said József Váradi, Wizz Air chief executive.
The terms were not disclosed but slots can be lucrative, particularly at capacity-constrained airports such as 
Gatwick. In 2017, British Airways bought 20 prime slots at Gatwick from collapsed Monarch for as much as £50m.
EasyJet, Gatwick's biggest airline, was offered the slots but decided not to buy them, said a person familiar with the 
discussions. With early morning arrival times, the slots are more geared for longhaul flying, the person added.
Norwegian abandoned its attempt to crack the low-cost long-haul market earlier this year, leading to 1,100 job 
losses at Gatwick. It became the biggest European casualty of the aviation crisis when it filed for protection from 
creditors in Ireland last year.
Wizz snaps up Norwegian slots at Gatwick
The failure has not deterred an airline called Norse Atlantic, backed by ex- Norwegian investors, from launching 
with plans to resuscitate the low-cost transatlantic model.
Some analysts have cautioned that a move into western markets will expose Wizz to the sort of higher costs faced 
by rivals, particularly as it faces pressure to allow crews to unionise.
Wizz has long promised to increase its presence at Gatwick, but has been frustrated by rules brought in during the 
crisis that allowed carriers such as Norwegian to keep their slots without using them. Gatwick has seen several 
airlines shift operations to Heathrow, and is still only using one of its two terminals.
Graphic
 
The move will help the Hungarian carrier build its short-haul network
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Wizz snaps up Norwegian slots at Gatwick to continue its expansion plan Airlines
Wizz snaps up Norwegian slots at Gatwick to continue its expansion plan; 
Airlines
Financial Times (London, England)
December 23, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 454 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS
Body
Low-cost airline Wizz Air has bought a portfolio of take-off and landing slots at Gatwick airport from Norwegian Air 
Shuttle, in a deal that significantly increases its presence in the UK.
The Hungarian carrier has acquired 15 daily slot pairs from Norwegian, which once used Gatwick as a base for 
transatlantic flying but has slimmed down into a regional operator during the pandemic.
Wizz will use the slots to build its network of short-haul flights from the UK as part of an aggressive expansion plan 
that has prompted it to order new aircraft and open bases during the pandemic in a challenge to leading European 
low-cost Ryanair.
The London-listed airline said it would increase the number of Airbus A321neo aircraft based at Gatwick from one 
to five early next year.
Jozsef Varadi, Wizz Air's chief executive, said: "Acquiring airport slots at Gatwick airport will enable us to enhance 
our presence and competitive position in the London market."
The terms of the deal were not disclosed, but aircraft slots can be highly lucrative, particularly in 
capacityconstrained airports such as Gatwick, where new airlines can struggle to gain a foothold.
Wizz snaps up Norwegian slots at Gatwick to continue its expansion plan Airlines
In 2017, British Airways bought 20 prime take-off and landing slots at Gatwick from collapsed airline Monarch for as 
much as £50m.
Gatwick's biggest airline, easyJet, was offered the slots but decided not to buy them, according to a person familiar 
with the discussions.
With early morning arrival times and turnrounds of up to three hours, the slots are better geared for long-haul flying, 
the person said.
Norwegian abandoned its attempt to crack the low-cost, long-haul market earlier this year, leading to 1,100 job 
losses at Gatwick.
The airline became the biggest European casualty of the pandemic-induced aviation crisis when it filed for 
protection from creditors in Ireland last year. Rapid expansion had left it with an unmanageable debt burden.
That failure has not deterred a new airline, Norse Atlantic, backed by former Norwegian investors, from launching 
with plans to resuscitate the low-cost transatlantic model next year.
Wizz has long promised to increase its presence at Gatwick but has been frustrated by rules brought in during the 
crisis that have allowed carriers such as Norwegian to keep their landing slots at airports without using them.
Wizz and Gatwick have pushed the UK government to bring back the normal slot rules, which force airlines to give 
up slots if they are not used 80 per cent of the time.
Wizz shares ended yesterday flat in London trading, but have recovered all of their pandemic losses as investors 
have backed the airline's expansion plans.
The carrier has ordered aircraft and opened bases during the pandemic in a challenge to Ryanair
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Big brands should learn from sassy Ryanair
Big brands should learn from sassy Ryanair
Financial Times (London, England)
December 23, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 708 words
Byline: Jemima Kelly
Body
Ryanair has been quite the sasspot on Twitter of late, and it seems everyone, from GB News to the Independent, is 
loving it. Yes, that Ryanair - the one that charges you £55 if you forget to check in before arriving at the airport; the 
one whose CEO once floated the idea of paid-for loo visits and who advises customers seeking a refund to kindly 
"f*** off".
"A genuinely safe seat ... and North Shropshire", the budget airline's official Twitter account posted last week in the 
wake of the Tories' by-election defeat, accompanied by a picture of a row of Ryanair plane seats and a map of the 
constituency. That came just a few days after the company tweeted an image of a chart showing "Coronavirus alert 
levels in UK", alongside "Downing Street party levels". Level 4 was "Boris topless, asking Thatcher's portrait if she 
comes here often". "God help me bc I'm about to like a funny meme from a corporate account", one user wrote. 
Ryanair's tweet got over 100,000 such "likes".
The company has taken many swipes at the flailing British prime minister and his government in recent weeks. And 
you have to hand it to them: these jokes are actually funny. This is corporate trolling of a nonbudget calibre; the kind 
that gives you warm, fuzzy and even - if you happen to have a surname like mine - vaguely patriotic feelings about 
the airline.
But not every we-just-want-to-befunny-and-likeable corporate social media post manages to strike the right tone. 
Contrast Ryanair's Twitter account with that of Pepsi, whose bio alone makes me grimace: "If you're looking for hot 
takes and cold Pepsi, you've come to the right place." Yeesh. It turns out you don't get either of those things from 
Big brands should learn from sassy Ryanair
Pepsi's Twitter page; what you get instead is one of the biggest companies on the planet trying to pretend it is just a 
regular Joe - and rather an irritating Joe, at that.
"Yup. We did that. Introducing Pepsi Mic Drop - our genesis #NFT collection," the company tweeted earlier this 
month, as it announced it was launching a series of non-fungible tokens - the digital "collectibles" being flogged by 
everyone from Adidas to Melania Trump. "This is going to look great in the metaverse," replied the company 
formerly known as Facebook (now Meta). "You know it, fren!" said Pepsi. "Welcome brand friend. WAGMI," was 
Budweiser's response. Pepsi: "Thanks, fren! WAGMI".
Is there anything creepier on the internet than a bunch of corporate behemoths speaking to one another like they're 
24-year-old tech bros? The "WAGMI" acronym they keep repeating has become popular in the cryptosphere in 
recent months and stands for "we're all going to make it" - itself a disingenuous slogan.
And nobody, not even crypto fans, seems impressed: "Pepsi calling Facebook 'fren' on Twitter makes me want to 
jump immediately," one tweeted. "Literally just turn the internet off," said another. A popular crypto site ran a piece 
lamenting the fact that "corporations like Pepsi, Budweiser, and Adidas are buying NFTs and metaverse land and 
tweeting 'WAGMI,' making crypto less cool, more cringe."
Of course the person coming up with these tweets probably is a cool and clued-up Zoomer who earns a fraction of 
what their bosses in the Csuite get paid, but that doesn't really help matters. Pepsi has a history of trying too hard to 
be relevant and getting it wrong: back in 2017, the company had to pull an advert starring Kendall Jenner after it 
was accused of trivialising Black Lives Matter protests.
It should be noted that likeability - or lack thereof - doesn't always correlate with profitability. Ryanair's newfound 
Twitter fans are surely welcome but they are not needed: Brits might have voted the airline the worst in the world for 
seven years on the trot, but during that period the airline's customer numbers almost doubled.
Nevertheless, given that these brands appear desperate to be loved, perhaps some basic rules should be followed: 
don't talk about "making it" when you're raking in profits of more than $10bn a year; don't engage in empty virtue-
signalling; never use rocket emojis; don't chat to each other like mates; do make good jokes at the expense of 
politicians who deserve it. I can't believe I'm going to say this but: brands, be more Ryanair.
jemima.kelly@ft.com
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Big brands should learn from sassy Ryanair
Big brands should learn from sassy Ryanair
Financial Times (London, England)
December 23, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 22
Length: 708 words
Byline: Jemima Kelly
Body
Ryanair has been quite the sasspot on Twitter of late, and it seems everyone, from GB News to the Independent, is 
loving it. Yes, that Ryanair - the one that charges you £55 if you forget to check in before arriving at the airport; the 
one whose CEO once floated the idea of paid-for loo visits and who advises customers seeking a refund to kindly 
"f*** off".
"A genuinely safe seat ... and North Shropshire", the budget airline's official Twitter account posted last week in the 
wake of the Tories' by-election defeat, accompanied by a picture of a row of Ryanair plane seats and a map of the 
constituency. That came just a few days after the company tweeted an image of a chart showing "Coronavirus alert 
levels in UK", alongside "Downing Street party levels". Level 4 was "Boris topless, asking Thatcher's portrait if she 
comes here often". "God help me bc I'm about to like a funny meme from a corporate account", one user wrote. 
Ryanair's tweet got over 100,000 such "likes".
The company has taken many swipes at the flailing British prime minister and his government in recent weeks. And 
you have to hand it to them: these jokes are actually funny. This is corporate trolling of a nonbudget calibre; the kind 
that gives you warm, fuzzy and even - if you happen to have a surname like mine - vaguely patriotic feelings about 
the airline.
But not every we-just-want-to-befunny-and-likeable corporate social media post manages to strike the right tone. 
Contrast Ryanair's Twitter account with that of Pepsi, whose bio alone makes me grimace: "If you're looking for hot 
takes and cold Pepsi, you've come to the right place." Yeesh. It turns out you don't get either of those things from 
Big brands should learn from sassy Ryanair
Pepsi's Twitter page; what you get instead is one of the biggest companies on the planet trying to pretend it is just a 
regular Joe - and rather an irritating Joe, at that.
"Yup. We did that. Introducing Pepsi Mic Drop - our genesis #NFT collection," the company tweeted earlier this 
month, as it announced it was launching a series of non-fungible tokens - the digital "collectibles" being flogged by 
everyone from Adidas to Melania Trump. "This is going to look great in the metaverse," replied the company 
formerly known as Facebook (now Meta). "You know it, fren!" said Pepsi. "Welcome brand friend. WAGMI," was 
Budweiser's response. Pepsi: "Thanks, fren! WAGMI".
Is there anything creepier on the internet than a bunch of corporate behemoths speaking to one another like they're 
24-year-old tech bros? The "WAGMI" acronym they keep repeating has become popular in the cryptosphere in 
recent months and stands for "we're all going to make it" - itself a disingenuous slogan.
And nobody, not even crypto fans, seems impressed: "Pepsi calling Facebook 'fren' on Twitter makes me want to 
jump immediately," one tweeted. "Literally just turn the internet off," said another. A popular crypto site ran a piece 
lamenting the fact that "corporations like Pepsi, Budweiser, and Adidas are buying NFTs and metaverse land and 
tweeting 'WAGMI,' making crypto less cool, more cringe."
Of course the person coming up with these tweets probably is a cool and clued-up Zoomer who earns a fraction of 
what their bosses in the Csuite get paid, but that doesn't really help matters. Pepsi has a history of trying too hard to 
be relevant and getting it wrong: back in 2017, the company had to pull an advert starring Kendall Jenner after it 
was accused of trivialising Black Lives Matter protests.
It should be noted that likeability - or lack thereof - doesn't always correlate with profitability. Ryanair's newfound 
Twitter fans are surely welcome but they are not needed: Brits might have voted the airline the worst in the world for 
seven years on the trot, but during that period the airline's customer numbers almost doubled.
Nevertheless, given that these brands appear desperate to be loved, perhaps some basic rules should be followed: 
don't talk about "making it" when you're raking in profits of more than $10bn a year; don't engage in empty virtue-
signalling; never use rocket emojis; don't chat to each other like mates; do make good jokes at the expense of 
politicians who deserve it. I can't believe I'm going to say this but: brands, be more Ryanair.
jemima.kelly@ft.com
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Big brands should learn from sassy Ryanair
Big brands should learn from sassy Ryanair
Financial Times (London, England)
December 23, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 708 words
Byline: Jemima Kelly
Body
Ryanair has been quite the sasspot on Twitter of late, and it seems everyone, from GB News to the Independent, is 
loving it. Yes, that Ryanair - the one that charges you £55 if you forget to check in before arriving at the airport; the 
one whose CEO once floated the idea of paid-for loo visits and who advises customers seeking a refund to kindly 
"f*** off".
"A genuinely safe seat ... and North Shropshire", the budget airline's official Twitter account posted last week in the 
wake of the Tories' by-election defeat, accompanied by a picture of a row of Ryanair plane seats and a map of the 
constituency. That came just a few days after the company tweeted an image of a chart showing "Coronavirus alert 
levels in UK", alongside "Downing Street party levels". Level 4 was "Boris topless, asking Thatcher's portrait if she 
comes here often". "God help me bc I'm about to like a funny meme from a corporate account", one user wrote. 
Ryanair's tweet got over 100,000 such "likes".
The company has taken many swipes at the flailing British prime minister and his government in recent weeks. And 
you have to hand it to them: these jokes are actually funny. This is corporate trolling of a nonbudget calibre; the kind 
that gives you warm, fuzzy and even - if you happen to have a surname like mine - vaguely patriotic feelings about 
the airline.
But not every we-just-want-to-befunny-and-likeable corporate social media post manages to strike the right tone. 
Contrast Ryanair's Twitter account with that of Pepsi, whose bio alone makes me grimace: "If you're looking for hot 
takes and cold Pepsi, you've come to the right place." Yeesh. It turns out you don't get either of those things from 
Big brands should learn from sassy Ryanair
Pepsi's Twitter page; what you get instead is one of the biggest companies on the planet trying to pretend it is just a 
regular Joe - and rather an irritating Joe, at that.
"Yup. We did that. Introducing Pepsi Mic Drop - our genesis #NFT collection," the company tweeted earlier this 
month, as it announced it was launching a series of non-fungible tokens - the digital "collectibles" being flogged by 
everyone from Adidas to Melania Trump. "This is going to look great in the metaverse," replied the company 
formerly known as Facebook (now Meta). "You know it, fren!" said Pepsi. "Welcome brand friend. WAGMI," was 
Budweiser's response. Pepsi: "Thanks, fren! WAGMI".
Is there anything creepier on the internet than a bunch of corporate behemoths speaking to one another like they're 
24-year-old tech bros? The "WAGMI" acronym they keep repeating has become popular in the cryptosphere in 
recent months and stands for "we're all going to make it" - itself a disingenuous slogan.
And nobody, not even crypto fans, seems impressed: "Pepsi calling Facebook 'fren' on Twitter makes me want to 
jump immediately," one tweeted. "Literally just turn the internet off," said another. A popular crypto site ran a piece 
lamenting the fact that "corporations like Pepsi, Budweiser, and Adidas are buying NFTs and metaverse land and 
tweeting 'WAGMI,' making crypto less cool, more cringe."
Of course the person coming up with these tweets probably is a cool and clued-up Zoomer who earns a fraction of 
what their bosses in the Csuite get paid, but that doesn't really help matters. Pepsi has a history of trying too hard to 
be relevant and getting it wrong: back in 2017, the company had to pull an advert starring Kendall Jenner after it 
was accused of trivialising Black Lives Matter protests.
It should be noted that likeability - or lack thereof - doesn't always correlate with profitability. Ryanair's newfound 
Twitter fans are surely welcome but they are not needed: Brits might have voted the airline the worst in the world for 
seven years on the trot, but during that period the airline's customer numbers almost doubled.
Nevertheless, given that these brands appear desperate to be loved, perhaps some basic rules should be followed: 
don't talk about "making it" when you're raking in profits of more than $10bn a year; don't engage in empty virtue-
signalling; never use rocket emojis; don't chat to each other like mates; do make good jokes at the expense of 
politicians who deserve it. I can't believe I'm going to say this but: brands, be more Ryanair.
jemima.kelly@ft.com
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Big brands should learn from sassy Ryanair
Big brands should learn from sassy Ryanair
Financial Times (London, England)
December 23, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 708 words
Byline: Jemima Kelly
Body
Ryanair has been quite the sasspot on Twitter of late, and it seems everyone, from GB News to the Independent, is 
loving it. Yes, that Ryanair - the one that charges you £55 if you forget to check in before arriving at the airport; the 
one whose CEO once floated the idea of paid-for loo visits and who advises customers seeking a refund to kindly 
"f*** off".
"A genuinely safe seat ... and North Shropshire", the budget airline's official Twitter account posted last week in the 
wake of the Tories' by-election defeat, accompanied by a picture of a row of Ryanair plane seats and a map of the 
constituency. That came just a few days after the company tweeted an image of a chart showing "Coronavirus alert 
levels in UK", alongside "Downing Street party levels". Level 4 was "Boris topless, asking Thatcher's portrait if she 
comes here often". "God help me bc I'm about to like a funny meme from a corporate account", one user wrote. 
Ryanair's tweet got over 100,000 such "likes".
The company has taken many swipes at the flailing British prime minister and his government in recent weeks. And 
you have to hand it to them: these jokes are actually funny. This is corporate trolling of a nonbudget calibre; the kind 
that gives you warm, fuzzy and even - if you happen to have a surname like mine - vaguely patriotic feelings about 
the airline.
But not every we-just-want-to-befunny-and-likeable corporate social media post manages to strike the right tone. 
Contrast Ryanair's Twitter account with that of Pepsi, whose bio alone makes me grimace: "If you're looking for hot 
takes and cold Pepsi, you've come to the right place." Yeesh. It turns out you don't get either of those things from 
Big brands should learn from sassy Ryanair
Pepsi's Twitter page; what you get instead is one of the biggest companies on the planet trying to pretend it is just a 
regular Joe - and rather an irritating Joe, at that.
"Yup. We did that. Introducing Pepsi Mic Drop - our genesis #NFT collection," the company tweeted earlier this 
month, as it announced it was launching a series of non-fungible tokens - the digital "collectibles" being flogged by 
everyone from Adidas to Melania Trump. "This is going to look great in the metaverse," replied the company 
formerly known as Facebook (now Meta). "You know it, fren!" said Pepsi. "Welcome brand friend. WAGMI," was 
Budweiser's response. Pepsi: "Thanks, fren! WAGMI".
Is there anything creepier on the internet than a bunch of corporate behemoths speaking to one another like they're 
24-year-old tech bros? The "WAGMI" acronym they keep repeating has become popular in the cryptosphere in 
recent months and stands for "we're all going to make it" - itself a disingenuous slogan.
And nobody, not even crypto fans, seems impressed: "Pepsi calling Facebook 'fren' on Twitter makes me want to 
jump immediately," one tweeted. "Literally just turn the internet off," said another. A popular crypto site ran a piece 
lamenting the fact that "corporations like Pepsi, Budweiser, and Adidas are buying NFTs and metaverse land and 
tweeting 'WAGMI,' making crypto less cool, more cringe."
Of course the person coming up with these tweets probably is a cool and clued-up Zoomer who earns a fraction of 
what their bosses in the Csuite get paid, but that doesn't really help matters. Pepsi has a history of trying too hard to 
be relevant and getting it wrong: back in 2017, the company had to pull an advert starring Kendall Jenner after it 
was accused of trivialising Black Lives Matter protests.
It should be noted that likeability - or lack thereof - doesn't always correlate with profitability. Ryanair's newfound 
Twitter fans are surely welcome but they are not needed: Brits might have voted the airline the worst in the world for 
seven years on the trot, but during that period the airline's customer numbers almost doubled.
Nevertheless, given that these brands appear desperate to be loved, perhaps some basic rules should be followed: 
don't talk about "making it" when you're raking in profits of more than $10bn a year; don't engage in empty virtue-
signalling; never use rocket emojis; don't chat to each other like mates; do make good jokes at the expense of 
politicians who deserve it. I can't believe I'm going to say this but: brands, be more Ryanair.
jemima.kelly@ft.com
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings Sees 2022 Loss More Than Doubling on Omicron Uncertainty
Ryanair Holdings Sees 2022 Loss More Than Doubling on Omicron 
Uncertainty
MT Newswires Live Briefs
December 23, 2021 Thursday 1:16 PM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 119 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) said Wednesday it now expects its net loss for the year ending March 31, 2022, in the 
range of 250 million euros ($283.4 million) to 450 million euros ($510.1 million), compared with an earlier estimate 
for a loss of 100 million euros ($113.3 million) to 200 million euros ($226.7 million), citing travel restrictions amid the 
uncertainty caused by COVID-19's omicron variant.
The budget airline also lowered its planned January schedule capacity by 33% and expects its full-year traffic at just 
under 100 million passengers, compared with a previous estimate for north of that figure.
Ryanair shares were up nearly 1.4% in recent trading.
Price: 105.03, Change: +1.29, Percent Change: +1.24
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
Omicron wave forces Lufthansa to axe 33,000 flights
Omicron wave forces Lufthansa to axe 33,000 flights
Newstex Blogs 
Digital Journal
December 23, 2021 Thursday 5:00 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1029 words
Byline: AFP
Body
Dec 23, 2021( Digital Journal: http://www.digitaljournal.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 German national carrier Lufthansa will cut its winter flight plan by 'around 10 percent' as the spread of the Omicron 
variant fuels uncertainty about travel, chief executive Carsten Spohr said Thursday. 
 'From the middle of January to February, we see a sharp drop off in bookings', leading the airline group to cancel 
'33,000 flights or about 10 percent' of its flights this winter, Spohr said in an interview with the Frankfurter 
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung (FAS). 
 'Above all we are missing passengers in our home markets of Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Belgium, 
because these countries have been hit hardest by the pandemic wave,' Spohr said. 
 Europe's largest airline group — which includes Eurowings, Austrian, Swiss and Brussels Airlines — was currently 
running 'about 60 percent' of flights compared with the pre-pandemic year 2019, carrying 'roughly half' the number 
of passengers, the CEO said. 
 The number of cancellations would have been higher were the group not running 18,000 'extra, unnecessary flights 
just to secure our landing and takeoff rights,' Spohr said. 
 The airline industry has been battered since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic, with countless flights 
grounded in 2020 as countries closed their borders. 
 The European airports association ACI Europe estimated Thursday that the number of passengers travelling 
through its members had dropped 20 percent since November 24, when the Omicron variant was first reported to 
the World Health Organization. 
 Germany has placed stricter limits on travellers coming from the United Kingdom and South Africa, among others, 
where the new variant has caused a surge in cases. 
 The sudden headwind for the industry also caused Irish low-cost carrier Ryanair to cut its planned January 
schedule by 33 percent this week. 
 Across the Atlantic, American Airlines said it was running more than 5,000 flights daily on average over the 
Christmas and New Year period — around 86 percent of its flight schedule over the same period in 2019. 
 Domestic demand 'is very strong', the company said. 
 Internationally, pandemic-related travel curbs or test requirements have 'a dampening effect' on demand, it added, 
'and we have seen that in some places'. 
 - Sick pilots - 
Omicron wave forces Lufthansa to axe 33,000 flights
 On Thursday, a Lufthansa spokesman told AFP the airline had already cancelled several transatlantic flights 
around Christmas, after the number of pilots calling in sick was greater than normal for this time of year. 
 Asked whether the absences were linked to the Omicron variant, the spokesman said he 'could not speculate' as 
he did not have any information about the causes of illness. 
 In total, the airline has been forced to axe six flights between December 23 and 26, including services to Chicago, 
Boston and Washington. 
 The lack of personnel came despite Lufthansa's 'big planned reserves' of crew, the spokesman said. 
 Swedish national carrier SAS on Wednesday also cancelled nine flights due to the coronavirus, after scrapping 
some 30 flights worldwide the day before. 
 Lufthansa posted its first operating profit since the beginning of the pandemic in the third quarter of this year, after 
a difficult 18 months. 
 The carrier booked an underlying, or operating loss of 5.5 billion euros ($6.2 billion) in 2020 and turned to the state 
for support. 
 In November, Lufthansa announced it had finished paying back the nine-billion-euro bailout it received from the 
government earlier than planned. 
 
https://www.addtoany.com/add_to/facebook?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fbusiness%2Fo
micron-wave-forces-lufthansa-to-axe-33000-
flights%2Farticle&linkname=Omicron%20wave%20forces%20Lufthansa%20to%20axe%2033%2C000%20flightshtt
ps://www.addtoany.com/add_to/twitter?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fbusiness%2Fomicron
-wave-forces-lufthansa-to-axe-33000-
flights%2Farticle&linkname=Omicron%20wave%20forces%20Lufthansa%20to%20axe%2033%2C000%20flightshtt
ps://www.addtoany.com/add_to/linkedin?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fbusiness%2Fomicro
n-wave-forces-lufthansa-to-axe-33000-
flights%2Farticle&linkname=Omicron%20wave%20forces%20Lufthansa%20to%20axe%2033%2C000%20flightshtt
ps://www.addtoany.com/add_to/email?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fbusiness%2Fomicron-
wave-forces-lufthansa-to-axe-33000-
flights%2Farticle&linkname=Omicron%20wave%20forces%20Lufthansa%20to%20axe%2033%2C000%20flightshtt
ps://www.addtoany.com/share#url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fbusiness%2Fomicron-wave-
forces-lufthansa-to-axe-33000-
flights%2Farticle&title=Omicron%20wave%20forces%20Lufthansa%20to%20axe%2033%2C000%20flights 
The post Omicron wave forces Lufthansa to axe 33,000 flights[1] appeared first on Digital Journal[2]. 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.digitaljournal.com/business/omicron-wave-forces-lufthansa-to-axe-33000-flights/article 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.digitaljournal.com 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Stock Price Crosses Below 50-Day Moving Average of $15.95
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Stock Price Crosses Below 50-Day Moving Average of 
$15.95
American Banking and Market News
December 23, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 196 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (LON:RYA) crossed below its 50 day moving average during trading on Wednesday . 
The stock has a 50 day moving average of GBX 15.95 ($0.21) and traded as low as GBX 11.62 ($0.15). Ryanair 
shares last traded at GBX 11.89 ($0.16), with a volume of 351,275 shares trading hands.  
The stock has a market capitalization of £163.33 million and a PE ratio of -20.56. The firm has a 50 day moving 
average of GBX 15.95 and a two-hundred day moving average of GBX 16.20. The company has a current ratio of 
1.34, a quick ratio of 1.14 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 116.44.  
Ryanair Company Profile (LON:RYA ) 
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Germany, and Other European countries. It is also involved in the provision of various 
ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and internet-related services; in-flight sale of beverages, 
food, and merchandise; and marketing accommodation and hotel services, car hire, and travel insurance through its 
Website and mobile app. 
Recommended Story: Understanding and Trading Breakout Stocks  
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
End of Document
FTSE 100 Edges Higher As Virus Worries Ease
FTSE 100 Edges Higher As Virus Worries Ease
RTT News (United States)
December 23, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2021 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 144 words
Byline: editorial@rttnews.com,  (RTT Staff Writer)
Body
       U.K. stocks eked out modest gains on Thursday after some recent studies indicated that people who get Covid-
19 infections caused by the Omicron variant are less likely to need hospital care.
 The benchmark FTSE 100 rose 16 points, or 0.2 percent, to 7,357 after closing 0.6 percent higher on Wednesday.
 Flutter Entertainment jumped 3.3 percent. The Dublin-based gambling ompany said it has acquired online gaming 
operator Sisal from CVC Capital Partners Fund for 1.62 billion pounds ($2.16 billion).
 Ryanair added 1.6 percent despite the low-cost airline doubling its annual loss forecast, citing the emergence of 
travel restrictions in several big markets.
 Balfour Beatty rallied 2.6 percent. Its U.S. subsidiary Balfour Beatty Communities has pleaded guilty and agreed to 
pay more than $65 million in fines and restitution for defrauding U.S. Military.        
Load-Date: December 24, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Cuts Fiscal 2022 Guidance on Omicron-Led Woes
Ryanair (RYAAY) Cuts Fiscal 2022 Guidance on Omicron-Led Woes
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
December 23, 2021 Thursday 5:12 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1086 words
Byline: Zacks Equity Research
Body
Dec 23, 2021( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings RYAAY[1] has reduced its fiscal 2022 guidance as Omicron fears and travel restrictions across 
Europe have weakened close-in Christmas & New Year bookings. 
RYAAY now anticipates fiscal 2022 traffic to be little less than 100 million passengers compared with the previous 
expectation of just above 100 million. Net loss is expected to be in the range of €250-€450 million compared with 
the previously guided range of €100-€200 million. 
Ryanair has lowered its December traffic forecast to 9-9.5 million passengers from 10-11 million expected earlier. 
The traffic forecast has been lowered due to the effects of government travel restrictions, especially France and 
Germany's ban on UK travelers and the suspension of EU flights to/from Morocco. The airline has slashed its 
planned January schedule capacity by 33%. It now expects January traffic to be 6-7 million from 10 million expected 
previously. RYAAY is yet to decide on schedule cutbacks for February and March 2022. Ryanair Holdings PLC 
Price https://www.zacks.com/stock/chart/RYAAY/fundamental/price?icid=chart-RYAAY-fundamental/price Ryanair 
Holdings PLC price[2] | Ryanair Holdings PLC Quote[3] Zacks Rank & Key Picks Ryanair carries a Zacks Rank #4 
(Sell). 
Here are some better-ranked stocks within the broader Transportation [4]sector: 
ArcBest Corporation ARCB[5] flaunts a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). The company has a stellar earnings surprise 
history. It has outperformed the Zacks Consensus Estimate for earnings in each of the preceding four quarters, the 
average surprise being 27.4%. You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank stocks here[6]. 
Shares of ArcBest have surged more than 100% so far this year. 
Expeditors International of Washington EXPD[7] carries a Zacks Rank #1. The company's earnings have 
outperformed the Zacks Consensus Estimate in each of the preceding four quarters, the average surprise being 
29.1%. 
Shares of Expeditors have appreciated more than 36% so far this year. 
Schneider National SNDR[8] carries a Zacks Rank #1. The company's earnings have trumped the Zacks 
Consensus Estimate in each of the trailing four quarters, the average surprise being 21%. 
Shares of Schneider National have rallied more than 25% so far this year. 
 Zacks' Top Picks to Cash in on Artificial Intelligence 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Cuts Fiscal 2022 Guidance on Omicron-Led Woes
 This world-changing technology is projected to generate $100s of billions by 2025. From self-driving cars to 
consumer data analysis, people are relying on machines more than we ever have before. Now is the time to 
capitalize on the 4th Industrial Revolution. Zacks' urgent special report reveals 6 AI picks investors need to know 
about today. See 6 Artificial Intelligence Stocks With Extreme Upside Potential > >[9] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[10] Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[11] 
Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (EXPD): Free Stock Analysis Report[12] ArcBest Corporation (ARCB): 
Free Stock Analysis Report[13] Schneider National, Inc. (SNDR): Free Stock Analysis Report[14] To read this 
article on Zacks.com click here.[15] Zacks Investment Research[16] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/chart/RYAAY/fundamental/price?icid=chart-RYAAY-fundamental/price 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY?icid=chart-RYAAY-fundamental/price 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/industry-rank/sector/transportation-15 [ 5]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/ARCB 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/buy-list/?ADID=zp_1link&ICID=zpi%20_1link 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/EXPD 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/SNDR 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/4e87?add=1749&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_AIREPORT_B_ANALYSTBLOG_257_12232021&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1842903 
[ 
10]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-1842903 
[ 
11]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1842903 
[ 
12]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=EXPD&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1842903 
[ 
13]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZR_LINK&d_alert=rd_final_rank&t=ARCB&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZR_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1842903 
[ 
14]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=SNDR&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1842903 
[ 
15]: 
http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1842903/ryanair-ryaay-cuts-fiscal-2022-
guidance-on-omicron-led-woes?cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-
1842903 [ 16]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 23, 2021
Ryanair (RYAAY) Cuts Fiscal 2022 Guidance on Omicron-Led Woes
End of Document
European Stocks Gain Amid UK Daily COVID Case Record, Continent Travel Curbs as Ryanair Warns of 
Wider Loss
European Stocks Gain Amid UK Daily COVID Case Record, Continent Travel 
Curbs as Ryanair Warns of Wider Loss
MT Newswires Live Briefs
December 22, 2021 Wednesday 1:16 PM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 446 words
Body
 European stocks rose Wednesday as the omicron variant of COVID-19 continued to spread, prompting new travel 
and gathering restrictions.
France's CAC 40 rose 1.2%, Germany's DAX gained 1% and Stoxx Europe 600 climbed 0.9%. The FTSE 100 in 
the UK closed up 0.6% and the Swiss Market Index added 0.3%.
Daily UK COVID cases topped 100,000 for the first time, as Prime Minister Boris Johnson refused to rule out related 
restrictions in England after Christmas, according to the BBC.
Geermany, which imposed a 14-day quarantine on travelers from the UK earlier this week, will close nightclubs, 
restrict spectator attendance at sporting events and limit private gatherings to a maximum of 10 people from Dec. 
28, the BBC reported Tuesday.
"Coronavirus doesn't take a Christmas break," the broadcaster quoted German Chancellor Olaf Scholz as saying.
Elsewhere, Portugal  ordered bars and nightclubs to close from Dec. 26 and limited work to home settings from that 
date to Jan.9. according to the BBC.
European discount airline Ryanair (RY4C.IR) said it now expects a net loss of 250 million to 450 million euros ($283 
million to $509 million) for its fiscal year ending March 31 as a result of omicon's spread and renewed travel 
restriction, versus prior guidance for a loss of 100 million to 200 million euros. The airline cited restrictions on UK 
arrivals to France and Germany and the suspension EU air links with Morocco, and said it cut its January capacity 
by a third.
European Stocks Gain Amid UK Daily COVID Case Record, Continent Travel Curbs as Ryanair Warns of 
Wider Loss
The UK's gross domestic product increased by 1.1% in the third quarter amid an easing of COVID-19 restrictions, 
according to estimates released by the Office for National Statistics. The growth was revised downward from a 
preliminary estimate of 1.3% following a 5.5% rise in second-quarter GDP.  The latest quarterly GDP is now 1.5% 
below where it was before the pandemic, according to the release.
The UK's current account deficit, including precious metals trade, widened to 24.4 billion British pounds ($32.33 
billion) in the third quarter from a revised 13.5 billion pounds in the second quarter, the Office for National Statistics 
said.
France's producer price index grew 3% in November after a 2.8% increase in October, the country's National 
Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies said. The current reading was higher than the expected 2.5% increase 
for November and was the highest recorded since the data became available in January 1995.
On the corporate front, Delivery Hero (DHER.F) was up over 7% after it announced plans to sell its Japanese 
affiliate, exiting the country in Q1 2022. Its Foodpanda Germany is also winding down German operations, citing 
increased competition and a rider shortage.
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Average Recommendation of 'Buy' from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Receives Average Recommendation 
of 'Buy' from Analysts
Newstex Blogs 
Watchlist News
December 22, 2021 Wednesday 7:30 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 832 words
Body
Dec 22, 2021( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has been assigned an average recommendation of 'Buy' from the 
eighteen analysts that are covering the firm, Marketbeat Ratings[1] reports. Five equities research analysts have 
rated the stock with a hold recommendation and twelve have given a buy recommendation to the company. The 
average 1-year target price among brokers that have issued a report on the stock in the last year is $132.08.  
 A number of equities research analysts recently weighed in on the company. Morgan Stanley restated an 
'overweight' rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. JPMorgan Chase & Co. restated a 
'neutral' rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an 
'outperform' rating to a 'neutral' rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. UBS Group reiterated a 'neutral' 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Finally, Barclays reiterated an 'overweight' 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. 
NASDAQ RYAAY[2] traded down $0.71 on Friday, hitting $104.28. 20,805 shares of the company's stock were 
exchanged, compared to its average volume of 338,537. The firm has a market cap of $23.63 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of -29.79 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 
and a quick ratio of 1.34. The firm's 50-day moving average price is $108.44 and its two-hundred day moving 
average price is $109.08. Ryanair has a fifty-two week low of $94.68 and a fifty-two week high of $127.25.  
 A number of large investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. WealthShield Partners LLC 
raised its position in Ryanair by 638.2% in the second quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $27,000 after purchasing an additional 217 shares during the period. 
Assetmark Inc. raised its position in Ryanair by 133.6% in the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $30,000 after purchasing an additional 155 shares during the period. 
Advisory Services Network LLC purchased a new position in Ryanair in the second quarter valued at about 
$46,000. JFS Wealth Advisors LLC acquired a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the third quarter valued at 
about $47,000. Finally, Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 532.2% during 
the second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Average Recommendation of 'Buy' from Analysts
stock valued at $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares in the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is currently 
owned by institutional investors.  
About Ryanair 
 Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
 Featured Story: What is a capital gains distribution?[3] 
Receive News & Ratings for Ryanair Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[4]. 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-a-capital-gains-distribution/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY&c=Ryanair 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Bank of America Corp DE Purchases 180,625 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Bank of America Corp DE Purchases 180,625 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
December 22, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Body
Ryanair Bank of America Corp DE lifted its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 17.8% in the 
2nd quarter, according to its most recent 13F filing with the SEC. The institutional investor  owned 1,194,585 shares 
of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 180,625 shares during the period. Bank of 
America Corp DE owned 0.53% of Ryanair worth $129,266,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
Several other large investors have also recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. WealthShield Partners 
LLC grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 638.2% in the 2nd quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after buying an additional 217 shares during the last 
quarter.  Advisory Services Network LLC purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair in the 2nd quarter worth 
approximately $46,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 532.2% in the 
2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $58,000 after buying an additional 463 shares during the last quarter.  PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. 
purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair in the 2nd quarter worth approximately $79,000.  Finally, Sawtooth 
Solutions LLC grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 16.1% in the 2nd quarter. Sawtooth Solutions LLC now owns 
2,080 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $225,000 after buying an additional 289 shares during the 
last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Several analysts have commented on RYAAY shares. UBS Group  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Barclays  reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Morgan Stanley  reiterated an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Credit Suisse Group  reiterated an "outperform" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Peel Hunt upgraded Ryanair 
from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Five research analysts have 
rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued  a buy rating to the company. According to 
MarketBeat.com, the company presently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
Shares of RYAAY stock  opened at $104.99 on Wednesday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $94.68 
and a 12-month high of $127.25. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity 
ratio of 0.96. The stock's 50-day moving average price is $108.44 and its 200-day moving average price is $109.08. 
The stock has a market capitalization of $23.79 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -29.83 and a beta of 1.58.  
Ryanair Profile
Bank of America Corp DE Purchases 180,625 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: S&P/TSX Index 
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Bank of America Corp DE Increases Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Bank of America Corp DE Increases Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
December 22, 2021 Wednesday 9:09 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 860 words
Body
Dec 22, 2021( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Bank of America Corp DE increased its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 17.8% 
during the second quarter, Holdings Channel.com[1] reports. The institutional investor owned 1,194,585 shares of 
the transportation company's stock after buying an additional 180,625 shares during the quarter. Bank of America 
Corp DE's holdings in Ryanair were worth $129,266,000 as of its most recent filing with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC).  
Other institutional investors and hedge funds also recently made changes to their positions in the company. 
WealthShield Partners LLC boosted its holdings in Ryanair by 638.2% in the second quarter. WealthShield Partners 
LLC now owns 251 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $27,000 after purchasing an additional 
217 shares during the last quarter. Advisory Services Network LLC purchased a new stake in Ryanair in the second 
quarter valued at $46,000. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its holdings in Ryanair by 532.2% in the 
second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $58,000 after purchasing an additional 463 shares during the last quarter. PNC Managed Account 
Solutions Inc. purchased a new stake in Ryanair in the second quarter valued at $79,000. Finally, Sawtooth 
Solutions LLC boosted its holdings in Ryanair by 16.1% in the second quarter. Sawtooth Solutions LLC now owns 
2,080 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $225,000 after purchasing an additional 289 shares 
during the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
RYAAY[2] opened at $104.99 on Wednesday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a twelve month low of $94.68 and a twelve 
month high of $127.25. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 
0.96. The company has a 50-day moving average price of $108.44 and a 200 day moving average price of $109.08. 
The company has a market cap of $23.79 billion, a PE ratio of -29.83 and a beta of 1.58.  
Several research firms have commented on RYAAY. Morgan Stanley reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" 
rating in a report on Friday, September 17th. Sanford C. Bernstein lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reissued 
a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. Finally, Raymond James 
lowered their target price on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on the stock 
in a research note on Monday, November 29th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold 
Bank of America Corp DE Increases Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the company. Based on data from MarketBeat, Ryanair has an average 
rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Non-Fungible Token (NFT)[3] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 
1]: 
http://www.holdingschannel.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/non-fungible-token-nft/ [ 4]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Expects Up to $510 Million Loss in FY22 Amid Renewed Travel Curbs
Ryanair Expects Up to $510 Million Loss in FY22 Amid Renewed Travel 
Curbs
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
December 22, 2021 Wednesday 10:25 PM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 141 words
Body
 Ryanair (RY4C.IR, RY4C.F) said Wednesday it now forecasts a net loss of between 250 million euros and 450 
million euros ($283.5 million and $510.3 million) for the fiscal year ending March 2022 as the omicron-driven surge 
in COVID-19 cases prompted the reinstatement of travel restrictions.
The Irish budget airline previously expected a full-year net loss of 100 million euros to 200 million euros.
The renewed travel curbs also resulted in the company lowering its planned schedule capacity for January 2022 by 
33%, reflecting traffic of between 6 million and 7 million, down from the previous estimate of 10 million. 
Meanwhile, the air carrier plans to revisit flight schedules when more scientific data is available regarding the 
impact of omicron on hospitalizations or travel regulations.
Ryanair declined 1% in Frankfurt on Wednesday's close.
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair doubles annual loss forecast on Omicron
Ryanair doubles annual loss forecast on Omicron
Newstex Blogs 
Digital Journal
December 22, 2021 Wednesday 11:00 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 673 words
Byline: AFP
Body
Dec 22, 2021( Digital Journal: http://www.digitaljournal.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Low-cost airline Ryanair said Wednesday that the Omicron coronavirus variant would have a strong impact on its 
financial performance as it more than doubled the forecast for its annual loss and cut back flights. 
 The Irish airline now expects a loss of between 250 to 450 million euros ($283-510 million) in its financial year that 
runs through March 2022, up from an earlier forecast of 100 to 200 million euros. 
 Ryanair said in a statement that 'the Omicron Covid variant and recent government travel restrictions across 
Europe have notably weakened close-in Christmas and New Year bookings.' 
 It added that 'this sudden downturn has also caused Ryanair this week to cut its planned January schedule 
capacity by 33 percent.' 
 A growing number of European nations are tightening travel restrictions and several are reimposing restrictions on 
gatherings as the number of Covid-19 infections is rapidly rising. 
 The airline said that in light of the current uncertainty about the Omicron variant, as well as further developments 
regarding intra-Europe travel restrictions, it has not made any decisions yet on cutbacks to its February or March 
schedule. 
 Ryanair said its new loss forecast was very sensitive to pandemic developments and that it hoped to have more 
clarity about the impact of Omicron on travel within Europe by the time it presents its third quarter results on 
January 31. 
 
https://www.addtoany.com/add_to/facebook?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworld%2Fryanai
r-doubles-annual-loss-forecast-on-
omicron%2Farticle&linkname=Ryanair%20doubles%20annual%20loss%20forecast%20on%20Omicronhttps://www.
addtoany.com/add_to/twitter?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworld%2Fryanair-doubles-
annual-loss-forecast-on-
omicron%2Farticle&linkname=Ryanair%20doubles%20annual%20loss%20forecast%20on%20Omicronhttps://www.
addtoany.com/add_to/linkedin?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworld%2Fryanair-doubles-
annual-loss-forecast-on-
omicron%2Farticle&linkname=Ryanair%20doubles%20annual%20loss%20forecast%20on%20Omicronhttps://www.
addtoany.com/add_to/email?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworld%2Fryanair-doubles-
Ryanair doubles annual loss forecast on Omicron
annual-loss-forecast-on-
omicron%2Farticle&linkname=Ryanair%20doubles%20annual%20loss%20forecast%20on%20Omicronhttps://www.
addtoany.com/share#url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworld%2Fryanair-doubles-annual-loss-
forecast-on-omicron%2Farticle&title=Ryanair%20doubles%20annual%20loss%20forecast%20on%20Omicron 
The post Ryanair doubles annual loss forecast on Omicron[1] appeared first on Digital Journal[2]. 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.digitaljournal.com/world/ryanair-doubles-annual-loss-forecast-on-omicron/article 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.digitaljournal.com 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair revises down its forecast in the wake of Omicron
Ryanair revises down its forecast in the wake of Omicron
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
December 22, 2021 Wednesday 7:12 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 172 words
Dateline: Dublin (dpa) - 
Body
The Irish low-cost airline Ryanair has lowered its forecast for the current business year, announcing in Dublin on 
Wednesday that it was now expecting an even higher loss due to the spread of the Omicron variant and the 
associated travel restrictions.
Ryanair is now forecasting a net loss of between 250 million and 450 million euros (283 million and 510 million 
dollars) for the financial year that runs until the end of March 2022. Previously the airline was expecting to make a 
loss of between 100 million and 200 million euros.
In terms of passenger volume, the group says it now expects to transport fewer than 100 million passengers this 
year. The figures depended heavily on the further course of the pandemic, it said.
Ryanair has reduced its flights by 33 per cent for January, while a decision on its schedule has yet to be made for 
February and March.
The company said it hoped to have more clarity on the impact of the Omicron variant on European travel 
restrictions when it presents its third quarter figures on January 31.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Tom Masters, <international@dpa.com;
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Airline Stock Roundup: DAL's Bullish Q4 View, ALGT's Rosy November Traffic & More
Airline Stock Roundup: DAL's Bullish Q4 View, ALGT's Rosy November 
Traffic & More
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
December 22, 2021 Wednesday 5:22 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1643 words
Byline: Maharathi Basu
Body
Dec 22, 2021( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 In the past week, Delta Air Lines DAL[1] boosted its guidance for the fourth quarter of 2021, mainly owing to strong 
passenger demand during the holidays and waning omicron-related fears. Also, on the back of improved air-travel 
demand in the United States, Allegiant Travel Company ALGT[2] posted a substantial year-over-year increase in 
scheduled traffic for November 2021.Further, with COVID-19's omicron variant ravaging Europe, particularly the UK 
and Ireland, Ryanair Holdings' RYAAY[3] CEO Michael O'Leary expects the carrier's capacity for the current and 
the next month to be dented. 
An expansion-related update on the Northeast Alliance betweenAmerican Airlines AAL[4] and JetBlue Airways 
JBLU[5] was available in the past week. We note that the partnershipis under scrutiny over concerns related to 
reducing competition and jacking up air fares.  
JetBlue also recently grabbed headlines following its decision to expand its codeshare partnership with the Irish 
carrier Aer Lingus. This story was covered in detail in the previous week's roundup[6]. Recap of the Past Week's 
Big Events 1 Per an SEC filing, Delta expects to generate an adjusted pre-tax profit of approximately $200 million in 
the December quarter. During the third-quarter 2021 earnings release in October, the airline had warned that rising 
fuel prices might put pressure on its ability to generate profits in the fourth quarter. DAL had then expected to incur 
a moderate loss in the December quarter. 
Delta expects adjusted total revenues (excluding third-party refinery sales) to be 74% recovered in the fourth 
quarter compared with the same-period level in 2019. Previously, the airline had expected to generate total 
revenues in the low 70s (in percentage terms) compared with the 2019 level. The improved outlook is owing to 
better-than-anticipated total revenue per available seat mile and positive passenger revenue per available seat mile 
(compared with the 2019 reading) on account of strong travel demand during the holidays. Non-fuel unit costs are 
estimated to increase approximately 7% in the December quarter from the 2019 level. The same is compared with 
the previous guidance of an increase in the 6-8% range. Fuel price per gallon (adjusted) is predicted to be $2.05-
$2.15 for the fourth quarter compared with the previously guided range of $2.25-$2.40. Total capacity is still 
expected to be 80% of the 2019 level[7]. Delta currently carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can seethe complete 
list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here[8]. 
Airline Stock Roundup: DAL's Bullish Q4 View, ALGT's Rosy November Traffic & More
2. Under the alliance with JetBlue, American Airlines is expanding its global footprint in 2022, with new nonstop 
services between New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and Doha's (Qatar) Hamad International 
Airport. From LaGuardia airport, the carrier added routes to Houston, TX; Kansas City, MO; Oklahoma City, OK and 
Omaha, NE. 
From Boston, American Airlines announced new nonstop services to Halifax, Nova Scotia; Louisville, KY; Memphis, 
TN; Pensacola, FL; and Traverse City, MI. These new flights from Boston add to the carrier's recently announced 
routes to Columbus, OH; Cincinnati, OH; Indianapolis, IN; Wilmington, N.C. and Toronto, Canada. From LaGuardia 
airport, JetBlue will begin a service to Portland, ME in 2022[9]. 
3. At Allegiant, scheduled traffic for November 2021 surged 78.8% from the November 2020 levels. Capacity for 
scheduled service increased 32.8% from the November 2020 reading. With the traffic surge outweighing capacity 
expansion, the load factor (% of seats filled by passengers) in November expanded 20 points to 77.6% from the 
year-ago period's levels. For the total system (including scheduled service and fixed fee contract), Allegiant carried 
74.9% more passengers in November 2021 from the year-ago period's level[10]. 
4. Per aReuters report[11], Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary told the Guardian newspaper that the carrier 
will carry roughly 10% less passengers in December 2021 and January 2022. According to O'Leary, RYAAY 
intends to fly about 10 million people in the final month of 2021 (1 million less than the estimated figure). Moreover, 
RYAAY aims to trim its January schedule by nearly 10%. Performance The following table shows the price 
movement of major airline players over the past week and during the last six months. 
Image Source: Zacks Investment Research 
The table above shows that almost all airline stocks have traded in the green over the past week, leading the NYSE 
ARCA Airline Index to increase 4.3% to $82.10. Over the past six months, the NYSE ARCA Airline Index has 
depreciated 21.1%. What's Next in the Airline Space? With air-travel demand improving, expansion-related updates 
by carriers may be available in the coming days. 
 Breakout Biotech Stocks with Triple-Digit Profit Potential  
 The biotech sector is projected to surge beyond $2.4 trillion by 2028 as scientists develop treatments for thousands 
of diseases. They're also finding ways to edit the human genome to literally erase our vulnerability to these 
diseases. 
 Zacks has just released Century of Biology: 7 Biotech Stocks to Buy Right Now to help investors profit from 7 
stocks poised for outperformance. Recommendations from previous editions of this report have produced gains of 
+205%, +258% and +477%. The stocks in this report could perform even better. See these 7 breakthrough stocks 
now  > >[12] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[13] Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[14] 
Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL): Free Stock Analysis Report[15] JetBlue Airways Corporation (JBLU): Free Stock 
Analysis Report[16] American Airlines Group Inc. (AAL): Free Stock Analysis Report[17] Allegiant Travel Company 
(ALGT): Free Stock Analysis Report[18] To read this article on Zacks.com click here.[19] Zacks Investment 
Research[20] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/DAL 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/ALGT 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/AAL 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/JBLU [ 6]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1839367/airline-stock-roundup-
luvs-bullish-q4-view-azuls-rosy-november-traffic-more?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID01-txt-
1839367 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1840532/delta-dal-improves-q4-guidance-expects-profits-in-
2022?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID04-txt-1840532 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/buy-
list/?ADID=zp_1link&ICID=zpi%20_1link [ 9]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1841235/american-airlines-aal-
jetblue-to-add-routes-under-nea?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID01-txt-1841235 
[ 
10]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1841626/allegiant-algt-posts-stellar-november-traffic-figures?art_rec=quote-
stock_overview-zacks_news-ID01-txt-1841626 [ 11]: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ryanair-sees-omicron-hit-
Airline Stock Roundup: DAL's Bullish Q4 View, ALGT's Rosy November Traffic & More
december-071620021.html 
[ 
12]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/4e87?add=1725&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_BIOTECHREPORT_ANALYSTBLOG_213_IND_12222021&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-
analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1842380 
[ 
13]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1842380 
[ 
14]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1842380 [ 
15]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=DAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1842380 
[ 
16]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=JBLU&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1842380 
[ 
17]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=AAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1842380 
[ 
18]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=ALGT&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1842380 
[ 
19]: 
http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1842380/airline-stock-roundup-dal-s-bullish-q4-view-algt-s-rosy-november-
traffic-more?cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1842380 [ 20]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Tuesday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Tuesday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
December 21, 2021 Tuesday 11:20 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 213 words
Body
 American depositary receipts of European stocks were trading 1.2% higher at 1,133.46 on the S&P/BNY Mellon 
Europe Select ADR Index on Tuesday. 
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by petroleum company Equinor (EQNR), which rose 5.5%. Credit 
Suisse Group (CS) was also up 3.5% and telecommunications company VEON (VEON) added 3.3%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by biopharmaceutical firms DBV Technologies (DBVT) and Genfit 
(GNFT), which fell 37% and 9.3%, respectively. They were followed by furniture maker Natuzzi (NTZ) and 
biopharmaceutical company Calliditas Therapeutics (CALT), which declined 8.4% and 6.7%, respectively.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by cruise line operator Carnival (CUK) and pharmaceutical firm Avadel 
Pharmaceuticals (AVDL), which climbed 7.8% and 7%, respectively. They were followed by airline operator Ryanair 
Holdings (RYAAY) and mining company Rio Tinto Group (RIO), which added 4.5% and 2.7%, respectively.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by Trinity Biotech (TRIB) and biopharmaceutical company MorphoSys 
(MOR), which lost 3.2% and 1.9%, respectively. They were followed by biopharmaceutical companies Akari 
Therapeutics (AKTX) and Verona Pharma (VRNA), which retreated 1.8% and 0.9%, respectively.
Load-Date: December 21, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 21, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 155 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1270.2 24.40 1890.2 1073 - -2.10 1484.9 CompassX 1528.5 -28.00 1721.63 18.06 - -
66.17 3153.9 Dalata Hotel 302.00 12.50 414.50 272.00 - -11.53 65.5 easyJet 506.40 -2.00 1095 6.81 - -1.67 
4265.5 FirstGrp 103.20 -1.20 110.70 63.55 - 26.46 928.9 Flutter Entertainment 11010 -185.00 19680.8 9912 - -
276.63 409.7 Fuller A 650.00 10.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.44 7.9 Go-Ahead 630.00 -12.50 1463 531.00 - -5.88 69.5 
IntCon Htels Gp 4438 -37.00 5568 4314 - -4381.05 679.0 Intl Cons Air 130.94 -1.10 222.10 1.55 - -2.29 25899.0 
MandarO $ 2.25 -0.02 2.36 1.65 - -7.42 43.8 Marstons 68.65 -0.35 105.50 63.56 - -1.04 2033.0 Natl Exp 238.00 -
11.20 413.50 206.70 - -5.13 1128.3 PPHE Htl 1352 -28.00 1800 1175 - -6.01 6.0 Restaurt 80.90 0.50 140.00 0.76 - 
8.51 2401.8 Ryanair Holdings PLC 321.50 -4.50 338.60 250.00 1.03 54.49 338.4 TUI 214.20 -1.30 505.60 189.85 - 
-1.45 4083.2 Whitbrd 2787 18.00 3949.01 36.28 - -22.62 704.6
Load-Date: December 20, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair completes departure from London Stock Exchange
Ryanair completes departure from London Stock Exchange
Alliance News UK
December 20, 2021 Monday 09:49 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 Alliance News Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: Company Significant
Length: 225 words
Body
(Alliance News) - Ryanair Holdings PLC has completed its delisting from the London Stock Exchange, it confirmed 
Monday.
The Dublin-based budget airline had blamed declining post-Brexit trading volumes for the move, when the decision 
was first announced last month.
In November, Ryanair explained: "As indicated at our interim results, and following subsequent shareholder 
engagement, Ryanair has decided to request the cancellation of London listing as the volume of trading of the 
shares on the London Stock Exchange does not justify the costs related to such listing and admission to trading, 
and so as to consolidate trading liquidity to one regulated market for the benefit of all shareholders."
Ryanair retains a primary listing on the Euronext Dublin market and also has American depositary shares listed on 
the Nasdaq exchange in New York.
In December of last year, Ryanair confirmed that UK shareholders will have little or no say in the running of the 
airline. Ryanair at the time said it "must take steps" to ensure that it will remain majority EU owned and controlled 
following the end of the Brexit transition period. 
With UK shareholders no longer resident in the EU, their voting rights needed to be restricted to keep within EU 
ownership rules.
By Will Paige; willpaige@alliancenews.com
Copyright 2021 Alliance News Limited. All Rights Reserved.
Load-Date: December 20, 2021
Ryanair completes departure from London Stock Exchange
End of Document
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. Sells 11,231 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. Sells 11,231 Shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
December 20, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 554 words
Body
Ryanair Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. trimmed its position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 27.7% in the third quarter, according to its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC). The firm owned 29,264 shares of the transportation company's stock after 
selling 11,231 shares during the period. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth 
$3,221,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
Other hedge funds have also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the company. WealthShield Partners LLC 
boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 638.2% during the second quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $27,000 after acquiring an additional 217 shares during the 
period.  Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new stake in  Ryanair during the second quarter valued at about 
$46,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 532.2% during the 
second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $58,000 after buying an additional 463 shares during the last quarter.  PNC Managed Account Solutions 
Inc. acquired a new position in shares of  Ryanair during the second quarter valued at about $79,000.  Finally, Park 
Avenue Securities LLC acquired a new position in shares of  Ryanair during the third quarter valued at about 
$223,000. Institutional investors own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
A number of research analysts have recently commented on RYAAY shares. Raymond James cut their price 
objective on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a 
research report on Monday, November 29th. Morgan Stanley  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Barclays  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to 
a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Oddo Bhf lowered shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Five equities research 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued  a buy rating to the company. According to 
MarketBeat, the company  has an average rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.08. 
NASDAQ RYAAY  opened at $100.69 on Monday. The firm has a market cap of $22.73 billion, a price-to-earnings 
ratio of -28.61 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a 50 day moving average of $108.90 and a 200-day moving 
average of $109.24. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $94.68 and a 1-year high of $127.25.  
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. Sells 11,231 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Why Invest in Dividend Kings 
Load-Date: December 20, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Delists From London Bourse
Ryanair Delists From London Bourse
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
December 20, 2021 Monday 4:44 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 54 words
Body
 Ryanair (RYA.L, RY4C.IR) shares were canceled from listing on the London stock exchange's main market 
Monday.
The Irish carrier is still listed on Euronext Dublin, and its American depositary receipts will continue to trade on 
Nasdaq, according to a same-day release.
Price (GBP): £14.41, Change: £+0.22, Percent Change: +1.55%
Load-Date: December 20, 2021
End of Document
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. Sells 11,231 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. Sells 11,231 Shares of Ryanair 
Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
December 20, 2021 Monday 10:11 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 789 words
Body
Dec 20, 2021( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. trimmed its position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
27.7% in the third quarter, according to its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). The firm owned 29,264 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 11,231 
shares during the period. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $3,221,000 as of its 
most recent SEC filing.  
Other hedge funds have also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the company. WealthShield Partners LLC 
boosted its holdings in Ryanair by 638.2% during the second quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $27,000 after acquiring an additional 217 shares during the 
period. Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair during the second quarter valued at about 
$46,000. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. raised its position in shares of Ryanair by 532.2% during the second 
quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued 
at $58,000 after buying an additional 463 shares during the last quarter. PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. 
acquired a new position in shares of Ryanair during the second quarter valued at about $79,000. Finally, Park 
Avenue Securities LLC acquired a new position in shares of Ryanair during the third quarter valued at about 
$223,000. Institutional investors own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
A number of research analysts have recently commented on RYAAY shares. Raymond James cut their price 
objective on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a 
research report on Monday, November 29th. Morgan Stanley reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Barclays reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to 
a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Oddo Bhf lowered shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Five equities research 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued a buy rating to the company. According to 
MarketBeat, the company has an average rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.08. 
NASDAQ RYAAY[1] opened at $100.69 on Monday. The firm has a market cap of $22.73 billion, a price-to-earnings 
ratio of -28.61 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a 50 day moving average of $108.90 and a 200-day moving 
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. Sells 11,231 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
average of $109.24. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $94.68 and a 1-year high of $127.25.  
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Why Invest in Dividend Kings[2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/dividends/kings/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 20, 2021
End of Document
Belarus opposition leader: Fight goes on after husband's arrest
Belarus opposition leader: Fight goes on after husband's arrest
Newstex Blogs 
Axios
December 20, 2021 Monday 8:25 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 740 words
Byline: Zachary Basu
Body
Dec 20, 2021( Axios: https://link.axios.com/join/am-signup?source=aci Delivered by Newstex)  
 Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, the exiled opposition leader of Belarus, was in a meeting with Western ambassadors to 
the EU last week when she learned that her husband had been sentenced[1] to 18 years in prison for his activism. 
What she's saying: "It was very emotionally difficult to accept, but it didn't change anything in our movement," 
Tsikhanouskaya told Axios in a Zoom interview from Vilnius, Lithuania. She fled there last year after Aleksandr 
Lukashenko's regime began rounding up opposition leaders. "It doesn't matter if people get five, 15, 18 years — we 
have to work, we have to do what we are doing. Just step by step, putting pressure on the regime, support civil 
society to release all our friends, all our beloved," she said."It was difficult emotionally to cope, but that day I did a 
lot of interviews and lived through this time after time after time. But I didn't cry. It was like emptiness inside." The 
big picture: Tsikhanouskaya has spent the last year meeting with countless government officials — including 
President Biden — to urge them not to forget the people fighting for democracy in Belarus. Lukashenko saw his iron 
grip on power shaken for the first time in three decades last August, when mass protests erupted after he claimed 
to have defeated Tsikhanouskaya by an implausible 70% in the 2020 presidential election.Lukashenko's swift and 
brutal crackdown was followed by multiple rounds of sanctions from the West — with Lukashenko picking further 
fights by forcing a Ryanair flight to land in order to arrest an activist and manufacturing a migrant crisis on his 
border with Poland. Between the lines: Tsikhanouskaya told Axios that in every meeting with U.S. and European 
officials, she urges them to close sanctions loopholes and stop with the "half measures" that give the regime 
"opportunity to survive." 
Flashback: Two years ago, Tsikhanouskaya was an English teacher, her husband was a blogger, and Secretary of 
State Mike Pompeo was meeting personally[2] with Lukashenko to try to build a wedge between Minsk and 
Moscow. Today, Tsikhanouskaya is the face of the democratic opposition, her husband is a political prisoner, and 
Lukashenko is a pariah waging a "hybrid war[3]" against the West. "You can't choose between that and this," 
Tsikhanouskaya responded, when asked whether she ever wishes she could return to her former life. "That time 
was wonderful from my private point of view. Everything was calm, I spent time with my children and my 
husband.""But the process that we are witnessing at the moment, the process in the country, in people's minds — 
it's such an important historical moment. Yes, it is difficult. But I'm sure no one's freedom has ever been given for 
nothing." The bottom line: "I want normal life with my husband, but in a democratic country." 
Belarus opposition leader: Fight goes on after husband's arrest
 [ 1]: https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/belarus-opposition-blogger-jailed/2021/12/14/6ecc6f16-5cd6-
11ec-b1ef-cb78be717f0e_story.html 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-51342197 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.axios.com/belarus-border-crisis-putin-biden-27fea381-5793-4b96-8e33-80b8ba6375b5.html 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 20, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 20, 2021 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 153 words
Body
Carnival 1245.8 -43.60 1890.2 1073 - -2.06 2138.0 CompassX 1556.5 32.00 1721.63 18.06 - -67.38 4965.0 Dalata 
Hotel 302.50 -12.50 414.50 272.00 - -11.55 65.5 easyJet 508.40 -17.20 1095 6.81 - -1.67 11309.2 FirstGrp 104.40 
2.80 110.70 63.55 - 26.77 4760.6 Flutter Entertainment 11195 195.00 19680.8 9912 - -281.28 526.4 Fuller A 
640.00 -20.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.33 46.8 Go-Ahead 642.50 32.50 1463 531.00 - -5.99 118.3 IntCon Htels Gp 4475 
-167.00 5568 4384 - -4417.57 1036.9 Intl Cons Air 132.04 -5.34 222.10 1.55 - -2.31 33785.6 MandarO $ 2.27 0.02 
2.36 1.65 - -7.46 23.6 Marstons 69.00 -0.30 105.50 63.56 - -1.05 1764.6 Natl Exp 249.20 13.80 413.50 206.70 - -
5.37 9445.5 PPHE Htl 1380 -32.00 1800 1175 - -6.13 3.4 Restaurt 80.40 -2.50 140.00 52.56 - 8.45 20461.7 
Ryanair Holdings PLC 326.00 9.00 338.60 250.00 1.01 55.25 572.0 TUI 215.50 -1.00 505.60 189.85 - -1.46 7315.6 
Whitbrd 2769 -129.00 3949.01 36.28 - -22.48 1102.7
Load-Date: December 19, 2021
End of Document
20 December 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
20 December 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
Newstex Blogs 
AirInsight
December 20, 2021 Monday 12:06 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 844 words
Byline: Addison Schonland
Body
Dec 20, 2021( AirInsight: http://airinsight.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Welcome to Morning Call for 20 December 2021, and the Top Aviation News Stories for today. You can also 
search our archives[1] for older news stories by date. AirInsight US Airline Index 
https://i2.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/12.20.1.jpg?ssl=1 https://i1.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-
content/uploads/2021/12/12.20.2.jpg?ssl=1 
https://i2.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-
content/uploads/2021/12/12.20.3.jpg?ssl=1 Commercial Aviation 
Embraer's New E195-E2 Airliner Competing Against Airbus A220 - BusInsider[2] Italy police seize parts in Boeing 
787 subcontractor probe: Ansa - BNN[3] Loss of Qantas and Air France-KLM deals to Airbus highlights Boeing's 
competitive gaps - Flight Global[4] 'One of the most beautiful aircraft ever flown' - end of an era as last Airbus A380 
superjumbo is delivered - Irish Independent[5] How decades of de-skilling at Boeing doomed two 737 MAX flights - 
SCMP[6] Boeing to build next airplane in virtual reality - RT[7] 
 Business Aviation 
 ArcosJet: Used bizjet prices to keep rising in 1H2022 - AIN[8] How eSAF is key to achieving the aviation industry's 
low carbon goals - BAN[9] 
 Airlines 
 Airlines brace for possible flight restrictions ahead of next year's 5G rollout - WSJ[10] Airline CEOs spar with 
Congress - Travel Pulse[11] Ryanair CEO O'Leary: Unvaccinated 'idiots' shouldn't fly - Newsmax[12] Sen. Cruz 
calls out United CEO for lying about how many staff he's fired as part of cruel vaccine mandate - Townhall[13] 
Southwest CEO tests positive for Covid after senate hearing - AJOT[14] 
Urban Air Mobility 
 Bristow teams with Overair on Butterfly eVTOL - AIN[15] Vertical makes Wall Street eVTOL takeoff with $300 
million flotation - FutureFlight[16] 
 Social Media 
 Gulfstream dirt strip takeoff - Twitter[17] An attempt by Freddie Laker to break into aircraft manufacturing - 
Twitter[18] 
Please follow and like us: 
20 December 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
 [ 
1]: 
https://airinsight.com/?s=morning+call&et_pb_searchform_submit=et_search_proccess&et_pb_include_posts=yes [ 
2]: https://www.businessinsider.com/inside-embraer-new-e195-e2-airliner-competing-against-airbus-a220-2021-12 [ 
3]: https://www.bnnbloomberg.ca/italy-police-seize-parts-in-boeing-787-subcontractor-probe-ansa-1.1697745 [ 4]: 
https://www.flightglobal.com/airframers/loss-of-qantas-and-air-france-klm-deals-to-airbus-highlights-boeings-
competitive-gaps/146875.article [ 5]: https://www.independent.ie/life/travel/travel-news/one-of-the-most-beautiful-
aircraft-ever-flown-end-of-an-era-as-last-a380-superjumbo-is-delivered-41158824.html 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.scmp.com/magazines/post-magazine/books/article/3160046/how-decades-deskilling-boeing-doomed-
two-737-max 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.rt.com/business/543472-boeing-virtual-reality-metaverse/ 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/business-aviation/2021-12-17/arcosjet-used-bizjet-prices-keep-rising-
1h2022 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.businessairnews.com/mag_story.html?ident=23279 
[ 
10]: 
https://www.wsj.com/articles/airlines-brace-for-flight-restrictions-in-5g-standoff-11639929603 
[ 
11]: 
https://www.travelpulse.com/news/airlines/airline-ceos-spar-with-congress.html 
[ 
12]: 
https://www.newsmax.com/newsfront/ryanair-michael-oleary-covid-19-pandemic/2021/12/18/id/1049190/ 
[ 
13]: 
https://townhall.com/tipsheet/rebeccadowns/2021/12/17/united-airlines-hearing-ted-cruz-n2600699 
[ 
14]: 
https://ajot.com/news/southwest-ceo-tests-positive-for-covid-after-senate-hearing 
[ 
15]: 
https://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/business-aviation/2021-12-17/bristow-teams-overair-butterfly-evtol [ 16]: 
https://www.futureflight.aero/news-article/2021-12-16/vertical-makes-wall-street-evtol-takeoff-300-million-flotation 
[ 
17]: 
https://twitter.com/PinedaLuca/status/1472212441278955525 
[ 
18]: 
https://twitter.com/birdseed501/status/1472506738444283909?s=27 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: January 3, 2022
End of Document
Teesside International Airport set for new Sky Bar as part of 'multi million-pound redevelopment'
Teesside International Airport set for new Sky Bar as part of 'multi million-
pound redevelopment'
Newstex Blogs 
Bdaily Business News
December 20, 2021 Monday 1:35 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 555 words
Byline: Matthew Neville
Body
Dec 20, 2021( Bdaily Business News: http://bdaily.co.uk/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Work to build Teesside International Airport's new Sky Bar, viewing platform and office space has now begun, as 
part of the next phase of the airport's transformation. 
 Both the landside Sky Bar and at-height viewing platform will be located in what is currently the ageing office space 
next to the security area. 
 The 1,360 sq m of office space being created will consist of a new steel frame extension and replace the old, 
disused, and dilapidated buffet restaurant area and offices transforming it into a two-floor bar, offering a modern 
and flexible space for business. 
 From today, the current viewing platform, drop-off point, and short-stay car park are closed to the public so that 
work can begin. The drop-off/short-stay will temporarily move to the main car park but the usual parking charges for 
these services will continue to apply. 
The scheme of works will start in January with the removal of cladding from the terminal building and demolition of 
external walls by a former courtyard. From February, the setting of foundations and the erection of the new steel 
frame extension and roof will begin. The viewing platform is due to be completed and open by May. 
 Work will be carried out by local firms Wharton Construction, 186 Property Solutions and ADL Developments, 
which have all previously been part of the terminal's 'multi million-pound redevelopment'. 
 Tees Valley mayor Ben Houchen commented: 'This latest work will see a fantastic new area created where people 
can kick back, relax and enjoy the best views in the country of aircraft taking off and landing. 
 '2022 will be the airport's busiest summer in years, with Ryanair committed to the same popular destinations it 
brought to us this year. It will also see the return of TUI, the world's leading holiday company, after nine years, so 
people can be assured there'll be plenty to see.' 
 Looking to promote your product/service to SME businesses in your region? Find out how Bdaily can help → [1] 
 [ 1]: https://marketing.bdaily.co.uk 
Teesside International Airport set for new Sky Bar as part of 'multi million-pound redevelopment'
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 20, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Short Interest Up 22.6% in November
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Short Interest Up 22.6% in 
November
American Banking and Market News
December 19, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 620 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) saw a large increase in short interest during the month of 
November. As of November 30th, there was short interest totalling 749,300 shares,  an increase of 22.6% from the 
November 15th total of 611,300 shares. Based on an average daily volume of 318,600 shares, the short-interest 
ratio is presently 2.4 days.  
•
Airline Stocks - Top Airline Stocks to Buy Now 
A number of research analysts recently commented on the stock. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reaffirmed a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Barclays  reaffirmed an "overweight" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded 
shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, 
November 8th. Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on 
Friday, September 17th. Finally, Raymond James dropped their target price on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to 
$138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on the stock in a research report on Monday, November 29th. Five equities 
research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the company's 
stock. According to MarketBeat, Ryanair presently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average price target of 
$122.08. 
Shares of RYAAY  opened at $100.69 on Friday. The company has a 50-day simple moving average of $108.90 
and a 200-day simple moving average of $109.32. Ryanair has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week high of 
$127.25. The company has a market capitalization of $22.73 billion, a PE ratio of -28.61 and a beta of 1.58. The 
company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
Institutional investors have recently made changes to their positions in the business. WealthShield Partners LLC 
boosted its position in  Ryanair by 638.2% during the second quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after purchasing an additional 217 shares during the 
period.  Assetmark Inc. boosted its position in  Ryanair by 133.6% during the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now 
owns 271 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $30,000 after purchasing an additional 155 shares 
during the period.  Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new stake in  Ryanair during the second quarter worth 
approximately $46,000.  JFS Wealth Advisors LLC bought a new stake in shares of  Ryanair in the third quarter 
valued at approximately $47,000.  Finally, Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its position in shares of  
Ryanair by 532.2% in the second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Short Interest Up 22.6% in November
transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the period. 
43.91% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Pattern Day Trader 
This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order 
to provide readers with the fastest and most accurate reporting. This story was reviewed by MarketBeat's editorial 
team prior to publication. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com
Load-Date: December 19, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Short Interest Up 22.6% in November
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Short Interest Up 22.6% in 
November
American Banking and Market News
December 19, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 556 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) saw a large increase in short interest during the month of 
November. As of November 30th, there was short interest totalling 749,300 shares,  an increase of 22.6% from the 
November 15th total of 611,300 shares. Based on an average daily volume of 318,600 shares, the short-interest 
ratio is presently 2.4 days.  
A number of research analysts recently commented on the stock. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reaffirmed a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Barclays  reaffirmed an "overweight" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded 
shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, 
November 8th. Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on 
Friday, September 17th. Finally, Raymond James dropped their target price on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to 
$138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on the stock in a research report on Monday, November 29th. Five equities 
research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the company's 
stock. According to MarketBeat, Ryanair presently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average price target of 
$122.08. 
Shares of RYAAY  opened at $100.69 on Friday. The company has a 50-day simple moving average of $108.90 
and a 200-day simple moving average of $109.32. Ryanair has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week high of 
$127.25. The company has a market capitalization of $22.73 billion, a PE ratio of -28.61 and a beta of 1.58. The 
company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
Institutional investors have recently made changes to their positions in the business. WealthShield Partners LLC 
boosted its position in  Ryanair by 638.2% during the second quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after purchasing an additional 217 shares during the 
period.  Assetmark Inc. boosted its position in  Ryanair by 133.6% during the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now 
owns 271 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $30,000 after purchasing an additional 155 shares 
during the period.  Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new stake in  Ryanair during the second quarter worth 
approximately $46,000.  JFS Wealth Advisors LLC bought a new stake in shares of  Ryanair in the third quarter 
valued at approximately $47,000.  Finally, Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its position in shares of  
Ryanair by 532.2% in the second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Short Interest Up 22.6% in November
transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the period. 
43.91% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Pattern Day Trader 
Load-Date: December 19, 2021
End of Document
Saturday papers: Fed official says first interest rate rise could by March
Saturday papers: Fed official says first interest rate rise could by March
Citywire
December 18, 2021 Saturday 4:54 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 652 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And Rishi Sunak and Boris Johnson plot emergency bailout for battered businesses.
Body
Top stories
•
Financial Times: The Federal Reserve could raise interest rates as early as March in the face of ‘alarmingly 
high inflation’, according to a senior US central bank official.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Rishi Sunak will this weekend hold emergency talks with Boris Johnson to finalise a 
rescue scheme for businesses as fears grow over a wave of corporate collapses triggered by the omicron 
variant of Covid.
•
The Times: New York has reported a record number of daily Covid-19 infections as the Omicron variant 
takes hold in the US at the outset the holiday season.
•
The Times: Russia has demanded that Nato, America and Britain withdraw all military bases and troops 
from central and eastern European countries, including those within the EU.
•
Financial Times: JP Morgan has agreed to pay US regulators a record $200m for failing to keep records of 
staff communications on personal devices.
•
Financial Times: Blackstone is close to acquiring a stake in one of New York’s newest office towers, in a 
deal that would value the 70-storey skyscraper at $2.85bn.
Business and economics
•
The Times: The Bank of England will need to raise interest rates further if inflation persists, its chief 
economist has said.
•
Financial Times: Turkey’s main stock exchange halted trading on Friday after the country’s currency crisis, 
already stinging bonds, spread to equities.
•
The Guardian: Visits to high streets and shopping centres have fallen ahead of what is traditionally the 
biggest shopping weekend of the calendar, with a 20% fall in central London footfall on Thursday 
prompting forecasts of a ‘muted’ end to a turbulent year.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Only vaccinated people should be allowed to fly, said Ryanair chief Michael O’Leary 
said as he launched a blistering attack on ‘idiot’ anti-vaxxers.
Saturday papers: Fed official says first interest rate rise could by March
•
The Times: A boom in takeovers and stock market flotations this year has given the investment bankers, 
lawyers and accountants who earn big fees for working on deals plenty to celebrate as 2021 comes to a 
close.
•
The Guardian: Just Eat has entered the fast grocery delivery market by partnering with Asda in its first tie-
up with a supermarket in the UK.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Ola has reached a truce with Transport for London, overturning a ban on the taxi-
booking app that is a rival to Uber.
•
The Guardian: The online ethical grocer Farmdrop has gone out of business a week before Christmas, 
leaving hundreds of customers who had ordered turkeys, geese and other festive food scrambling to find 
alternatives.
•
Daily Mail: KPMG has stopped bidding for government work after it was threatened with a ban following a 
string of scandals.
•
Daily Mail: HSBC has been fined £63.95m by the Financial Conduct Authority, which found multiple failings 
in the bank’s anti-money laundering processes.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Consumers are threatened with higher mobile phone bills if a £9bn takeover of 
mobile masts by the Spanish infrastructure empire Cellnex is allowed to go ahead as planned, the 
competition regulator has warned.
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Daily Telegraph (Questor share tips): Aim stocks let investors down this year – knowing the rules is 
vital to saving inheritance tax.
•
Daily Mail: Chemicals giant Johnson Matthey has announced the £325m sale of its health business to 
investment firm Altaris Capital Partners.
•
The Times: Rezolve, a start-up founded by Dan Wagner, the entrepreneur behind the collapsed Powa 
Technologies, has joined the Spac craze, striking a deal it says values the mobile commerce company at 
about $2bn.
•
The Times: Vertical Aerospace, a British electric flying taxi start-up, was formally welcomed to Wall Street 
yesterday as the New York Stock Exchange rang the opening bell in its honour at the start of trading.
•
Financial Times (Comment): The week central banks got the chills about inflation.
•
The Times (Comment): Potential investors will need to beware the £60 billion cloud hanging over BT.
Load-Date: December 18, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 18, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 147 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1245.8 41.20 1890.2 1073 - - 2069.4 CompassX 1556.5 22.00 1721.63 18.06 - - 4189.2 
Dalata Hote 302.50 13.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.55 486.0 easyJet 508.40 12.90 1095 6.81 - -1.67 10089.4 FirstGrp 
104.40 1.00 110.70 63.55 - 26.77 4708.9 Flutter Ent 11195 350.00 19680.8 9912 - -281.28 341.8 Fuller A 640.00 - 
977.73 580.00 - -7.33 43.9 Go-Ahead 642.50 27.50 1463 531.00 - -5.99 114.2 IntCon Htel 4475 46.00 5568 4384 - 
-4417.57 849.6 Intl Cons A 132.04 5.02 222.10 1.55 - -2.31 30745.4 MandarO $ 2.27 0.04 2.36 1.65 - -7.46 23.6 
Marstons 69.00 2.45 105.50 63.56 - -1.05 1707.7 Natl Exp 249.20 14.40 413.50 206.70 - -5.37 5834.1 PPHE Htl 
1380 30.00 1800 1175 - -6.13 3.4 Restaurt 80.40 4.70 140.00 52.56 - 8.45 16595.7 Ryanair Hol 326.00 9.00 338.60 
250.00 1.01 55.25 503.4 TUI 215.50 7.60 505.60 189.85 - -1.46 5187.7 Whitbrd 2769 56.00 3949.01 36.28 - -22.48 
991.0
Load-Date: December 17, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 18, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 147 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1245.8 41.20 1890.2 1073 - - 2069.4 CompassX 1556.5 22.00 1721.63 18.06 - - 4189.2 
Dalata Hote 302.50 13.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.55 486.0 easyJet 508.40 12.90 1095 6.81 - -1.67 10089.4 FirstGrp 
104.40 1.00 110.70 63.55 - 26.77 4708.9 Flutter Ent 11195 350.00 19680.8 9912 - -281.28 341.8 Fuller A 640.00 - 
977.73 580.00 - -7.33 43.9 Go-Ahead 642.50 27.50 1463 531.00 - -5.99 114.2 IntCon Htel 4475 46.00 5568 4384 - 
-4417.57 849.6 Intl Cons A 132.04 5.02 222.10 1.55 - -2.31 30745.4 MandarO $ 2.27 0.04 2.36 1.65 - -7.46 23.6 
Marstons 69.00 2.45 105.50 63.56 - -1.05 1707.7 Natl Exp 249.20 14.40 413.50 206.70 - -5.37 5834.1 PPHE Htl 
1380 30.00 1800 1175 - -6.13 3.4 Restaurt 80.40 4.70 140.00 52.56 - 8.45 16595.7 Ryanair Hol 326.00 9.00 338.60 
250.00 1.01 55.25 503.4 TUI 215.50 7.60 505.60 189.85 - -1.46 5187.7 Whitbrd 2769 56.00 3949.01 36.28 - -22.48 
991.0
Load-Date: December 17, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 18, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 147 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1245.8 41.20 1890.2 1073 - - 2069.4 CompassX 1556.5 22.00 1721.63 18.06 - - 4189.2 
Dalata Hote 302.50 13.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.55 486.0 easyJet 508.40 12.90 1095 6.81 - -1.67 10089.4 FirstGrp 
104.40 1.00 110.70 63.55 - 26.77 4708.9 Flutter Ent 11195 350.00 19680.8 9912 - -281.28 341.8 Fuller A 640.00 - 
977.73 580.00 - -7.33 43.9 Go-Ahead 642.50 27.50 1463 531.00 - -5.99 114.2 IntCon Htel 4475 46.00 5568 4384 - 
-4417.57 849.6 Intl Cons A 132.04 5.02 222.10 1.55 - -2.31 30745.4 MandarO $ 2.27 0.04 2.36 1.65 - -7.46 23.6 
Marstons 69.00 2.45 105.50 63.56 - -1.05 1707.7 Natl Exp 249.20 14.40 413.50 206.70 - -5.37 5834.1 PPHE Htl 
1380 30.00 1800 1175 - -6.13 3.4 Restaurt 80.40 4.70 140.00 52.56 - 8.45 16595.7 Ryanair Hol 326.00 9.00 338.60 
250.00 1.01 55.25 503.4 TUI 215.50 7.60 505.60 189.85 - -1.46 5187.7 Whitbrd 2769 56.00 3949.01 36.28 - -22.48 
991.0
Load-Date: December 17, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 18, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 21
Length: 147 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1245.8 41.20 1890.2 1073 - -2.06 9.4 CompassX 1556.5 22.00 1721.63 18.06 - -4189.2 
Dalata Hote 302.50 13.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.55 486.0 easyJet 508.40 12.90 1095 6.81 - -1.67 10089.4 FirstGrp 
104.40 1.00 110.70 63.55 - 26.77 4708.9 Flutter Ent11195 350.00 19680.8 9912 - -281.28 341.8 Fuller A 640.00 - 
977.73 580.00 - -7.33 43.9 Go-Ahead 642.50 27.50 1463 531.00 - -5.99 114.2 IntCon Htel4475 46.00 5568 4384 - -
4417.57 849.6 Intl Cons A132.04 5.02 222.10 1.55 - -2.31 30745.4 MandarO $ 2.27 0.04 2.36 1.65 - -7.46 23.6 
Marstons 69.00 2.45 105.50 63.56 - -1.05 1707.7 Natl Exp 249.20 14.40 413.50 206.70 - -5.37 5834.1 PPHE Htl 
1380 30.00 1800 1175 - -6.13 3.4 Restaurt 80.40 4.70 140.00 52.56 - 8.45 16595.7 Ryanair Hol326.00 9.00 338.60 
250.00 1.01 55.25 503.4 TUI 215.50 7.60 505.60 189.85 - -1.46 5187.7 Whitbrd 2769 56.00 3949.01 36.28 - -22.48 
991.0
Load-Date: December 17, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Average Rating of "Buy" from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Receives Average Rating of "Buy" 
from Brokerages
American Banking and Market News
December 17, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 578 words
Body
Ryanair Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have been given an average recommendation of "Buy" 
by the eighteen ratings firms that are  covering the stock, Marketbeat Ratings  reports. Five equities research 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have assigned  a buy rating to  the company. The 
average 12-month target price among analysts that have updated their coverage on the stock in the last year is 
$132.08.  
•
Airline Stocks - Top Airline Stocks to Buy Now 
Several equities research analysts have recently commented on RYAAY shares. Morgan Stanley  reissued an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Raymond James 
decreased their target price on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the 
company in a research report on Monday, November 29th. UBS Group  reissued a "neutral" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Credit Suisse Group  restated an "outperform" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  restated a 
"buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. 
RYAAY  opened at $99.50 on Friday. Ryanair has a 1-year low of $94.68 and a 1-year high of $127.25. The 
company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The company has a 
market cap of $22.46 billion, a P/E ratio of -28.27 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a fifty day moving average 
price of $109.21 and a two-hundred day moving average price of $109.48.  
Several hedge funds have recently made changes to their positions in the stock. Bank of New York Mellon Corp 
lifted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 1.0% during the 3rd quarter. Bank of New York Mellon Corp now owns 
1,464,054 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $161,134,000 after buying an additional 14,166 
shares in the last quarter.  Janus Henderson Group PLC lifted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 0.8% during the 3rd 
quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$325,096,000 after buying an additional 23,924 shares in the last quarter.  Rehmann Capital Advisory Group 
purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at approximately $212,000.  Migdal 
Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at 
approximately $91,000.  Finally, Squarepoint Ops LLC purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 3rd 
quarter valued at approximately $1,299,000. Institutional investors own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Average Rating of "Buy" from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: What is meant by holder of record? 
This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order 
to provide readers with the fastest and most accurate reporting. This story was reviewed by MarketBeat's editorial 
team prior to publication. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com
Load-Date: December 17, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Average Rating of "Buy" from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Receives Average Rating of "Buy" 
from Brokerages
American Banking and Market News
December 17, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 514 words
Body
Ryanair Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have been given an average recommendation of "Buy" 
by the eighteen ratings firms that are  covering the stock, Marketbeat Ratings  reports. Five equities research 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have assigned  a buy rating to  the company. The 
average 12-month target price among analysts that have updated their coverage on the stock in the last year is 
$132.08.  
Several equities research analysts have recently commented on RYAAY shares. Morgan Stanley  reissued an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Raymond James 
decreased their target price on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the 
company in a research report on Monday, November 29th. UBS Group  reissued a "neutral" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Credit Suisse Group  restated an "outperform" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  restated a 
"buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. 
RYAAY  opened at $99.50 on Friday. Ryanair has a 1-year low of $94.68 and a 1-year high of $127.25. The 
company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The company has a 
market cap of $22.46 billion, a P/E ratio of -28.27 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a fifty day moving average 
price of $109.21 and a two-hundred day moving average price of $109.48.  
Several hedge funds have recently made changes to their positions in the stock. Bank of New York Mellon Corp 
lifted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 1.0% during the 3rd quarter. Bank of New York Mellon Corp now owns 
1,464,054 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $161,134,000 after buying an additional 14,166 
shares in the last quarter.  Janus Henderson Group PLC lifted its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 0.8% during the 3rd 
quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$325,096,000 after buying an additional 23,924 shares in the last quarter.  Rehmann Capital Advisory Group 
purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at approximately $212,000.  Migdal 
Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at 
approximately $91,000.  Finally, Squarepoint Ops LLC purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the 3rd 
quarter valued at approximately $1,299,000. Institutional investors own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Average Rating of "Buy" from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: What is meant by holder of record? 
Load-Date: December 17, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Consensus Recommendation of 'Buy' from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Receives Consensus 
Recommendation of 'Buy' from Brokerages
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
December 17, 2021 Friday 9:20 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 822 words
Body
Dec 17, 2021( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has been assigned a consensus recommendation of "Buy" from the 
eighteen research firms that are currently covering the firm, Marketbeat Ratings[1] reports. Five investment analysts 
have rated the stock with a hold recommendation and twelve have assigned a buy recommendation to the 
company. The average 1-year target price among analysts that have updated their coverage on the stock in the last 
year is $132.08.  
A number of brokerages have recently commented on RYAAY. Peel Hunt upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Credit Suisse Group reiterated an 
"outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Deutsche Bank 
Aktiengesellschaft reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. 
Sanford C. Bernstein lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a 
research note on Monday, November 8th. Finally, Morgan Stanley reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. 
Shares of RYAAY stock[2] opened at $99.50 on Friday. The company has a 50 day moving average price of 
$109.21 and a 200-day moving average price of $109.48. Ryanair has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high 
of $127.25. The firm has a market capitalization of $22.46 billion, a PE ratio of -28.27 and a beta of 1.58. The 
company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
A number of large investors have recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. Lazard Asset Management LLC lifted 
its holdings in Ryanair by 6.3% during the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares 
in the last quarter. Capital International Investors raised its position in shares of Ryanair by 3.1% during the second 
quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$1,067,172,000 after buying an additional 294,131 shares during the last quarter. William Blair Investment 
Management LLC raised its position in shares of Ryanair by 14.3% during the second quarter. William Blair 
Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$243,862,000 after buying an additional 281,774 shares during the last quarter. Pendal Group Ltd bought a new 
stake in shares of Ryanair during the third quarter valued at approximately $30,945,000. Finally, Baillie Gifford & 
Co. raised its position in shares of Ryanair by 2.5% during the third quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Consensus Recommendation of 'Buy' from Brokerages
10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,186,170,000 after buying an additional 
264,133 shares during the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge 
funds.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: How prevalent are 12b-1 fees?[3] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/12b-1-fees-affect-on-mutual-fund-performance/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 17, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Average Rating of 'Buy' from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Receives Average Rating of 'Buy' 
from Brokerages
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
December 17, 2021 Friday 9:08 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 761 words
Body
Dec 17, 2021( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have been given an average recommendation of "Buy" by the 
eighteen ratings firms that are covering the stock, Marketbeat Ratings[1] reports. Five equities research analysts 
have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have assigned a buy rating to the company. The average 12-
month target price among analysts that have updated their coverage on the stock in the last year is $132.08.  
Several equities research analysts have recently commented on RYAAY shares. Morgan Stanley reissued an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Raymond James 
decreased their target price on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the 
company in a research report on Monday, November 29th. UBS Group reissued a "neutral" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Credit Suisse Group restated an "outperform" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft restated a "buy" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. 
RYAAY[2] opened at $99.50 on Friday. Ryanair has a 1-year low of $94.68 and a 1-year high of $127.25. The 
company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The company has a 
market cap of $22.46 billion, a P/E ratio of -28.27 and a beta of 1.58. The company has a fifty day moving average 
price of $109.21 and a two-hundred day moving average price of $109.48.  
Several hedge funds have recently made changes to their positions in the stock. Bank of New York Mellon Corp 
lifted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 1.0% during the 3rd quarter. Bank of New York Mellon Corp now owns 
1,464,054 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $161,134,000 after buying an additional 14,166 
shares in the last quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC lifted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 0.8% during the 3rd 
quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$325,096,000 after buying an additional 23,924 shares in the last quarter. Rehmann Capital Advisory Group 
purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at approximately $212,000. Migdal 
Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at 
approximately $91,000. Finally, Squarepoint Ops LLC purchased a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 3rd 
quarter valued at approximately $1,299,000. Institutional investors own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Average Rating of 'Buy' from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: What is meant by holder of record?[3] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-meant-by-holder-of-record/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 17, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 17, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 17
Length: 152 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1204.6 20.60 1890.2 1073 - -1.99 1729.4 CompassX 1534.5 27.00 1721.63 18.06 - -
66.43 3066.5 Dalata Hotel 285.50 -4.00 414.50 272.00 - -10.90 476.7 easyJet 495.50 9.60 1095 6.81 - -1.63 
5338.9 FirstGrp 103.40 0.40 110.70 63.55 - 26.51 2327.3 Flutter Entertainment 10845 185.00 19680.8 9912 - -
272.49 302.4 Fuller A 640.00 -20.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.33 43.1 Go-Ahead 615.00 - 1463 531.00 - -5.74 72.8 
IntCon Htels Gp 4429 30.00 5568 4384 - -4372.16 699.9 Intl Cons Air 127.02 1.22 222.10 1.55 - -2.22 23332.5 
MandarO $ 2.23 -0.01 2.36 1.65 - -7.29 13.1 Marstons 66.55 0.90 105.50 63.56 - -1.01 1377.9 Natl Exp 234.80 -
2.60 413.50 206.70 - -5.06 1526.4 PPHE Htl 1350 -34.00 1800 1175 - -6.00 2.7 Restaurt 75.70 2.00 140.00 52.56 - 
7.96 1945.6 Ryanair Holdings PLC 317.00 5.00 338.60 250.00 1.04 53.73 143.0 TUI 207.90 0.90 505.60 189.85 - -
1.41 3450.3 Whitbrd 2713 - 3949.01 36.28 - -22.02 533.1
Load-Date: December 16, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair boss says UK response to Omicron shaped by 'idiots'
Ryanair boss says UK response to Omicron shaped by 'idiots'
Newstex Blogs 
Business Matters
December 17, 2021 Friday 9:10 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 980 words
Byline: Business Matters
Body
Dec 17, 2021( Business Matters: http://www.bmmagazine.co.uk/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 The Ryanair boss, Michael O'Leary, has said the UK government's response to the Omicron Covid variant has 
been shaped by 'panic' and 'idiots', blaming travel restrictions for a million fewer passengers than forecast flying on 
his airline this month. 
The chief executive of Europe's biggest carrier contrasted the recent policies implemented in the UK demanding 
PCR tests for all arrivals with EU states where most fully vaccinated people can travel more freely. 
 Speaking from Dublin to the Guardian on Wednesday, he said: 'The panic is largely confined to the UK and Ireland. 
Across the continent there's been a much more reasoned approach.' 
 While Ryanair is offering fares of as little as 5 one way, O'Leary said 'price incentives are not going to make any 
difference' around Christmas, which he said was well-booked, but the airline would fly about 10 million people this 
month instead of the forecast 11 million, and would cut about 10% of its capacity in January. 
 He said: 'Where it's really hit us has been the early weeks of December, bookings in and out of Ireland and the UK 
The rest of the continent is still travelling for business and for leisure.' 
 O'Leary said the UK economy was suffering from 'piss-poor political leadership', adding: 'What deters booking is 
the whole uncertainty - this idea that if I travel abroad if the government changes the rules in 24 hours I could be 
stranded, even if Covid-free and vaccinated Travel only exists on a degree of confidence. 
 'People in the UK recognise that the government there are idiots. You wouldn't rely on [Boris] Johnson or Grant 
Shapps, or Dominic Raab who can't add or subtract - would you want your journey dependent on the intervention of 
those idiots? The answer is no.' 
 Before the mounting medical concern over Omicron, O'Leary declared: 'What's likely to happen is that we all get to 
Christmas, everybody calms down, the politicians fuck off for two weeks and everything settles down again. We'll 
arrive back in January and realise, as South Africa has been telling us for four weeks, it is not going to flood your 
hospitals.' 
 O'Leary said the airline had 'no issues' in Europe: 'They are all seeing an increase in case numbers but they're not 
having the same kind of 24-hour panic. I don't know if it is Johnson trying to cover his mismanagement of the 
Downing Street party shambles, who knows.' 
Ryanair boss says UK response to Omicron shaped by 'idiots'
 A Ryanair tweet that went viral sparked controversy this week. O'Leary said he had not seen it before publication, 
but added: 'I was very proud of it - I went over first thing yesterday [to the social media team] to say well done, let's 
do more of them.' 
 O'Leary offered some support for the prime minister by saying he was in favour of vaccine passports for travel, 
work and even shopping: 'We recognise your right to a choice [to not be vaccinated], but if you want to be some 
independent-minded idiot, sit at home. Why should people working in hospitals treat you and put themselves at 
risk?' 
 Ryanair will delist from the London Stock Exchange on Friday to deter UK shareholders, as it attempts to comply 
with EU ownership rules. O'Leary said it was 'an inevitability post Brexit', adding: 'Brexit has been a monstrous 
economic disaster delivered to you by those idiots Even the great Brexiteers, [Simon] Wolfson in Next, Tim Nice-
but-Dim Martin [of Wetherspoons] now want visas [for their staff].' 
 Meanwhile, O'Leary said Ryanair would be engaged in further legal battles this year with online travel agencies. He 
claimed customers were being overcharged by third-party websites for fares, seat selection and baggage when they 
would be better protected booking direct: 'They can only do it on an unsuspecting public who click on these paid-for 
ads on Google search, which take them off into online travel agencies. 
 'If it was an airline doing this egregious overcharging they'd be jumped on by consumer protection agencies. It's no 
skin off our nose - we still get the booking, we still get the money. But our passengers are being ripped off.' 
 O'Leary said the practice had been 'part of the issue' with complaints over slow refunds when flights were 
cancelled during Covid, leaving Ryanair unable to automatically alert on flight changes or refund customers 
because 'the money would end in the belly' of the online agencies. He estimated about 10-15% of passengers were 
booking through third parties. 
 Read more:  
Ryanair boss says UK response to Omicron shaped by 'idiots'[1] 
 [ 1]: https://bmmagazine.co.uk/news/ryanair-boss-says-uk-response-to-omicron-shaped-by-idiots/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 17, 2021
End of Document
3 Links I Love: AA Leadership Team, Ryanair Gets Cheeky, Leftover Pins, and More
3 Links I Love: AA Leadership Team, Ryanair Gets Cheeky, Leftover Pins, 
and More
Newstex Blogs 
The Cranky Flier
December 17, 2021 Friday 1:00 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 505 words
Byline: CF
Body
Dec 17, 2021( The Cranky Flier: http://www.crankyflier.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 This Week's Featured Link 
 American Airlines Announces Senior Leadership Team[1] - American Newsroom Here it is, the official leadership 
team under new American CEO Robert Isom and it's what you'd expect it to look like if you were hoping for 
continuity. Elise Eberwein will retire and her job is split between Ron DeFeo and Cole Brown. Steve Johnson looks 
like he gets to do special projects while two of his lieutenants move up to split his old job. Derek Kerr keeps CFO 
and moves to Vice Chair. The only surprise here is that Vasu Raja moves up from Chief Revenue Officer to Chief 
Commercial Officer, taking over sales and marketing that had fallen under Alison Taylor. Alison now reports to 
Vasu, so that feels like a demotion to me. 
 Tweet of the Week 
Oh, Ryanair. Never change. 
Two for the Road 
 Capital Markets Day[2] - Delta Delta had its investor day and you can read through the full powerpoint deck to get a 
handle on how Delta views itself these days. 
The Loss of My Favorite Travel Partner Forever[3] - AirlineReporter For those who haven't heard, AirlineReporter 
founder David Parker Brown lost his wife this summer to cancer. This is a nice tribute to their shared love of travel. 
The box of unused pins good luck not getting choked up when you get to that point. I think we need volunteers to 
start going on trips with David, because I'm pretty sure Brittany would want those pins put to good use. 
3 Links I Love: AA Leadership Team, Ryanair Gets Cheeky, Leftover Pins, and More
 [ 1]: https://news.aa.com/news/news-details/2021/American-Airlines-Announces-Senior-Leadership-Team-CORP-
EXEC-12/default.aspx 
[ 
2]: 
https://sec.report/Document/0001683168-21-006386/delta_ex9901.htm 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.airlinereporter.com/2021/12/the-loss-of-my-favorite-travel-partner-forever/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 17, 2021
End of Document
France to ban British tourists from Saturday
France to ban British tourists from Saturday
 
Proactive Investors (UK)
December 16, 2021 Thursday 11:54 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Proactive UK Ltd All Rights Reserved
Length: 296 words
Byline: Proactive
Body
British tourists will be banned from entering France from Saturday, 18 December 2021, due to the increase in 
the Omicron COVID-19 variant, according to French government spokesman Gabriel Attal.
The French administration qualified its statement by intimating that only "compelling reasons" - which do not include 
tourism and business - would allow such travel.
Without defining what those reasons would be, it said "for those able to travel from the UK under a compelling 
reason, there will be the obligation to register the address of their stay in France".
Attal told BFM television the measures will include reducing the validity of pre-departure PCR tests to 24 hours from 
48 for travellers arriving from Britain.
He said they will have to test again on arrival and isolate "in a place they choose" for at least 48 hours pending the 
result.
UK transport secretary Grant Shapps meanwhile tweeted, "to confirm, I have liaised with my French counterpart, 
and hauliers will remain exempt". 
Brittany Ferries has described the measures as a "hammer blow to our Christmas season".
Paul Charles, chief executive of travel consultancy The PC Agency, said: "Blanket country measures are a 
damaging backwards step and never work."
France to ban British tourists from Saturday
The Delta variant of COVID-19 remains dominant in France and its government is holding a virus security meeting 
on Friday to examine growing pressure on hospitals from rising infections in recent weeks.
Another 78,610 COVID cases were reported in the UK on Wednesday, 15 December 2021 - the highest daily 
number since the start of the pandemic.
Airlines are also likely to be impacted by the ban.
At the time of writing, share prices for easyJet PLC, RyanAir Hoildings PLC and International Airlines Consolidate 
Group (IAg) were 507.40, 14.16 and 129.78 respectively.
Load-Date: December 16, 2021
End of Document
Latvia 's airBaltic to open Tampere , Finland base in 2Q22
Latvia's airBaltic to open Tampere, Finland base in 2Q22
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 16, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 362 words
Body
airBaltic (BT, Riga) will open a base at Tampere in southern Finland on May 1, 2022, its first outside its home 
market in the Baltics.
The Latvian carrier will deploy a single A220-300 out of Tampere for use in launching new routes to Oslo 
Gardermoen, Copenhagen Kastrup, Frankfurt Int'l, Munich (3x weekly each), Malaga, and Rhodes (2x weekly 
each). It will also retain its 2x weekly services to Tampere from Riga, operated with an A220 based out of Latvia.
"We have been performing direct flights from Tampere to Riga for almost five years now. Our decision to open a 
new base in Tampere shows our strong commitment to this city and will offer more convenient and affordable travel 
options for many Finnish passengers," Chief Executive Martin Gauss said.
The airline will be the first to base aircraft out of Tampere. The ch-aviation schedules module shows that currently, 
the only other operator serving the Finnish city is Ryanair (FR, Dublin Int'l) with 2x weekly services to London 
Stansted. Finnair (AY, Helsinki Vantaa) and SAS Scandinavian Airlines (SK, Copenhagen Kastrup) are planning to 
resume flights from Helsinki Vantaa and Stockholm Arlanda to Tampere next summer.
airBaltic, which operates thirty-two A220-300s and has a further 18 on order from Airbus, has bases in Riga, Vilnius, 
and Tallinn Lennart Meri. The airline has previously indicated that it might explore bases outside of its home region 
given the limited growth potential a population of less than six million inhabitants has. In 2019, Gauss identified 
Scandinavia as a particularly interesting option.
"Expansion outside of the three Baltic states will initially take place in the north of Europe, in the Nordics, where we 
are already known. We will see which markets we can serve, and we will start slowly," he told ch-aviation in a 
recent interview.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
Latvia 's airBaltic to open Tampere , Finland base in 2Q22
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 16, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 155 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1184 -73.40 1890.2 1073 - -1.96 1125.7 CompassX 1507.5 -21.50 1721.63 18.06 - -65.26 
6527.7 Dalata Hotel 289.50 -13.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.06 52.6 easyJet 485.90 -21.70 1095 6.81 - -1.60 5677.8 
FirstGrp 103.00 -1.00 110.70 63.55 - 26.41 2657.5 Flutter Entertainment 10660 -30.00 19680.8 9912 - -267.84 
273.0 Fuller A 660.00 14.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.56 25.1 Go-Ahead 615.00 -1.00 1463 531.00 - -5.74 75.5 IntCon 
Htels Gp 4399 -80.00 5568 4384 - -4342.55 520.1 Intl Cons Air 125.80 -6.76 222.10 1.55 - -2.20 23083.7 MandarO 
$ 2.24 0.04 2.36 1.65 - -7.39 18.8 Marstons 65.65 -1.35 105.50 63.56 - -1.00 1356.1 Natl Exp 237.40 -1.80 413.50 
206.70 - -5.12 3451.2 PPHE Htl 1384 -46.00 1800 1175 - -6.15 0.0 Restaurt 73.70 -5.10 140.00 52.56 - 7.75 
2405.8 Ryanair Holdings PLC 312.00 2.00 338.60 250.00 1.06 52.88 448.4 TUI 207.00 -9.80 505.60 189.85 - -1.40 
3314.5 Whitbrd 2713 -101.00 3949.01 36.28 - -22.02 759.5
Load-Date: December 15, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair (RYAAY) Expects Capacity to be Omicron-Hit Until January
Ryanair (RYAAY) Expects Capacity to be Omicron-Hit Until January
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
December 16, 2021 Thursday 8:33 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1165 words
Byline: Zacks Equity Research
Body
Dec 16, 2021( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 With the highly contagious omicron variant of COVID-19 sweeping across Europe and causing panic, mainly in the 
UK and Ireland, Irish carrier Ryanair Holdings RYAAY[1] anticipates its current and next month's capacity to take a 
massive beating. 
Per a Reuters report[2], chief executive Michael O'Leary told the Guardian newspaper that the carrier will carry 
roughly 10% less passengers in December 2021 and January 2022. According to O'Leary, Ryanair intends to fly 
about 10 million people in the final month of 2021 (1 million less than the estimated figure). Moreover, RYAAY aims 
to trim its January schedule by roughly 10%. 
On a brighter note, O'Leary said that seats for the upcoming Christmas were 'well-booked'. He further added that 
the omicron-led panic was primarily restricted to the UK and Ireland while 'the rest of the continent is still travelling 
for business and for leisure". Zacks Rank & Key Picks Ryanair currently carries a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell). 
You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here[3]. 
Here are some better-ranked stocks within the broader Transportation [4]sector: 
Schneider National SNDR[5] sports a Zacks Rank #1, presently. SNDR's earnings outperformed the Zacks 
Consensus Estimate in each of the preceding four quarters, the average being 21%. 
Shares of Schneider National have rallied more than 25% so far this year. SNDR gets a boost from its strong 
Intermodal and Logistics units. The Intermodal segment is benefiting from yield management and increased 
volumes. The Logistics unit is thriving on the back of favorable market conditions and other factors. 
ArcBest Corporation ARCB[6] flaunts a Zacks Rank of 1, currently. ARCB's earnings trumped the Zacks Consensus 
Estimate in each of the trailing four quarters, the average being 27.4%. 
Shares of ArcBest have surged more than 100% so far this year. Improving freight conditions in the United States 
bode well for ARCB. Solid customer demand and higher market rates are driving growth at ARCB. 
Expeditors International of Washington EXPD[7] carries a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy), presently. EXPD has a stellar 
earnings surprise history. Its bottom line outperformed the Zacks Consensus Estimate in each of the preceding four 
quarters, the average being 29.1%. 
Shares of Expeditors have appreciated 42% so far this year. Increased airfreight revenues aid EXPD in this 
coronavirus-ravaged scenario. The metric soared approximately 54% year over year in the first nine months of 
2021. We are also encouraged by EXPD's measures to reward its shareholders through dividends and buybacks. 
Ryanair (RYAAY) Expects Capacity to be Omicron-Hit Until January
 Infrastructure Stock Boom to Sweep America  
 A massive push to rebuild the crumbling U.S. infrastructure will soon be underway. It's bipartisan, urgent, and 
inevitable. Trillions will be spent. Fortunes will be made. 
 The only question is 'Will you get into the right stocks early when their growth potential is greatest?' 
 Zacks has released a Special Report to help you do just that, and today it's free. Discover 5 special companies that 
look to gain the most from construction and repair to roads, bridges, and buildings, plus cargo hauling and energy 
transformation on an almost unimaginable scale. Download FREE: How to Profit from Trillions on Spending for 
Infrastructure  > >[8] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[9] Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[10] 
Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (EXPD): Free Stock Analysis Report[11] ArcBest Corporation (ARCB): 
Free Stock Analysis Report[12] Schneider National, Inc. (SNDR): Free Stock Analysis Report[13] To read this 
article on Zacks.com click here.[14] Zacks Investment Research[15] 
 [ 1]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY [ 2]: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ryanair-sees-omicron-hit-
december-071620021.html [ 3]: https://www.zacks.com/stocks/buy-list/?ADID=zp_1link&ICID=zpi%20_1link [ 4]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/industry-rank/sector/transportation-15 [ 5]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/SNDR 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/ARCB 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/EXPD 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/3b9f?add=1728&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_INFRASTRUCTUREREPORT_ANALYSTBLOG_257_12162021&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-
analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-1840327 
[ 
9]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-1840327 
[ 
10]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1840327 
[ 
11]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=EXPD&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1840327 
[ 
12]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZR_LINK&d_alert=rd_final_rank&t=ARCB&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZR_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1840327 
[ 
13]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=SNDR&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1840327 [ 14]: http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1840327/ryanair-ryaay-expects-capacity-to-
be-omicron-hit-until-january?cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-
1840327 [ 15]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Ryanair (RYAAY) Expects Capacity to be Omicron-Hit Until January
Load-Date: December 16, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Stock Passes Below 50 Day Moving Average of $16.37
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Stock Passes Below 50 Day Moving Average of $16.37
American Banking and Market News
December 15, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 202 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (LON:RYA) shares passed below its fifty day moving average during trading on 
Tuesday . The stock has a fifty day moving average of GBX 16.37 ($0.22) and traded as low as GBX 13.97 ($0.18). 
Ryanair shares last traded at GBX 14.37 ($0.19), with a volume of 965,437 shares traded.  
The company's fifty day simple moving average is GBX 16.37 and its two-hundred day simple moving average is 
GBX 16.32. The company has a quick ratio of 1.14, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 116.44. The 
company has a market capitalization of £162.88 million and a price-to-earnings ratio of -24.86.  
About Ryanair (LON:RYA ) 
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Germany, and Other European countries. It is also involved in the provision of various 
ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and internet-related services; in-flight sale of beverages, 
food, and merchandise; and marketing accommodation and hotel services, car hire, and travel insurance through its 
Website and mobile app. 
Recommended Story: Does a trade war provide a risk to the global economy? 
Load-Date: December 15, 2021
End of Document
Westpac Banking Corp Grows Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Westpac Banking Corp Grows Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
December 15, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 569 words
Body
Ryanair Westpac Banking Corp grew its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 12.3% in 
the 3rd quarter, according to its most recent Form 13F filing with the SEC. The institutional investor  owned 99,538 
shares of the transportation company's stock after buying an additional 10,908 shares during the period. Westpac 
Banking Corp's holdings in Ryanair were worth $10,955,000 at the end of the most recent reporting period.  
A number of other institutional investors also recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. WealthShield 
Partners LLC increased its position in  Ryanair by 638.2% during the second quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC 
now owns 251 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after buying an additional 217 shares in 
the last quarter.  Advisory Services Network LLC purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair in the second quarter 
valued at $46,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. grew its position in shares of  Ryanair by 532.2% in the 
second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $58,000 after purchasing an additional 463 shares during the period.  PNC Managed Account Solutions 
Inc. purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair in the second quarter valued at $79,000.  Finally, Park Avenue 
Securities LLC purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair in the third quarter valued at $223,000. 43.91% of the 
stock is owned by institutional investors.  
A number of brokerages have recently commented on RYAAY. Morgan Stanley  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Peel Hunt raised Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Oddo Bhf downgraded Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Credit Suisse Group  
reaffirmed an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, 
Raymond James reduced their target price on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on 
the stock in a report on Monday, November 29th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and 
twelve have issued  a buy rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat.com, the stock  has a consensus 
rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.08. 
Shares of RYAAY  opened at $98.15 on Wednesday. The stock's 50-day moving average is $109.77 and its two-
hundred day moving average is $109.63. The stock has a market cap of $22.16 billion, a PE ratio of -27.88 and a 
beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of $127.25. The company 
has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Westpac Banking Corp Grows Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: What is a bull market?  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: December 15, 2021
End of Document
Dreaded red list scrapped as travel firms get reprieve
Dreaded red list scrapped as travel firms get reprieve
City A.M.
December 15, 2021 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 5
Length: 346 words
Byline: ILARIA GRASSO MACOLA
Body
THE DREADED red list forcing arrivals into the UK into expensive hotel quarantine is no more.
From today arrivals from the last 11 countries remaining on the UK's travel red list will no longer have to quarantine, 
following the UK government's decision to scrap the list altogether.
The news boosted airline shares, with Ryanair, Easyjet and BA owner IAG up between 0.8 AND 1.5 per cent 
increase.
Health secretary Sajid Javid confirmed the decision, stressing the need for other measures - including pre-
departure testing and Day 2 PCRs - to remain.
"Now that there is community transmission, the travel red list is less effective," Javid said.
Initially re-introduced two weeks ago following concerns over the new Omicron variant, the list's rescission means 
the government is now accepting that Omicron - which now accounts for 20 per cent of all Covid cases in England - 
can no longer be contained.
The news received a lukewarm response by the travel and aviation industries, as they remain per- plexed with 
mandatory testing.
Airlines UK's boss Tim Alderslade said the move "makes complete sense but doesn't nearly go far enough."
"If the red list isn't necessary given that Omicron is established here at home, then neither are the costly emergency 
testing and isolation measures imposed on even fully vaccinated travellers, which again put us completely at odds 
with the rest of Europe," he said. "It is testing that is the deterrent to travel, not the relatively limited red list."
Dreaded red list scrapped as travel firms get reprieve
Alderslade also pushed for a reduction in the testing requirements for travellers over the festive period.
However, rumblings in Paris may put a spanner in the works, with the threat of more - not fewer - rules for travelling 
abroad. Yesterday French government spokesperson Gabriel Attal told France Info Radio it could strengthen its 
current rules, which require travellers from the UK to show a negative test from the past two days.
He said: "We are always looking at means to tighten the framework, we are currently working on that and we 
should, I think, come to a conclusion in the coming days."
Load-Date: December 15, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 15, 2021 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 153 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1257.4 27.60 1890.2 1073 - -2.08 1801.3 CompassX 1529 19.00 1721.63 18.06 - -66.19 
3760.2 Dalata Hotel 302.50 0.50 414.50 272.00 - -11.55 54.7 easyJet 507.60 3.80 1095 6.81 - -1.67 4608.5 
FirstGrp 104.00 2.20 110.70 63.55 - 26.67 3471.8 Flutter Entertainment 10690 30.00 19680.8 9912 - -268.59 256.2 
Fuller A 646.00 6.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.40 34.5 Go-Ahead 616.00 6.00 1463 531.00 - -5.75 96.6 IntCon Htels Gp 
4479 -10.00 5568 4389 - -4421.52 679.1 Intl Cons Air 132.56 2.26 222.10 1.55 - -2.32 27119.0 MandarO $ 2.20 -
0.05 2.36 1.65 - -7.24 74.8 Marstons 67.00 0.45 105.50 63.56 - -1.02 2691.4 Natl Exp 239.20 4.00 413.50 206.70 - 
-5.16 2163.4 PPHE Htl 1430 30.00 1800 1175 - -6.36 1.5 Restaurt 78.80 -0.90 140.00 52.56 - 8.29 2760.2 Ryanair 
Holdings PLC 310.00 -0.50 338.60 250.00 1.06 52.54 586.1 TUI 216.80 5.50 505.60 189.85 - -1.47 5028.1 Whitbrd 
2814 17.00 3949.01 36.28 - -22.84 486.1
Load-Date: December 14, 2021
End of Document
BA restarts Gatwick operations to rival short-haul star Easyjet
BA restarts Gatwick operations to rival short-haul star Easyjet
City A.M.
December 15, 2021 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 161 words
Byline: ILARIA GRASSO MACOLA
Body
BRITISH AIRWAYS (BA) announced yesterday it will restart flying from Gatwick from March 2022, selling tickets for 
35 destinations that will be part of its short-haul subsidiary British Airways's operations.
Created to compete with the likes of Easyjet and Ryanair, the subsidiary company will begin to operate as a 
standalone business from August, with BA initially running short-haul flights until BA's Air Operators certificate is 
ready. Mainline BA will start with three short-haul Airbus planes, ramping up to 18 aircraft by the end of May.
BA recently started recruiting pilots for the Gatwick subsidiary, looking for applicants that can fly an Airbus A320 on 
European routes.
After months of tensions between BA and unions - especially with the British Airline Pilots Association - the carrier 
finally received backing in early November with Luis Gallego, boss of BA's owner IAG.
After a 5.29 per cent slump on Monday, IAG's shares were up 1.73 per cent yesterday.
Graphic
 
BA signed a letter asking the Prime Minister to remove travel restrictions
BA restarts Gatwick operations to rival short-haul star Easyjet
Load-Date: December 15, 2021
End of Document
United Airlines set to Purchase 100 Hydrogen-Electric Engines
United Airlines set to Purchase 100 Hydrogen-Electric Engines
Newstex Blogs 
Financial Buzz
December 14, 2021 Tuesday 8:05 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 524 words
Byline: Rebecca Urena
Body
Dec 14, 2021( Financial Buzz: http://www.financialbuzz.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 United Airlines (NASDAQ: UAL) revealed plans to purchase approximately 100 hydrogen-electric engines, after 
taking an equity stake in ZeroAvia. The engine is detailed as zero-emission and 100% hydrogen-electric. 
 According to the airline, the engine is 'expected to be used in pairs as a new power source for existing regional 
aircraft.' 
 United said it would enter a conditional purchase agreement for 50 of the engines, with the choice for 50 more. It 
highlighted that the tech can be modified to fit existing regional aircraft by 2028. CEO Scott Kirby said that 
hydrogen-electric engines were 'one of the most promising paths to zero-emission air travel for smaller aircraft.' 
 ZeroAvia's previous investors include Alaska Air Group, Amazon's Climate Pledge Fund, AP Ventures, 
Breakthrough Energy Ventures, Horizons Ventures, Summa Equity, and Shell Ventures. The hydrogen-electric 
aircraft developer has managed to attract USD115 Million of investment from those various stakeholders. 
 According to the World Wildlife Fund, air travel is 'the most carbon-intensive activity an individual can make.' 
Consequently, there have been many discussions regarding aviation and how new tech could reduce its 
environmental footprint. 
 Though the enthusiasm is present, several people within the industry are cautious about the future technology 
within the sector. CEO of Ryanair, Michael O'Leary is one of the individuals that remain tentative. 
 'I think we should be honest again,' he said. 'Certainly, for the next decade I don't think you're going to see any — 
there's no technology out there that's going to replace carbon, jet aviation.' 
 'I don't see the arrival of hydrogen fuels, I don't see the arrival of sustainable fuels, I don't see the arrival of electric 
propulsion systems, certainly not before 2030,' he added. 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
United Airlines set to Purchase 100 Hydrogen-Electric Engines
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 14, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 14, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 155 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1229.8 -59.60 1890.2 1073 - -2.04 1314.2 CompassX 1510 -14.50 1721.63 18.06 - -65.37 
2330.4 Dalata Hotel 302.00 -13.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.53 793.3 easyJet 503.80 -21.80 1095 6.81 - -1.66 5920.0 
FirstGrp 101.80 0.20 110.70 63.25 - 26.10 1700.2 Flutter Entertainment 10660 -340.00 19680.8 9912 - -267.84 
243.3 Fuller A 640.00 -20.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.33 17.9 Go-Ahead 610.00 - 1463 531.00 - -5.69 142.5 IntCon Htels 
Gp 4489 -153.00 5568 4389 - -4431.39 464.9 Intl Cons Air 130.30 -7.08 222.10 1.55 - -2.28 25756.5 MandarO $ 
2.25 -0.01 2.36 1.65 - -7.41 28.5 Marstons 66.55 -2.75 105.50 59.35 - -1.01 1796.3 Natl Exp 235.20 -0.20 413.50 
206.70 - -5.07 1350.0 PPHE Htl 1400 -12.00 1800 1175 - -6.22 6.1 Restaurt 79.70 -3.20 140.00 52.56 - 8.38 
2454.1 Ryanair Holdings PLC 310.50 -6.50 338.60 250.00 1.06 52.63 192.1 TUI 211.30 -5.20 505.60 189.85 - -1.43 
3373.9 Whitbrd 2797 -101.00 3949.01 36.28 - -22.70 432.8
Load-Date: December 13, 2021
End of Document
BA starts selling tickets for its Euroflyer Gatwick subsidiary
BA starts selling tickets for its Euroflyer Gatwick subsidiary
Newstex Blogs 
AirInsight
December 14, 2021 Tuesday 12:06 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 823 words
Byline: Richard Schuurman
Body
Dec 14, 2021( AirInsight: http://airinsight.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 British Airways[1]will launch operations of its new London Gatwick-based short-haul subsidiary BA Euroflyer on 
March 29. The airline has announced 35 destinations that it will serve and has opened bookings today, December 
14. BA starts selling tickets for its EuroFlyer Gatwick subsidiary. 
 BA CEO Sean Doyle revealed in August that it planned to set up a new short-haul subsidiary at Gatwick to 
compete with its low-cost rivals Ryanair and easyjet. Easyjet has a strong presence at Gatwick and plans to expand 
this coming summer, it recently confirmed during its full-year results presentation. BA lost market share at London's 
second airport when it suspended services at the start of the first Covid crisis in March 2020. 
 British Airways' new airline will operate under the same brand, but as BA EuroFlyer will be a stand-alone airline 
with its own lower-cost business model that mirrors that of BA CityFlyer at London City Airport. When BA unveiled 
its plan in August, it met strong opposition from cabin crew unions. Pilot union BALPA cautiously welcomed the plan 
to 'create a number of much needed new pilot jobs. BALPA and BA are in the final stages of negotiations over the 
revised pay and conditions for Gatwick-based BA pilots and we hope to bring these talks to a conclusion shortly.' 
 In a ballot in early October, 82 percent of the responding pilots supported the low-cost initiative, after which BALPA 
union signed an agreement with BA. In early November, the airline reached an agreement with Unite, which 
represents some 10.000 cabin crew. Unite initially strongly opposed what it called inferior'' terms and conditions of 
the new airline. As a result of the Covid crisis, BA has slashed 10.000 jobs including 4.700 cabin crew members. In 
recent months, BA has started rehiring some 3.000 again. Parent International Airline Group (IAG) said early 
November it was positive about reaching consensus [2]with the unions. 
AOC not expected until next autumn 
BA Euroflyer still has to receive its Airline Operator Certificate (AOC), which isn't expected until autumn 2022. 
Therefore, BA's mainline airline will operate the first flights with three Airbus[3] A320s, expanding the fleet to 
eighteen aircraft by the end of May. 
 The airline has started selling tickets today at 39 to 35 destinations. On March 29, it will operate the first services to 
Amsterdam, Sevilla, Verona, Larnaca, Paphos, and Tenerife. On the 30th, Malta, Arrecife, and Faro will follow. 
March 31 will see Catania, Malaga, Marrakech, and Nice added to the schedule, Alicante on April 1, Antalya and 
Las Palmas on April 2, Bari on April 3, Dubrovnik and Turin on April 4, with another sixteen destinations to follow 
until May 4. These include Berlin, Milan, and Athens but also sunny destinations like Santorini and Thessaloniki. BA 
BA starts selling tickets for its Euroflyer Gatwick subsidiary
said the airline offers the same 'high level of service' and 'generous baggage allowance' as the mother airline and 
lounge access to frequent flyers. 
 In a media statement, Sean Doyle says: 'Today is a landmark moment for British Airways. The creation of a new 
British Airways short-haul organization means Gatwick customers will benefit from access to a premium service 
from the UK's flag carrier at competitive prices. We are looking forward to bringing a short-haul network back to 
Gatwick, with a fantastic flying team in place, to serve our customers from London's second hub airport, which we 
feel sure will be a success.' 
Please follow and like us: 
 [ 
1]: 
http://www.ba.com 
[ 
2]: 
https://airinsight.com/iag-reaches-inflection-point-and-reduces-losses/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://airinsight.com/category/aerospace/airbus/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 14, 2021
End of Document
Airline bosses demand emergency Covid tests are scrapped
Airline bosses demand emergency Covid tests are scrapped
 
Proactive Investors (UK)
December 13, 2021 Monday 03:42 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Proactive UK Ltd All Rights Reserved
Length: 381 words
Byline: Proactive
Body
Bosses from eight of the UK's major airlines have written to the government demanding an end to new PCR testing 
measures and more economic support for the sector
Top executives at Ryanair Holdings PLC (LSE:RYA), easyJet plc (LSE:EZJ), IAG's (LSE:IAG) British Airways and 
Jet2 were signatories to the letter that accused the government of a "haphazard and deeply disproportionate" 
approach to the Omicron variant of Covid-19.
Under the new measures, all arrivals in England irrespective of their vaccination status are required to take a lateral 
flow test pre-departure and a PCR on their second day here through an approved provider
According to the airline bosses: "Pre-departure and upon-arrival testing clearly add very little value to our Covid 
protection, but unnecessarily disrupt Christmas for families as well as businesses while severely damaging the UK 
travel industry.
"Travel has been singled out with the introduction of disproportionate restrictions," said the letter.
They want an end to testing for fully vaccinated passengers in the next UK travel review on 20 December, pointing 
out that only the UK requires this level of testing.
"A package of bespoke economic support measures should be provided immediately to bridge the sector through 
this crisis.
Airline bosses demand emergency Covid tests are scrapped
"We and our customers feel sincerely let down, having believed a more pragmatic, evidence-led approach to travel, 
in line with the rest of the world, had been achieved and agreed by all concerned just a few months ago.
"Instead, the layering of additional travel restrictions, introduced at short notice without consultation or discernible 
strategy, have disrupted Christmas plans and severely undermined customer sentiment."
Airlines shares were among the worst performers today with British Airways owner IAG and easyJet down 5%, 
Ryanair off by 3.7% and Jet2 by 4.8%.
Earlier, pub group JD Wetherspoon Plc (LSE:JDW) warned that the impact of the new restrictions allied to 
government warnings about the possible impact of Omicron was already having an effect on its business.
Pointing out that many of its customers were elderly and cautious, the FTSE 250 group said: "The implementation 
of Plan B would 'affect our first-half results, in particular, which may be loss-making or marginally profitable."
JDW shares fell 6% to 816p.
Load-Date: December 14, 2021
End of Document
European ADRs Move Lower in Monday Trading
European ADRs Move Lower in Monday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
December 13, 2021 Monday 11:13 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 236 words
Body
 American depositary receipts of European stocks were trading 0.64% lower at 1,125.08 on the S&P/BNY Mellon 
Europe Select ADR Index on Monday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by biopharmaceutical company Genfit (GNFT) and biotech firm 
BioNTech (BNTX), which climbed 7.2% and 6.2% respectively. They were followed by biopharmaceutical 
companies Atai Life Sciences (ATAI) and Biofrontera (BFRA), which rose 4.3% and 3.7%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by biometrics company IDEX Biometrics (IDBA) and luxury e-
commerce platform MYT Netherlands Parent (MYTE), which fell 7.6% and 5.4% respectively. They were followed 
by internet advertising firm Criteo (CRTO) and shipping company Navios Maritime Partners (NMM), which dropped 
4.2% and 2.5%.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by biopharmaceutical company Mereo BioPharma Group (MREO) and 
pharmaceutical company Avadel Pharmaceuticals (AVDL), which rose 2.5% and 1.9% respectively. They were 
followed by biopharmaceutical companies Bicycle Therapeutics (BCYC) and Verona Pharma (VRNA), which were 
up 1.7% and 1.4%.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by biotech firm Autolus Therapeutics (AUTL) and cruise line operator 
Carnival Corporation (CUK), which lost 12% and 6% respectively. They were followed by bank holding company 
Lloyds Banking Group (LYG) and airline operator Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY), which were down 3.8% and 3.7%.
Load-Date: December 13, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair to re-open Nuremberg base in summer 2022
Ryanair to re-open Nuremberg base in summer 2022
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 13, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 301 words
Body
Ryanair (FR, Dublin Int'l) will re-open a base in Nuremberg in southern Germany next summer with two aircraft, 
opening 13 new destinations in Europe, the Irish budget carrier announced.
New routes will include Banja Luka (Bosnia & Herzegovina); Cagliari and Venice Marco Polo (Italy); Chania 
(Greece); Dublin Int'l (Ireland); Faro and Funchal (Portugal), Girona, Ibiza, and Valencia Manises (Spain); Lviv 
(Ukraine); Sofia (Bulgaria); and Tallinn Lennart Meri (Estonia). Ryanair will serve 27 destinations with 85 weekly 
flights from March 2022.
Ryanair shut its base at Nuremberg in 2019 due to delays in the delivery of its B737-8-200s after the type was 
grounded following two fatal crashes.
The base re-opening will mean an investment of USD200 million and the creation of 60 local direct jobs and almost 
1,000 total jobs in the region, the airline said in a statement.
Chief Executive Officer Eddie Wilson took the opportunity to point out that the budget carrier was investing in the 
regional airport "at a time when the German government is abandoning its regional airports in favour of legacy 
airlines and major airports". "At a time when Lufthansa (LH, Frankfurt Int'l) was reducing their fleet, cutting jobs, and 
closing routes while wasting EUR9 billion of taxpayers' money in state aid funding, Ryanair would be doubling its 
Summer 2022 schedule at Nuremberg and rebuilding tourism and creating well-paid local jobs in Germany with 
zero state aid," he said.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Airlines bosses urge extension to Covid scheme
Airlines bosses urge extension to Covid scheme
City A.M.
December 13, 2021 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 298 words
Byline: STEFAN BOSCIA
Body
BOSSES from British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and Easyjet are set to ask the Treasury to extend their Covid-19 loans 
and provide further economic help in light of new restrictions imposed by Boris Johnson last week.
Chief executives from the three airlines will meet with civil servants at the Treasury today to discuss the proposals, 
after airports this week warned of increasing numbers of passenger cancellations.
Loans taken out with the government's Covid lending programme are due at the end of next year, however the 
aviation industry is facing a far longer road to post-Covid economic recovery than most other industries.
The Sunday Telegraph reports that the UK airlines will also raise the prospect of business rates relief with Treasury 
permanent secretary Charles Roxburgh, after Rishi Sunak failed to announce any new economic support to go 
along with the new Covid restrictions.
A suite of measures have been brought in as the Omicron variant spreads across the UK, which includes forcing 
international arrivals to self-isolate until they have a negative PCR test.
Heathrow Airport has warned that passenger numbers in November were 60 per cent lower than pre-pandemic 
levels and that there were "high cancellations" this week from business travellers concerned about new restrictions 
imposedUK airlines will raise the prospect of business rates relief worldwide. "[The] high level of cancellations by 
business travellers concerned about being trapped overseas because of pre-departure testing shows the potential 
harm to the economy of travel restrictions," the airport said British Airways' holding company International Airlines 
Group (IAG), Easyjet and Ryanair all received money through the Bank of England's Covid Corporate Financing 
Fund, which provided large cash injections.
Airlines bosses urge extension to Covid scheme
Load-Date: December 13, 2021
End of Document
Airlines seek loans extension in attack on latest Covid curbs Travel
Airlines seek loans extension in attack on latest Covid curbs; Travel
Financial Times (London, England)
December 13, 2021 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 428 words
Byline: TOM WILSON
Body
The British airline industry has called for a new package of economic support and for the additional testing of fully 
vaccinated passengers to be scrapped, in a public attack on the latest UK travel restrictions aimed at tackling the 
spread of the Omicron Covid variant. The chief executives of British Airways, Virgin Atlantic, Ryanair and easyJet 
described the new pre- and post-departure testing of UK-bound passengers as "disproportionate" and said it risked 
causing "permanent scarring" to the industry.
The open letter, which was also signed by the heads of Loganair, Jet2, Tui and the industry association Airlines UK, 
was published early today ahead of a meeting between executives and government officials later in the day.
"Whilst we fully recognise the need to take steps to contain the initial impact of the Omicron variant, travel has been 
singled out with the introduction of disproportionate restrictions," the executives said.
"Further, pre-departure and upon-arrival testing clearly add very little value to our Covid protection, but 
unnecessarily disrupt Christmas for families as well as businesses while severely damaging the UK travel industry," 
the executives added.
Under the new measures, travellers to the UK must take a PCR coronavirus test before departure and after arrival, 
adding expense and complication to journeys. Previously, fully vaccinated passengers were only required to take 
one lateral flow test, two days after landing.
Airlines seek loans extension in attack on latest Covid curbs Travel
The airline industry has asked for those measures to be scrapped when they are formally reviewed by the 
government on December 20 and for new economic support to "bridge the sector through the crisis".
Airline executives will request an extension to outstanding pandemic loans issued by the government and, if the 
travel restrictions are not lifted soon, a new aviation sector furlough scheme, according to one person familiar with 
their thinking. Given the level of debt already taken on by some airlines, the industry was also likely to ask for grant 
support, the person added.
Before the alarm caused by the Omicron variant, the airline industry had just begun to recover after 20 months of 
disruption.
That recovery was now stalling, the executives said, with the new restrictions disrupting travel and threatening to 
dent customer sentiment ahead of the crucial New Year booking season, when up to 30 per cent of annual tickets 
are sold.
The airline executives said they had seen "immediate problems with red list arrivals" such as official hotels that 
were not ready or fully booked, stranding travellers abroad.
Load-Date: December 12, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair, British Airways CEOs Ask For Government Support Amid New Travel Restrictions
Ryanair, British Airways CEOs Ask For Government Support Amid New 
Travel Restrictions
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
December 13, 2021 Monday 1:03 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 98 words
Body
 British airline heads requested financial support from the government as it imposed travel restrictions to curb the 
spread of COVID-19's omicron variant, Bloomberg News reported Monday.
A letter from airlines including International Consolidated Airlines (IAG.L)-owned British Airways and Ryanair 
(RYA.L, RY4C.IR) said the industry was worried about the government's "haphazard and disproportionate 
approach" to travel restrictions.
The letter also asked to remove the emergency testing requirement for fully vaccinated passengers.
Price (GBP): £137.38, Change: £-0.64, Percent Change: -0.46%
Load-Date: December 13, 2021
End of Document
Investors In Airline Industry Buckle Up Amid Another Bout Of Turbulence
Investors In Airline Industry Buckle Up Amid Another Bout Of Turbulence
Newstex Blogs 
ValueWalk
December 13, 2021 Monday 7:35 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 754 words
Body
Dec 13, 2021( ValueWalk: https://www.valuewalk.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Hans[1] / Pixabay 
'Worries about plunging confidence amongst the travelling public and concerns about future travel restrictions being 
imposed due to the spread of the Omicron variant have led to fresh volatility for airline stocks and companies reliant 
on the industry. Investors[2] have had to buckle up for yet another burst of severe turbulence affecting the sector. 
 Get The Full Walter Schloss Series in PDF 
 Get the entire 10-part series on Walter Schloss in PDF. Save it to your desktop, read it on your tablet, or email to 
your colleagues. 
 Q3 2021 hedge fund letters, conferences and more[3] 
This Value Fund Has Been Using The Volatility To Add To Positions 
 DG Value Partners II Class A was down 4.97% for November, while Class C declined 7.53% net. Year to date, 
Class A is up 19.45% net, while Class C has returned 37.08%. DG Value Partners II focuses on event-driven value 
opportunities in the middle-market segment. It looks for securities priced below their intrinsic value with Read 
More[4] The Airline Industry Asks For Government Assistance 
It comes amid reports that British Airways owner International Consolidated Airlns Grp SA (LON:IAG) and 
Ryanair[5] Holdings plc (LON:RYA) have asked for government assistance to help them through another bleak 
winter. Shares in both companies fell sharply on Monday with losses accelerating towards the end of the working 
day after it's feared new testing requirements will cause severe repercussions in terms of booking rates over the 
coming months. News that Air France and KLM may seek a fresh capital raise is also weighing on the sector which 
has pushed Rolls Royce and Melrose lower, given how reliant both companies are on the health of commercial 
aviation. 
 There has been further downward pressure on the oil price[6] following the recovery last week, putting pressure on 
Royal Dutch Shell plc (NYSE:RDS.B) due to concerns the rapid spread of Omicron and reduced effectiveness of 
vaccines will lead to lower global demand as countries batten down the hatches and wait for a fresh wave of 
Investors In Airline Industry Buckle Up Amid Another Bout Of Turbulence
infections to hit. However mining stocks are higher with investors looking to the prospects of better growth in 2022 
with the news that Beijing stands prepared to turn on the stimulus taps next year to help with the recovery, by 
cutting the amount of money it requires banks to hold in reserve as a share of deposits." 
 Article by Susannah Streeter, senior investment and markets analyst, Hargreaves Lansdown 
About Hargreaves Lansdown 
Over 1.67 million clients trust us with 138.0 billion (as at 30 September 2021), making us the UK's number one 
platform for private investors. More than 98% of client activity is done through our digital channels and over 600,000 
access our mobile app each month.  
 Updated on Dec 13, 2021, 2:33 pm 
 [ 
1]: 
https://pixabay.com/users/Hans/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.valuewalk.com/value-investing/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://valuewalkpremium.com/q3-2021-hedge-fund-letters/ [ 4]: https://valuewalkpremium.com/this-value-fund-has-
been-using-the-volatility-to-add-to-positions/ [ 5]: https://www.valuewalk.com/look-ahead-q2-earnings-tesla-ryanair-
lvmh/ [ 6]: https://www.valuewalk.com/brent-oil-price-edging-toward-85-amid-growing-energy-worries/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 13, 2021
End of Document
RIX Weekly Update
RIX Weekly Update
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 13, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 194 words
Body
This week Riga Airport connects passengers to 82 destinations
The Christmas time is coming and the number of exciting winter destinations from Riga Airport is growing. This 
week Riga Airport connects passengers to 82 attractive destinations, including most popular winter resorts, charter 
flights to Egypt and Europe's aviation hubs.
airBaltic launches new route to Kittila in Finland, as well as resume flights to Salzburg, Geneva and Verona, 
operated on Saturdays as of 18 December.
Wizz Air resume flights to Doncaster/Scheffield; Norwegian resume flights to Stockholm and Copenhagen.
Flights are also operated by Aeroflot, Finnair, LOT Polish Airlines, Lufthansa, Ryanair, Turkish Airlines and 
Uzbekistan Airways. Regular charter flights are operated by Smartlynx Airlines, GetJet Airlines and Freebird Airlines 
Europe.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 22, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 13, 2021 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 19
Length: 151 words
Body
Carnival 1289.4 81.80 1890.2 1073 - -2.14 753.1 CompassX 1524.5 13.00 1721.63 18.06 - -66.00 2615.7 Dalata 
Hotel 315.00 12.50 414.50 272.00 - -12.03 30.8 easyJet 525.60 -2.60 1095 6.81 - -1.73 4314.1 FirstGrp 101.60 
8.45 110.70 63.25 - 26.05 3095.8 Flutter Entertainment 11000 970.00 19680.8 9912 - -276.38 393.1 Fuller A 
660.00 -18.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.56 18.7 Go-Ahead 610.00 -84.50 1463 531.00 - -5.69 106.3 IntCon Htels Gp 
4642 98.00 5568 4389 - -4582.43 398.8 Intl Cons Air 137.38 5.68 222.10 1.55 - -2.40 25955.8 MandarO $ 2.26 
0.07 2.36 1.65 - -7.44 31.0 Marstons 69.30 2.25 105.50 59.35 - -1.05 2038.6 Natl Exp 235.40 11.00 413.50 206.70 
- -5.07 1319.5 PPHE Htl 1412 22.00 1800 1175 - -6.28 6.5 Restaurt 82.90 -0.90 140.00 52.56 - 8.72 2534.9 
Ryanair Holdings PLC 317.00 4.50 338.60 250.00 1.04 53.73 208.7 TUI 216.50 12.90 505.60 189.85 - -1.46 4329.7 
Whitbrd 2898 15.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.52 784.9
Load-Date: December 12, 2021
End of Document
Private Advisor Group LLC Has $630,000 Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Private Advisor Group LLC Has $630,000 Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
December 12, 2021 Sunday 10:12 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 888 words
Body
Dec 12, 2021( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Private Advisor Group LLC raised its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 125.8% during the third 
quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The firm 
owned 5,724 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 3,189 shares during the 
period. Private Advisor Group LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $630,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
Other large investors also recently made changes to their positions in the company. Baillie Gifford & Co. lifted its 
stake in Ryanair by 1.3% in the second quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,513,341 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $1,137,649,000 after buying an additional 140,012 shares during the 
period. Capital International Investors grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 3.1% during the second quarter. 
Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,067,172,000 after buying an additional 294,131 shares in the last quarter. FMR LLC grew its holdings in shares 
of Ryanair by 1.4% during the second quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $681,580,000 after buying an additional 87,015 shares in the last quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC grew its stake in Ryanair by 6.3% in the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now 
owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after purchasing an 
additional 296,366 shares in the last quarter. Finally, William Blair Investment Management LLC grew its stake in 
Ryanair by 14.3% in the second quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $243,862,000 after purchasing an additional 281,774 shares in the 
last quarter. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
RYAAY has been the subject of several research analyst reports. Peel Hunt upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating 
to a "buy" rating in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Barclays reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Credit Suisse Group reaffirmed an "outperform" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Finally, Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reaffirmed a 
"buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Five analysts have rated the stock with a 
hold rating and twelve have issued a buy rating to the stock. Based on data from MarketBeat, Ryanair currently has 
an average rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
Private Advisor Group LLC Has $630,000 Stake in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Shares of RYAAY stock[1] opened at $100.41 on Friday. The firm has a market capitalization of $22.67 billion, a 
P/E ratio of -28.53 and a beta of 1.58. Ryanair Holdings plc has a twelve month low of $94.68 and a twelve month 
high of $127.25. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. 
The stock's fifty day simple moving average is $110.48 and its 200 day simple moving average is $109.91.  
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: Current Ratio[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/what-is-current-ratio/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 12, 2021
End of Document
Adelphi Capital LLP Sells 43,496 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Adelphi Capital LLP Sells 43,496 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
December 11, 2021 Saturday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 648 words
Body
Ryanair Adelphi Capital LLP cut its holdings in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 3.8% during 
the third quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The fund 
owned 1,106,544 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 43,496 shares during the quarter. 
Ryanair comprises  35.5% of Adelphi Capital LLP's investment portfolio, making the stock its 2nd biggest position. 
Adelphi Capital LLP owned about 0.49% of Ryanair worth $121,786,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
A number of other hedge funds have also recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. Lazard Asset Management 
LLC raised its stake in  Ryanair by 6.3% during the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 
5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 
shares during the period.  Capital International Investors increased its stake in  Ryanair by 3.1% during the 2nd 
quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,067,172,000 after buying an additional 294,131 shares during the period.  William Blair Investment Management 
LLC increased its stake in  Ryanair by 14.3% during the 2nd quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC 
now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $243,862,000 after buying an additional 
281,774 shares during the period.  Baillie Gifford & Co. increased its stake in  Ryanair by 2.5% during the 3rd 
quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,186,170,000 after buying an additional 264,133 shares during the period.  Finally, Bank of America Corp DE 
increased its stake in  Ryanair by 17.8% during the 2nd quarter. Bank of America Corp DE now owns 1,194,585 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $129,266,000 after buying an additional 180,625 shares during 
the period. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors.  
RYAAY stock  opened at $100.41 on Friday. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a 
debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of $127.25. 
The company has a fifty day moving average price of $110.48 and a 200 day moving average price of $109.94.  
Several equities research analysts recently weighed in on the stock. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reaffirmed a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. UBS Group  reiterated a "neutral" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Peel Hunt upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Friday, September 17th. Barclays  reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Raymond James lowered their price target on shares of 
Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a report on Monday, November 
Adelphi Capital LLP Sells 43,496 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
29th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued  a buy rating to 
the company. According to data from MarketBeat, the company  has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus 
price target of $122.08. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: Conference Calls and Individual Investors 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: December 11, 2021
End of Document
Adelphi Capital LLP Sells 43,496 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Adelphi Capital LLP Sells 43,496 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
December 11, 2021 Saturday 5:16 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 890 words
Body
Dec 11, 2021( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Adelphi Capital LLP lessened its position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 3.8% during the third 
quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the SEC. The fund owned 1,106,544 shares of 
the transportation company's stock after selling 43,496 shares during the quarter. Ryanair makes up about 35.5% 
of Adelphi Capital LLP's portfolio, making the stock its 2nd biggest position. Adelphi Capital LLP's holdings in 
Ryanair were worth $121,786,000 at the end of the most recent reporting period.  
A number of other hedge funds also recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
grew its stake in Ryanair by 6.3% in the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares 
in the last quarter. Capital International Investors boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 3.1% during the 2nd 
quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,067,172,000 after acquiring an additional 294,131 shares during the period. William Blair Investment 
Management LLC boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 14.3% during the 2nd quarter. William Blair Investment 
Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $243,862,000 after 
acquiring an additional 281,774 shares during the period. Baillie Gifford & Co. boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair 
by 2.5% during the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $1,186,170,000 after acquiring an additional 264,133 shares during the period. Finally, Bank of America 
Corp DE boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 17.8% during the 2nd quarter. Bank of America Corp DE now 
owns 1,194,585 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $129,266,000 after acquiring an additional 
180,625 shares during the period. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 43.91% of the company's 
stock.  
NASDAQ RYAAY[1] opened at $100.41 on Friday. The business's 50-day moving average price is $110.48 and its 
two-hundred day moving average price is $109.94. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 
month high of $127.25. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 
0.96.  
Several analysts recently weighed in on RYAAY shares. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. UBS Group reissued a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reissued a "neutral" rating on 
Adelphi Capital LLP Sells 43,496 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Finally, Morgan Stanley reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with 
a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the stock. Based on data from MarketBeat, the stock currently 
has an average rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: Straddles[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/options-
trading-what-is-a-straddle/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 11, 2021
End of Document
Adelphi Capital LLP Sells 43,496 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Adelphi Capital LLP Sells 43,496 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
December 11, 2021 Saturday 3:08 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 897 words
Body
Dec 11, 2021( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Adelphi Capital LLP cut its holdings in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 3.8% during the third 
quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The fund owned 
1,106,544 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 43,496 shares during the quarter. Ryanair 
comprises 35.5% of Adelphi Capital LLP's investment portfolio, making the stock its 2nd biggest position. Adelphi 
Capital LLP owned about 0.49% of Ryanair worth $121,786,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
A number of other hedge funds have also recently modified their holdings of RYAAY. Lazard Asset Management 
LLC raised its stake in Ryanair by 6.3% during the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 
5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 
shares during the period. Capital International Investors increased its stake in Ryanair by 3.1% during the 2nd 
quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,067,172,000 after buying an additional 294,131 shares during the period. William Blair Investment Management 
LLC increased its stake in Ryanair by 14.3% during the 2nd quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC 
now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $243,862,000 after buying an additional 
281,774 shares during the period. Baillie Gifford & Co. increased its stake in Ryanair by 2.5% during the 3rd 
quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,186,170,000 after buying an additional 264,133 shares during the period. Finally, Bank of America Corp DE 
increased its stake in Ryanair by 17.8% during the 2nd quarter. Bank of America Corp DE now owns 1,194,585 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $129,266,000 after buying an additional 180,625 shares during 
the period. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors.  
RYAAY stock[1] opened at $100.41 on Friday. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a 
debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of $127.25. 
The company has a fifty day moving average price of $110.48 and a 200 day moving average price of $109.94.  
Several equities research analysts recently weighed in on the stock. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reaffirmed a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. UBS Group reiterated a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Peel Hunt upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" 
rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Friday, September 17th. Barclays reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Raymond James lowered their price target on shares of 
Adelphi Capital LLP Sells 43,496 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a report on Monday, November 
29th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued a buy rating to 
the company. According to data from MarketBeat, the company has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus 
price target of $122.08. 
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: Conference Calls and Individual Investors[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/earnings/conference-calls/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-
funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 11, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 11, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 155 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1289.4 -20.80 1890.2 1073 - -2.14 718.9 CompassX 1524.5 -23.00 1721.63 18.06 - -
66.00 2325.3 Dalata Hotel 315.00 -2.50 414.50 272.00 - -12.03 10.0 easyJet 525.60 -10.60 1095 6.81 - -1.73 
3884.7 FirstGrp 101.60 5.70 110.70 63.25 - 26.05 2835.6 Flutter Entertainment 11000 -95.00 19680.8 9912 - -
276.38 298.9 Fuller A 660.00 -40.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.56 18.6 Go-Ahead 610.00 10.00 1463 531.00 - -5.69 103.4 
IntCon Htels Gp 4642 -35.00 5568 4389 - -4582.43 352.6 Intl Cons Air 137.38 -0.64 222.10 1.55 - -2.40 23529.6 
MandarO $ 2.26 0.01 2.36 1.65 - -7.44 31.0 Marstons 69.30 -2.15 105.50 59.35 - -1.05 1999.5 Natl Exp 235.40 
3.60 413.50 206.70 - -5.07 1253.5 PPHE Htl 1412 -38.00 1800 1175 - -6.28 6.5 Restaurt 82.90 -3.60 140.00 52.56 
- 8.72 2506.3 Ryanair Holdings PLC 317.00 1.00 338.60 250.00 1.04 53.73 207.3 TUI 216.50 -9.00 505.60 189.85 - 
-1.46 3490.2 Whitbrd 2898 -39.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.52 746.9
Load-Date: December 10, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 11, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 25
Length: 155 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1289.4 -20.80 1890.2 1073 - -2.14 718.9 CompassX 1524.5 -23.00 1721.63 18.06 - -
66.00 2325.3 Dalata Hotel 315.00 -2.50 414.50 272.00 - -12.03 10.0 easyJet 525.60 -10.60 1095 6.81 - -1.73 
3884.7 FirstGrp 101.60 5.70 110.70 63.25 - 26.05 2835.6 Flutter Entertainment 11000 -95.00 19680.8 9912 - -
276.38 298.9 Fuller A 660.00 -40.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.56 18.6 Go-Ahead 610.00 10.00 1463 531.00 - -5.69 103.4 
IntCon Htels Gp 4642 -35.00 5568 4389 - -4582.43 352.6 Intl Cons Air 137.38 -0.64 222.10 1.55 - -2.40 23529.6 
MandarO $ 2.26 0.01 2.36 1.65 - -7.44 31.0 Marstons 69.30 -2.15 105.50 59.35 - -1.05 1999.5 Natl Exp 235.40 
3.60 413.50 206.70 - -5.07 1253.5 PPHE Htl 1412 -38.00 1800 1175 - -6.28 6.5 Restaurt 82.90 -3.60 140.00 52.56 
- 8.72 2506.3 Ryanair Holdings PLC 317.00 1.00 338.60 250.00 1.04 53.73 207.3 TUI 216.50 -9.00 505.60 189.85 - 
-1.46 3490.2 Whitbrd 2898 -39.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.52 746.9
Load-Date: December 10, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 11, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 155 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1289.4 -20.80 1890.2 1073 - -2.14 718.9 CompassX 1524.5 -23.00 1721.63 18.06 - -
66.00 2325.3 Dalata Hotel 315.00 -2.50 414.50 272.00 - -12.03 10.0 easyJet 525.60 -10.60 1095 6.81 - -1.73 
3884.7 FirstGrp 101.60 5.70 110.70 63.25 - 26.05 2835.6 Flutter Entertainment 11000 -95.00 19680.8 9912 - -
276.38 298.9 Fuller A 660.00 -40.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.56 18.6 Go-Ahead 610.00 10.00 1463 531.00 - -5.69 103.4 
IntCon Htels Gp 4642 -35.00 5568 4389 - -4582.43 352.6 Intl Cons Air 137.38 -0.64 222.10 1.55 - -2.40 23529.6 
MandarO $ 2.26 0.01 2.36 1.65 - -7.44 31.0 Marstons 69.30 -2.15 105.50 59.35 - -1.05 1999.5 Natl Exp 235.40 
3.60 413.50 206.70 - -5.07 1253.5 PPHE Htl 1412 -38.00 1800 1175 - -6.28 6.5 Restaurt 82.90 -3.60 140.00 52.56 
- 8.72 2506.3 Ryanair Holdings PLC 317.00 1.00 338.60 250.00 1.04 53.73 207.3 TUI 216.50 -9.00 505.60 189.85 - 
-1.46 3490.2 Whitbrd 2898 -39.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.52 746.9
Load-Date: December 10, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 11, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 155 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1289.4 -20.80 1890.2 1073 - -2.14 718.9 CompassX 1524.5 -23.00 1721.63 18.06 - -
66.00 2325.3 Dalata Hotel 315.00 -2.50 414.50 272.00 - -12.03 10.0 easyJet 525.60 -10.60 1095 6.81 - -1.73 
3884.7 FirstGrp 101.60 5.70 110.70 63.25 - 26.05 2835.6 Flutter Entertainment 11000 -95.00 19680.8 9912 - -
276.38 298.9 Fuller A 660.00 -40.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.56 18.6 Go-Ahead 610.00 10.00 1463 531.00 - -5.69 103.4 
IntCon Htels Gp 4642 -35.00 5568 4389 - -4582.43 352.6 Intl Cons Air 137.38 -0.64 222.10 1.55 - -2.40 23529.6 
MandarO $ 2.26 0.01 2.36 1.65 - -7.44 31.0 Marstons 69.30 -2.15 105.50 59.35 - -1.05 1999.5 Natl Exp 235.40 
3.60 413.50 206.70 - -5.07 1253.5 PPHE Htl 1412 -38.00 1800 1175 - -6.28 6.5 Restaurt 82.90 -3.60 140.00 52.56 
- 8.72 2506.3 Ryanair Holdings PLC 317.00 1.00 338.60 250.00 1.04 53.73 207.3 TUI 216.50 -9.00 505.60 189.85 - 
-1.46 3490.2 Whitbrd 2898 -39.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.52 746.9
Load-Date: December 10, 2021
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Friday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Friday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
December 10, 2021 Friday 11:19 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 211 words
Body
 American depositary receipts of European stocks were trading 0.24% higher at 1,128.46 on the S&P/BNY Mellon 
Europe Select ADR Index on Friday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by pharmaceutical company Sanofi (SNY) and furniture maker Natuzzi 
(NTZ), which rose 3.3% and 3.1% respectively. They were followed by optical bonding firm VIA optronics (VIAO), 
which was up 2.4%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by biotech firm BioNTech (BNTX) and hotel booking site trivago 
(TRVG), which fell 8.6% and 4.3% respectively. They were followed by semiconductor company Sequans 
Communications (SQNS) and internet browser company Opera Limited (OPRA), which dropped 3.8% and 2.4%.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by biopharmaceutical company Verona Pharma (VRNA) and biotech 
firm Autolus Therapeutics (AUTL), which rose 3.5% and 3% respectively. They were followed by tobacco company 
British American Tobacco (BTI) and airline operator Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY), which increased 2.4% and 1%.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by biopharmaceutical companies Mereo BioPharma Group (MREO) 
and NuCana (NCNA), which lost 4.5% and 1.9% respectively. They were followed by biopharmaceutical company 
Akari Therapeutics (AKTX), which was off 1.6%.
Load-Date: December 10, 2021
End of Document
Belarus touts retaliatory sanctions against EU, UK airlines
Belarus touts retaliatory sanctions against EU, UK airlines
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 10, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 379 words
Body
The Government of Belarus will impose retaliatory sanctions on airlines from the European Union and the United 
Kingdom in retaliation for sanctions imposed on Belavia (B2, Minsk National), the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) 
said in a statement.
"In response to the illegitimate restrictions on the Belarusian aviation industry, which are based on unfair 
competition, our country will take similar steps in relation to air carriers from the European Union and the United 
Kingdom," it said.
The Belarusian authorities did not specify the nature of their proposed sanctions, and they will likely remain moot in 
practice. European airlines already avoid overflying as well as operating to Belarus after the EU Aviation Safety 
Agency (EASA) recommended bypassing the country in May this year. The regulator's decision was in response to 
the forced diversion of a Ryanair B737-800 to Minsk National, to arrest a dissident opposition journalist and his 
partner who were onboard.
The recent sanctions on Belavia are linked to a migrant-smuggling racket allegedly orchestrated by the Minsk 
authorities. While the state-owned airline has not been accused of actively organising the transport of migrants from 
the Middle East to Minsk National and then onwards to borders with Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland, many flew 
onboard the flag carrier. In addition to being blacklisted from flying over and to the EU, the airline has also been 
forced to terminate all its lease agreements from EU entities.
The retaliatory measures open to Minsk are limited as no European carrier dry- or wet-leases any aircraft from any 
Belarussian entities.
The Belarussian MFA has also vowed to ramp up its ties with Russia and other countries in the Eurasian Economic 
Union (Armenia, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan). Belavia said earlier that it would also consider leasing or buying 
aircraft from non-Western manufacturers and lessors in response to the sanctions.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Belarus touts retaliatory sanctions against EU, UK airlines
Load-Date: December 14, 2021
End of Document
Leeds Bradford Airport commits to carbon neutrality by 2030
Leeds Bradford Airport commits to carbon neutrality by 2030
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
December 10, 2021 Friday 12:07 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: AUTOMOTIVE, TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Length: 271 words
Highlight: UK's Leeds Bradford Airport (LBA) has set a 2030 target for reaching carbon neutrality and revealed a 
roadmap to attain this objective.
Body
As part of this initiative, the airport intends to decarbonise terminal operations and convert vehicles used at the 
airport to low or zero-emission versions. Leeds Bradford Airport CEO Vincent Hodder said: "This net-zero 
commitment is one of the most ambitious made by a UK airport. 
"Of course, emissions from aircraft are a concern across the aviation industry and we do not deny that or ignore it, 
but we are clear in our role to provide appropriate infrastructure and incentives to support the wider decarbonisation 
efforts of our partners and supply chain, as well as advocating for technological advances." LBA stated that it has 
already achieved a 48% carbon reduction since 2015. Hooder explained that LBA is emphasising emissions that it 
is 'directly responsible for and is fully in control of.' The airport is also willing to support on-site partners in lowering 
their emission levels. Airlines such as KLM, Ryanair and Jet2, which use LBA, have already made their own 
commitments to reduce carbon footprint. LBA is also reportedly planning to introduce electric airport shuttle busses 
and sign renewable heating contracts and deploy efficient air-conditioning systems. Group for Action on Leeds 
Bradford Airport (GALBA), which was formed to stop the proposed expansion of LBA, has welcomed the move. In 
another UK development, Gatwick Airport (LGW) partnered with Gridserve, a sustainable energy firm, to build an 
electric charging forecourt, which is said to be the net-zero equivalent of a petrol station. Once completed, the new 
Electric Forecourt will be used by passengers, employees, local residents and businesses.
Load-Date: December 26, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 10, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 155 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1310.2 -29.80 1890.2 1073 - -2.17 1178.9 CompassX 1547.5 -16.50 1721.63 18.06 - -
66.99 2889.0 Dalata Hotel 317.50 2.50 414.50 272.00 - -12.13 0.6 easyJet 536.20 -14.00 1095 6.81 - -1.77 4716.0 
FirstGrp 95.90 -5.80 110.70 63.25 - 24.59 3226.1 Flutter Entertainment 11095 -150.00 19680.8 9912 - -278.77 
280.4 Fuller A 700.00 2.00 977.73 580.00 - -8.02 6.8 Go-Ahead 600.00 -105.00 1463 531.00 - -5.60 623.4 IntCon 
Htels Gp 4677 -77.00 5568 4389 - -4616.98 393.7 Intl Cons Air 138.02 -4.74 222.10 1.55 - -2.41 15631.9 MandarO 
$ 2.25 -0.02 2.36 1.65 - -7.42 310.5 Marstons 71.45 -1.20 105.50 59.35 - -1.09 1323.7 Natl Exp 231.80 -2.80 
413.50 206.70 - -5.00 1139.1 PPHE Htl 1450 -20.00 1800 1175 - -6.44 0.3 Restaurt 86.50 -4.40 140.00 52.56 - 
9.10 4861.5 Ryanair Holdings PLC 316.00 -2.50 338.60 250.00 1.04 53.56 739.8 TUI 225.50 4.20 505.60 189.85 - -
1.52 4262.4 Whitbrd 2937 -21.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.84 350.9
Load-Date: December 9, 2021
End of Document
Poland : Belarusian KGB forced landing from air-traffic control tower
Poland: Belarusian KGB forced landing from air-traffic control tower
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
December 9, 2021 Thursday 7:40 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 221 words
Dateline: Warsaw (dpa) - 
Body
An officer of the Belarusian KGB was in the air-traffic control tower of Minsk Airport when a Ryanair flight with 
dissident blogger Roman Protasevich on board was diverted earlier this year, the Polish government said on 
Thursday.
"He gave instructions to the staff member who had the contact with the pilot," a statement from Poland's ABW 
secret service and the attorney general said.
Investigators also established that there was no bomb threat for the flight, contrary to the warning given to the pilot 
by air-traffic control. The threat was communicated before an email purporting that explosives were on board had 
even been sent, according to the statement.
The findings are based on interviews with passengers and airline representatives, as well as examinations of the 
aircraft and analysis of recorded conversations.
The Ryanair plane is registered in Poland so Warsaw initiated investigations.
On May 23, Belarusian authorities forced a Ryanair passenger plane on its way from Athens to Vilnius to land in 
Minsk, claiming that a bomb threat had been received.
Protasevich, co-founder of the opposition Telegram channel Nexta, and his girlfriend Sofia Sapega were on the 
flight. Both were arrested after landing.
The European Union, Britain and the United States imposed renewed sanctions against Belarus following the 
incident.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Rachel More, <international@dpa.com;
Poland : Belarusian KGB forced landing from air-traffic control tower
Load-Date: December 9, 2021
End of Document
D.B. Root & Company LLC Has $323,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
D.B. Root & Company LLC Has $323,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Watchlist News
December 9, 2021 Thursday 1:35 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 973 words
Body
Dec 09, 2021( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 D.B. Root & Company LLC trimmed its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 16.4% in the 
third quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC). The institutional investor owned 2,938 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 576 shares 
during the quarter. D.B. Root & Company LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $323,000 at the end of the most 
recent reporting period.  
 A number of other hedge funds also recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. Personal CFO Solutions 
LLC increased its position in Ryanair by 10.8% during the 2nd quarter. Personal CFO Solutions LLC now owns 
2,159 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $234,000 after purchasing an additional 210 shares in the 
last quarter. Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. increased its position in Ryanair by 12.4% in the 2nd quarter. 
Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. now owns 241,510 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$26,134,000 after acquiring an additional 26,563 shares during the period. Rothschild & Co Wealth Management 
UK Ltd increased its position in Ryanair by 2.1% in the 2nd quarter. Rothschild & Co Wealth Management UK Ltd 
now owns 993,218 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $107,476,000 after acquiring an 
additional 20,283 shares during the period. Baillie Gifford & Co. increased its position in Ryanair by 1.3% in the 2nd 
quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,513,341 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$1,137,649,000 after acquiring an additional 140,012 shares during the period. Finally, Redwood Investments LLC 
boosted its stake in shares of Ryanair by 72.3% in the 2nd quarter. Redwood Investments LLC now owns 110,322 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $11,938,000 after purchasing an additional 46,279 shares 
during the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
NASDAQ RYAAY[1] opened at $101.34 on Thursday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-
week high of $127.25. The company has a 50-day simple moving average of $111.01 and a 200 day simple moving 
average of $110.10. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. 
The company has a market capitalization of $22.88 billion, a PE ratio of -28.79 and a beta of 1.58.  
D.B. Root & Company LLC Has $323,000 Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
 A number of equities research analysts have recently commented on RYAAY shares. Morgan Stanley reaffirmed 
an 'overweight' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Credit Suisse Group 
reaffirmed an 'outperform' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Deutsche 
Bank Aktiengesellschaft reaffirmed a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 
17th. Sanford C. Bernstein lowered shares of Ryanair from an 'outperform' rating to a 'market perform' rating in a 
research note on Monday, November 8th. Finally, Barclays reaffirmed an 'overweight' rating on shares of Ryanair in 
a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating 
and twelve have issued a buy rating to the company. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the company 
presently has a consensus rating of 'Buy' and an average target price of $122.08. 
Ryanair Company Profile 
 Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
 Recommended Story: Mutual funds are not immune from market timing 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-are-the-benefits-of-market-timing/ 
 Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[2] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Receive News & Ratings for Ryanair Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[3]. 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-
ryaay/ [ 3]: https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY&c=Ryanair 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 9, 2021
End of Document
Dangerous reason why passengers must tell cabin crew if they lose their phone
Dangerous reason why passengers must tell cabin crew if they lose their 
phone
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 09, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 526 words
Body
The revamped A320 cabin will have seats with two 32 inches between rows, a 2-inch decrease.
Airline pilot Patrick Smith told Sun Online Travel that phones in checked-in luggage pose an even bigger problem to 
flight safety. There are a number of ways to make yourself the most unpopular person on a flight - showing up late 
for boarding, picking your toenails and getting drunk on the free booze should all do it.
But starting a fire, even unintentionally, has got to be the clincher. It is far easier than you think to get a blaze going 
on a plane though - all a passenger has to do is lose their phone down the side of a seat.
On a Qantas flight to Melbourne in 2018, a man did just that, dropping his mobile and then trying to fish it out. While 
he was trying to retrieve it the handset started smoldering, with the situation getting so bad that the pilot considered 
diverting the aircraft to Sydney and crew having to use fire extinguishers to put the blaze out.
Passengers are now warned to contact a flight attendant every time they lose a phone down the side of a plane 
seat, as crushing the powerful lithium batteries can easily spark a fire or explosion.
The incident follows a previous warning from Australia's Civil Aviation Safety Authority, who had released a 
statement that read: "Smartphones can fall into aircraft seat mechanisms and be crushed when the seat is moved.
"This can result in damage to the phone's lithium battery which can cause overheating and fire.
"Passengers must remember never to move their seat if a phone goes missing while in-flight and to always ask the 
aircraft cabin crew for assistance.
"If a phone is damaged cabin crew should be alerted immediately."
The incident is just one of a number of phone fires that have happened on planes in recent years. In August of this 
year, a mobile phone caught fire in the cabin of an Alaska Airlines flight, leading to the plane being evacuated.
In July 2018, Ryanair passengers were filmed escaping on an emergency chute after mobile phone battery burst 
into flames minutes before take-off.
Dangerous reason why passengers must tell cabin crew if they lose their phone
Holidaymakers could be seen falling over each other in a bid to get away from the aircraft as quickly as they could 
after the inflatable slide was activated. Then in February 2018, a passenger's hand luggage was filmed in flames on 
China Southern flight as a flight attendant was forced to fight the fire.
Airline pilot Patrick Smith told Sun Online Travel that phones in checked-in luggage pose an even bigger problem to 
flight safety.
He said: "I would be concerned with fires in the lower hold.
"If one was to occur then crew people on board won't have an understanding of what is happening or how fast it's 
spreading.
"Holds are equipped with fire suppressant systems but these systems aren't always effective against those types of 
fires." nypost.com
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 14, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Sold by D.B. Root & Company LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Sold by D.B. Root & 
Company LLC
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
December 9, 2021 Thursday 1:11 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 913 words
Body
Dec 09, 2021( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 D.B. Root & Company LLC cut its position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 16.4% in the third 
quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The 
firm owned 2,938 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 576 shares during the quarter. D.B. 
Root & Company LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $323,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
Several other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also recently made changes to their positions in 
RYAAY. Lazard Asset Management LLC lifted its position in Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after 
acquiring an additional 296,366 shares during the period. Capital International Investors raised its stake in shares of 
Ryanair by 3.1% during the 2nd quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $1,067,172,000 after buying an additional 294,131 shares in the last quarter. 
William Blair Investment Management LLC raised its stake in shares of Ryanair by 14.3% during the 2nd quarter. 
William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$243,862,000 after buying an additional 281,774 shares in the last quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. raised its stake in 
shares of Ryanair by 2.5% during the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $1,186,170,000 after buying an additional 264,133 shares in the last quarter. 
Finally, Bank of America Corp DE raised its stake in shares of Ryanair by 17.8% during the 2nd quarter. Bank of 
America Corp DE now owns 1,194,585 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $129,266,000 after 
buying an additional 180,625 shares in the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other 
institutional investors.  
NASDAQ RYAAY[1] opened at $101.34 on Thursday. The business's fifty day moving average is $111.01 and its 
two-hundred day moving average is $110.10. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 
and a current ratio of 1.34. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $94.68 and a 1 year high of $127.25. The stock 
has a market capitalization of $22.88 billion, a P/E ratio of -28.79 and a beta of 1.58.  
RYAAY has been the subject of several research analyst reports. Morgan Stanley reaffirmed an "overweight" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Credit Suisse Group reaffirmed an 
"outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Raymond James dropped 
their price objective on Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Sold by D.B. Root & Company LLC
research note on Monday, November 29th. Peel Hunt raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a 
research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reissued a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Five equities research analysts have rated the 
stock with a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the company. Based on data from MarketBeat, 
Ryanair has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.08. 
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: What is the return on assets (ROA) ratio?[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/what-is-return-on-assets/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 9, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 9, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 153 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1340 51.00 1890.2 1073 - -2.22 1986.5 CompassX 1564 5.50 1721.63 18.06 - -67.71 
3062.5 Dalata Hotel 315.00 - 414.50 272.00 - -12.03 199.5 easyJet 550.20 -4.00 1095 6.81 - -1.81 6130.7 FirstGrp 
101.70 -4.00 110.70 63.25 - 26.08 3311.4 Flutter Entertainment 11245 205.00 19680.8 9912 - -282.54 428.8 Fuller 
A 698.00 14.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.99 6.2 Go-Ahead 705.00 -27.50 1463 656.00 - -6.58 79.4 IntCon Htels Gp 4754 
52.00 5568 4389 - -4692.99 561.2 Intl Cons Air 142.76 0.66 222.10 1.55 - -1.48 42028.5 MandarO $ 2.27 0.02 2.36 
1.65 - -7.48 140.6 Marstons 72.65 2.60 105.50 59.35 - -1.10 2916.2 Natl Exp 234.60 -6.00 413.50 206.70 - -5.06 
1914.1 PPHE Htl 1470 78.00 1800 1175 - -6.53 7.1 Restaurt 90.90 -2.20 140.00 52.56 - 9.56 3009.1 Ryanair 
Holdings PLC 318.50 -3.50 338.60 250.00 1.04 53.98 220.7 TUI 221.30 3.80 505.60 189.85 - -1.50 10241.4 
Whitbrd 2958 2.00 3949.01 36.28 - -24.01 725.6
Load-Date: December 8, 2021
End of Document
FIVE at FIVE: Big day for small-caps, TUI and travel stocks slapped, MGC talks growth (and, the FTSE)
FIVE at FIVE: Big day for small-caps, TUI and travel stocks slapped, MGC 
talks growth (and, the FTSE)
 
Proactive Investors (UK)
December 8, 2021 Wednesday 05:00 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Proactive UK Ltd All Rights Reserved
Length: 226 words
Byline: Jamie Ashcroft
Body
1 - Big day for small-cap funding
Alaska oil explorerPantheon Resources had the stand-out small-cap funding deal, raising US$96mln through a mix 
of equity and convertible debt, though elsewhere cloud-based video editorBlackbird banked £8mln to develop and 
grow its platform into new markets, and Cornish Lithium confirmed a £9mln tranche to advance its portfolio.
2 - TUI and travel stocks slapped lower
TUI warned fears over the omicron variant of Coronavirus (COVID-19) could impact its winter holiday programme, 
although it predicted bookings for next summer will return to near pre-pandemic levels.
The weak outlook, storms and Omicron also weighed on airlines IAG, Ryanair, easyJet and Wizz
Read more
3 - FTSE treads water after rebound
At the close, the UK blue-chip index was 2.55 points, or 0.01%  lower at 7,337.35, below the day's peak of 7,378.92 
but above the session low of 7,333.56.
Read more
FIVE at FIVE: Big day for small-caps, TUI and travel stocks slapped, MGC talks growth (and, the FTSE)
4 - Deutsche surprised by BATs
Deutsche Bank analysts admitted surprise at British American Tobacco positive results, saying the cash conversion 
figure of 'well in excess of 90%' caught the eye of the research team.
Read more
5 - MGC talks growth
MGC Pharmaceuticals Roby Zomer joins us in the studio to give Proactive's Katie Pilbeam insights into the 
cannabis and health products group's growth plans, following its recent £5.5mln funding.
See the interview here
Load-Date: December 8, 2021
End of Document
British Airways owner IAG sees shares fall again as investors avoid airline and travel stocks
British Airways owner IAG sees shares fall again as investors avoid airline 
and travel stocks
 
Proactive Investors (UK)
December 8, 2021 Wednesday 12:30 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Proactive UK Ltd All Rights Reserved
Length: 371 words
Byline: Jamie Ashcroft
Body
As British Airways owner International Consolidated Airlines Group (LSE:IAG) fell more than 4% in Wednesday's 
early deal stockbroker Charles Stanley (LSE:CAY) says flights being grounded because of Storm Barra are the 
least of worries for the aviation industry.
Will Walker-Arnott, Charles Stanley senior investment manager, in a note has highlighted that the travel industry 
was already struggling, and investors are avoiding the sector's shares.
The latest fears for travel come as holiday group TUI AG (LSE:TUI) warned fears over the omicron variant could 
impact its winter holiday programme, although it predicted bookings for next summer will return to near pre-
pandemic levels as vaccination rates continue to rise.
IAG shares are the biggest faller in the cohort over the past month, losing some 21%, as the world reacted to the 
omicron variant of COVID-19 and various travel bans were renewed - with IAG's conglomerate of so-called 'flag-
carrier' brands (British Airways, Iberia, and Aer Lingus) particularly sensitive to disruption of long haul and 
transcontinental routes.
Short-haulers are far from immune either.
easyJet plc (LSE:EZJ) (down 3.18% today) at 536.6p, has lost around 17.5% over the past month whilst Ryanair 
Holdings PLC (LSE:RYA) (down 3.2% today at (EURO)15.21) is off some 15% and Eastern Europe focussed Wizz 
Air Holdings (AIM:WIZZ) (down 2.96% today at 4,324p) is around 11% lower over the same period.
British Airways owner IAG sees shares fall again as investors avoid airline and travel stocks
"As COVID restrictions return, it feels like one step forward and two steps back for travel companies," Walker-Arnott 
said.
"For some aviation companies, capacity is still only at about 65% of what they provided pre-COVID and cash burn 
will once again be an issue. EasyJet recently raised £1.2bn in financial markets through a discounted rights issue 
and it seems increasingly likely that aviation companies will need to come back to the City with a begging bowl.
"In short, the aviation sector remains on life support and as a consequence is a volatile sector to invest - good 
timing is paramount."
Shunning the airline sector, the senior investment manager said Charles Stanley prefers companies with "more 
consistent earnings profiles" found in the technology, healthcare and renewable energy sectors.
Load-Date: December 8, 2021
End of Document
Bratislava Airport: New Routes to Zagreb and Sofia in S22 with Ryanair
Bratislava Airport: New Routes to Zagreb and Sofia in S22 with Ryanair
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 08, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 257 words
Body
Ryanair announced this week two new routes from Bratislava, to Zagreb (Croatia) and Sofia (Bulgaria). Ryanair ´s 
S22 network from Bratislava grows to 26 routes, including 7 new ones.
Starting on March 27th and March 29th, 2022 respectively, first Ryanair flights to Zagreb and Sofia will depart from 
Bratislava M. R. Stefanik Airport. The new routes will be operated by Bratislava based carrier Ryanair with two 
frequencies for Zagreb (Wednesdays, Sundays) and three frequencies for Sofia (Tuesdays, Thursdays and 
Saturdays).
Zagreb and Sofia join the array of destinations offered by Ryanair from Bratislava, together with the latest additions 
of Copenhagen, Lanzarote and Lviv launching this W21. S22 also marks the return of Dalaman (Turkey) and 
Trapani (Italy) for Bratislava, both routes historically operated in past seasons (Dalaman in S18 and S19 and 
Trapani S14-S18).
Dusan Keketi, CEO of Bratislava Airport: "Number of direct routes offered by Ryanair in the upcoming summer 
season increases to 26, thereof 7 will be new ones. We are happy about the latest additions of Zagreb and Sofia, 
which are the capital cities of the most popular and most visited vacation destinations by Slovaks".
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 14, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair returns to Nuremberg as base with 13 new destinations
Ryanair returns to Nuremberg as base with 13 new destinations
dpa international (Englischer Dienst)
December 8, 2021 Wednesday 7:45 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 Deutsche Presse-Agentur All Rights Reserved
Length: 233 words
Dateline: Nuremberg, Germany (dpa) - 
Body
Irish low-cost airline Ryanair is returning to Nuremberg airport with a base.
Two aircraft are to be stationed in the southern German city in the summer of 2022 and 13 new destinations will be 
served, mainly in southern, south-eastern and eastern Europe, the airline announced in Nuremberg on Wednesday.
"We never wanted to leave in the first place and now we're back," Ryanair chief executive Eddie Wilson said.
Ryanair had closed its base in Nuremberg in 2019. At the time, the airline had justified its withdrawal, among other 
things, with the flight ban at the time following crashes of the Boeing 737-800 aircraft that were based there.
Since then, there have been fewer Ryanair flights from Nuremberg and no aircraft stationed there.
In total, Ryanair will be able to reach 27 destinations with 85 flights per week from March 2022, including the 
Estonian capital Tallinn, the Bulgarian capital Sofia, Chania on Crete, Venice in Italy and Faro in Portugal.
Nuremberg's Lord Mayor Marcus Koenig spoke of a balanced mix of European city connections, tourist destinations 
around the Mediterranean and opportunities for family visits in Central and Eastern Europe.
According to Ryanair, it plans to invest 200 million dollars in the new base.
More than 60 direct jobs will be created, and around 970 jobs are expected to be created in the region as a result of 
the increased number of flights in the area.
Editorial contactsEditing by: Bill Heaney, <international@dpa.com;
Ryanair returns to Nuremberg as base with 13 new destinations
Load-Date: December 8, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 8, 2021 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 153 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1289 2.20 1890.2 1073 - -2.13 1443.8 CompassX 1558.5 12.50 1721.63 18.06 - -67.47 
2470.9 Dalata Hotel 315.00 -10.00 414.50 272.00 - -12.03 0.6 easyJet 554.20 -1.80 1095 6.81 - -1.82 4014.4 
FirstGrp 105.70 0.20 110.70 63.25 - 27.10 9421.0 Flutter Entertainment 11040 415.00 19680.8 9912 - -277.39 
468.2 Fuller A 684.00 -8.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.83 29.5 Go-Ahead 732.50 25.50 1463 656.00 - -6.83 43.5 IntCon 
Htels Gp 4702 1.00 5568 4389 - -4641.66 558.2 Intl Cons Air 142.10 -0.24 222.10 1.55 - -1.47 29062.8 MandarO $ 
2.25 0.05 2.36 1.65 - -7.41 19.7 Marstons 70.05 -1.70 105.50 59.35 - -1.06 1715.9 Natl Exp 240.60 7.20 413.50 
206.70 - -5.19 955.3 PPHE Htl 1392 10.00 1800 1175 - -6.19 21.7 Restaurt 93.10 2.30 140.00 52.56 - 9.79 2305.8 
Ryanair Holdings PLC 322.00 8.50 338.60 250.00 1.02 54.58 417.1 TUI 217.50 5.00 505.60 189.85 - -1.47 3712.9 
Whitbrd 2956 -20.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.99 437.2
Load-Date: December 7, 2021
End of Document
Airline Stock Roundup: AAL 's New CEO, UAL 's Environmentally-Friendly Move & More
Airline Stock Roundup: AAL's New CEO, UAL's Environmentally-Friendly 
Move & More
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
December 8, 2021 Wednesday 10:05 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1619 words
Byline: Maharathi Basu
Body
Dec 08, 2021( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 In the past week, United Airlines UAL[1] operated the first ever commercial flight using 100% sustainable aviation 
fuel (SAF) in one of its two engines. American Airlines AAL[2] grabbed headlines as its CEO Doug Parker since 
2013 announced his decision to step down on Mar 31, 2022. Allegiant Travel Company's ALGT[3] partnership with 
Mexican ultra-low-cost carrier Viva Aerobus also invited attention in the past week. 
Ryanair Holdings RYAAY[4] and Gol Linhas GOL[5] posted upbeat traffic statistics for November as air-travel 
demand continues to improve, courtesy of increased vaccinations. Ryanair is looking to expand its network, 
courtesy of increased demand despite the omicron scare. In line with this objective, RYAAY announced plans to 
open a new base in Madeira, Portugal during summer 2022. The story was covered in detail in the previous week's 
roundup[6]. Recap of the Latest Top Stories 1. At American Airlines, Parker will be replaced as CEO by its current 
president Robert Isom. Isom has been serving as the carrier's president since 2016. He is hugely experienced in 
the airline industry, reflected in his leadership expertise across various fields like finance, operations, planning, 
marketing, sales, alliances, pricing and revenue management. With air-travel demand on the mend from the 
pandemic-led pits witnessed last year, American Airlines will be hoping that a veteran like Isom will be able to 
leverage the upbeat scenario and guide AAL in its quest for achieving more growth[7]. 
American Airlines currently carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can seethe complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank 
(Strong Buy) stocks here[8]. 
2. In line with its efforts to decarbonize the airline industry in the United States, United Airlines flew an aircraft full of 
passengers using only SAF in one of its two engines. The fuel was supplied by World Energy, North America's only 
commercial biofuel producer. The plane took off from Chicago's O'Hare International Airport and landed at 
Washington, D.C.'s Reagan National Airport on Dec 1. For future flights, UAL agreed to buy 1.5 billion gallons of 
SAF from Alder Fuels, which is enough to fly 57 million passengers. UAL can also buy up to 900 million gallons of 
additional SAF from Fulcrum BioEnergy[9]. 
3 By virtue of its agreement with Viva Aerobus, Allegiant intends to offer cheaper non-stop leisure travel between 
the United States and Mexico from the first quarter of 2023, post regulatory approval. The alliance is not only the 
first such venture for Allegiant and Viva Aerobus, but is also the first-of-its-kind in the airline industry between two 
ultra-low-cost carriers. The carriers submitted a joint application to the US Department of Transportation requesting 
Airline Stock Roundup: AAL 's New CEO, UAL 's Environmentally-Friendly Move & More
approval and antitrust immunity for the alliance. Since Allegiant does not currently serve Mexico, through this 
alliance, its primary focus will be to broaden travel offerings to tourist-favorite Mexican destinations like Cancun, Los 
Cabos and Puerto Vallarta[10]. 
4. With air-travel demand improving, courtesy of increased vaccination, November traffic surged more than 100% 
year over year at Ryanair to 10.2 million. Load factor (percentage of seats filled with passengers) in November 
2021 was 86% compared with 62% in November 2020. RYAAY operated more than 62,300 flights last month[11]. 
5. At Gol Linhas, November traffic and capacity increased 17.1% and 20.4%, respectively, year over year. Since 
traffic growth was less than capacity expansion, load factor deteriorated 2.3 percentage points to 82.1% last month. 
With steady improvement in travel demand in Brazil, traffic climbed 9.4% year over year in the first 11 months of 
2021[12]. Performance The following table shows the price movement of the major airline players over the past 
week and during the last six months. 
Image Source: Zacks Investment Research 
The table above shows that most airline stocks have traded in the green over the past week, causing the NYSE 
ARCA Airline Index to increase 10.1% to $82.26. This upside was mainly owing to the receding fears pertaining to 
the omicron variant of the coronavirus. Per early reports, the variant is likely to cause only mild illness. Over the 
past six months, the NYSE ARCA Airline Index has depreciated 22.2%. What's Next in the Airline Space? 
November traffic reports by some carriers are expected in the coming days. 
 Infrastructure Stock Boom to Sweep America 
 A massive push to rebuild the crumbling U.S. infrastructure will soon be underway. It's bipartisan, urgent, and 
inevitable. Trillions will be spent. Fortunes will be made. 
 The only question is 'Will you get into the right stocks early when their growth potential is greatest?' 
 Zacks has released a Special Report to help you do just that, and today it's free. Discover 7 special companies that 
look to gain the most from construction and repair to roads, bridges, and buildings, plus cargo hauling and energy 
transformation on an almost unimaginable scale. Download FREE: How to Profit from Trillions on Spending for 
Infrastructure  > >[13] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[14] Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[15] 
United Airlines Holdings Inc (UAL): Free Stock Analysis Report[16] Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes S.A. (GOL): Free 
Stock Analysis Report[17] American Airlines Group Inc. (AAL): Free Stock Analysis Report[18] Allegiant Travel 
Company (ALGT): Free Stock Analysis Report[19] To read this article on Zacks.com click here.[20] Zacks 
Investment Research[21] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/UAL 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/AAL 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/ALGT 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/GOL [ 6]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1834100/airline-stock-roundup-
omicron-related-updates-grab-headlines-ryaay-in-focus [ 7]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1836520/american-
airlines-aal-long-serving-ceo-to-retire-next-year?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID02-txt-1836520 [ 8]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/buy-list/?ADID=zp_1link&ICID=zpi%20_1link 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1835353/united-ual-operates-flight-using-100-sustainable-fuel?art_rec=quote-
stock_overview-zacks_news-ID04-txt-1835353 [ 10]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1834874/allegiant-algt-to-
commence-united-states-mexico-service?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID01-txt-1834874 
[ 
11]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1836006/ryanair-ryaay-posts-encouraging-november-traffic-
statistics?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID01-txt-1836006 
[ 
12]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1836378/gol-linhas-gol-posts-upbeat-november-traffic-statistics?art_rec=quote-
stock_overview-zacks_news-ID01-txt-1836378 
[ 
13]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/3b9f?add=1728&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_INFRASTRUCTUREREPORT_ANALYSTBLOG_213_IND_12082021&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-
analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1837049 
[ 
14]: 
Airline Stock Roundup: AAL 's New CEO, UAL 's Environmentally-Friendly Move & More
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1837049 
[ 
15]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1837049 [ 
16]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=UAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1837049 
[ 
17]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=GOL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1837049 
[ 
18]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=AAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1837049 
[ 
19]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=ALGT&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1837049 
[ 
20]: http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1837049/airline-stock-roundup-aal-s-new-ceo-ual-s-environmentally-friendly-
move-more?cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1837049 [ 21]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 8, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair expands with another European destination from Stockholm Arlanda - adds new route to Croatia for 
summer 2022
Ryanair expands with another European destination from Stockholm 
Arlanda - adds new route to Croatia for summer 2022
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 07, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 417 words
Body
6th December update:
Ryanair continues to strengthen its presence in the Swedish market and launches another new European route 
from Stockholm Arlanda Airport ahead of the summer season. The connection to Rijeka in Croatia will be a new 
addition to Arlanda's destination offering, and the 36th new direct route that Ryanair launches from the new base at 
Arlanda.
Ryanair continues its expansion in Sweden and at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. At the end of October, Ryanair 
opened a base where they opened 23 new routes during the autumn. In connection with the summer program 2022, 
Ryanair plans to launch another 12 routes. They are now adding another European route to Rijeka, Croatia's third 
largest city. Croatia is a popular destination from Sweden. The route to Rijeka is new to the airport and 
complements Arlanda's other destination offerings. In total, Ryanair has now launched 36 European routes, of 
which five are domestic.
Beginning March 27, 2022, Ryanair will fly the route Stockholm Arlanda Airport (ARN) - Rijeka International Airport 
(RJK) non-stop twice weekly on Thursdays and Sundays. Tickets are now on sale. For more information about 
current traffic at Stockholm Arlanda Airport: swedavia.com/arlanda.
Swedavia has carried out ambitious sustainability work for many years. All ten of its airports achieved the goal of 
zero fossil carbon dioxide emissions from their own operations by year-end 2020. Swedavia also works actively to 
promote the switch to biofuel and has the goal that five per cent of all fuel used for refuelling at Swedish airports 
shall be fossil-free by 2025. Swedavia's climate transition work and leading work to operate climate-smart airports 
has been honoured internationally, and in 2021 the aviation industry trade organisation Airports Council 
International (ACI) named Stockholm Arlanda Airport Eco-Innovation Airport of the Year.
Swedavia complies with the authorities' advice and recommendations on Covid-19. In addition, we comply with 
international aviation industry regulations. For information about the measures Swedavia has introduced for safe 
travel, see for example: swedavia.com/arlanda/before-your-journey
Ryanair expands with another European destination from Stockholm Arlanda - adds new route to Croatia for 
summer 2022
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 14, 2021
End of Document
Airline stocks jump as Omicron shrugged off
Airline stocks jump as Omicron shrugged off
City A.M.
December 7, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 355 words
Byline: ILARIA GRASSO MACOLA
Body
THE SHARES of several airlines - including British Airways' owner IAG, Easyjet and Ryanair - jumped yesterday as 
a result of carriers shrugging off concerns about the latest Covid variant, Omicron. Evidence showing the milder 
effect of Omicron, which has not yet caused any deaths, has led to IAG going up to 142.34p from a bottom of 
127.66p touched last Tuesday.
Since 30 November, Ryanair's stocks have jumped 9.56 per cent, while Easyjet registered an 11.44 per cent hike.
Despite last week's re-introduction of mandatory PCR tests for those travelling into the country, carriers remained 
positive.
Speaking on Thursday at London's World Aviation Festival, Ryanair DAC's chief executive Eddie Wilson maintained 
that the airline's main focus was summer 2022, City A.M. reported.
"We were hoping that demand curve would really get going in January once we got through Christmas but then that 
had been sort of T-bond by the travel restrictions but we are still optimistic about next summer, we can see it in 
terms of pent-up demand," he said.
Wilson's words were echoed by other industry key players. After seeing encouraging signs for next summer, 
Easyjet's chief executive Johan Lundgren decided to adopt a more aggressive business strategy, buying slots at 
main hubs such as London Gatwick.
Airlines' confidence did not waiver even after the UK Government decided to re-introduce mandatory pre-departure 
tests for all those travelling to England from this morning at 4am.
Airline stocks jump as Omicron shrugged off
Calling the measures a "hammer blow" to "an already devastated industry," leading stakeholders slammed the 
restrictions.
"Public safety is a priority, but businesses will fail, travellers will be stranded and livelihoods devastated by the lack 
of coherent plans from the government," said Clive Wratten, chief executive of the Business Travel Association 
(BTA).
According to tour operator trade association ABTA, the latest travel restrictions could push some smaller companies 
over the edge, forcing them to close for good. "We can't go on like this with requirements changing but nothing to 
support those businesses worst affected," said ABTA's boss Mark Tanzer.
Load-Date: December 7, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 7, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 153 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1286.8 79.20 1890.2 1073 - -2.13 2089.9 CompassX 1546 34.50 1721.63 18.06 - -66.93 
2371.6 Dalata Hotel 325.00 22.50 414.50 272.00 - -12.41 37.3 easyJet 556.00 27.80 1095 6.81 - -1.83 6123.0 
FirstGrp 105.50 12.35 107.10 63.25 - 27.05 12574.7 Flutter Entertainment 10625 595.00 19680.8 9912 - -266.96 
486.6 Fuller A 692.00 14.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.93 45.4 Go-Ahead 707.00 12.50 1463 656.00 - -6.60 47.6 IntCon 
Htels Gp 4701 157.00 5568 4389 - -4640.67 454.9 Intl Cons Air 142.34 10.64 222.10 1.55 - -1.47 33326.3 
MandarO $ 2.20 0.01 2.36 1.65 - -7.24 6.4 Marstons 71.75 4.70 105.50 59.35 - -1.09 1654.3 Natl Exp 233.40 9.00 
413.50 206.70 - -5.03 795.3 PPHE Htl 1382 -8.00 1800 1175 - -6.14 5.7 Restaurt 90.80 7.00 140.00 52.56 - 9.55 
2409.3 Ryanair Holdings PLC 313.50 1.00 338.60 250.00 1.05 53.14 266.7 TUI 212.50 8.90 505.60 189.85 - -1.44 
3887.1 Whitbrd 2976 93.00 3949.01 36.28 - -24.16 409.9
Load-Date: December 6, 2021
End of Document
European ADRs Climb Higher in Monday Trading
European ADRs Climb Higher in Monday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
December 6, 2021 Monday 11:03 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 224 words
Body
 American depositary receipts of European stocks were trading 1.14% higher at 1,116.59 on the S&P/BNY Mellon 
Europe Select ADR Index on Monday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by hotel booking site trivago (TRVG) and bank holding company 
Deutsche Bank (DB), which rose 4.9% and 4.3% respectively. They were followed by bank holding company Banco 
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA) and brewing company Anheuser-Busch InBev (BUD), which increased 4.2% and 
3.3%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by biotech firm BioNTech SE (BNTX) and furniture maker Natuzzi 
(NTZ), which fell 14% and 8.6% respectively. They were followed by biopharmaceutical companies Calliditas 
Therapeutics (CALT) and Genfit (GNFT), which dropped 3.4% and 3.1%.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by cruise line operator Carnival Corporation (CUK) and medical device 
maker Smith & Nephew (SNN), which climbed 9.2% and 3.3% respectively. They were followed by construction 
materials supplier CRH plc (CRH) and airline operator Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY), which rose 3.1% each.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by biopharmaceutical company Verona Pharma (VRNA), which fell 
10%, followed by biopharmaceutical companies Bicycle Therapeutics (BCYC), which lost MorphoSys (MOR) 3.3% 
each. Fellow biopharmaceutical firm NuCana (NCNA) was down 2.1%.
Load-Date: December 6, 2021
End of Document
EasyJet chief plots more ambitious recovery course Interview. Johan Lundgren Low-cost carrier buys more 
airport slots but will remain more cautious than rivals
EasyJet chief plots more ambitious recovery course; Interview. Johan 
Lundgren Low-cost carrier buys more airport slots but will remain more 
cautious than rivals
Financial Times (London, England)
December 6, 2021 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 12
Length: 962 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS
Body
Johan Lundgren has decided it is time to be more ambitious. The easyJet boss is switching to a bolder strategy to 
take on freewheeling rivals Ryanair and Wizz after the airline's notably cautious approach to the pandemic.
The UK low-cost carrier is buying up slots at busy airports, including London Gatwick, and predicting a return to 
close to pre-pandemic levels of flying by next summer in a significant about turn.
Lundgren hopes the change will shore up easyJet's battered share price and satisfy some "underwhelmed" 
investors, who have been calling for a more aggressive strategy.
It shows the Swedish executive, who has emphasised being "credible and trustworthy", is hoping to step up his 
challenge to Ryanair and Wizz, Europe's two other two big low-cost carriers.
"In times of uncertainty, there will always be a space for big mouths who fill the vacuum with endless expectations 
of growth in the long term. And that is attractive, perhaps, for some people to listen to," he told the Financial Times 
as he took a swipe at Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary and Wizz's Jñzsef Váradi, who have both been bullish in their 
predictions for growth.
EasyJet chief plots more ambitious recovery course Interview. Johan Lundgren Low-cost carrier buys more 
airport slots but will remain more cautious than rivals
Lundgren's new approach, bolstered by easyJet's bigger-than-expected £1.2bn capital raising in September, comes 
at a key moment for the airline as uncertainty sweeps though the industry after the emergence of the Omicron 
variant last week.
It also comes as the airline's share price languishes 50 per cent below prepandemic levels, in contrast to the 
recovery of those of Ryanair and Wizz, which have ordered hundreds of jets to take advantage of the retreat of 
weaker groups as they aim for rapid expansion.
O'Leary has talked of a once-in-ageneration chance to grab market share because of the pandemic, while Wizz 
launched an opportunist bid for easyJet, which was rejected unanimously by the British group's board.
But some of Lundgren's caution remains. "The lack of clarity of where we are, and the uncertainty, which has been 
proven this week [with the emergence of the Omicron variant] as an example, means that you also have to be 
realistic and understand that this is not a short-term sprint," he said.
His approach is based on a tough past year for the airline, which lost more than £2bn during the pandemic as it 
slowly rebuilt its flight schedules and focused on running routes where it could fill seats to maximise returns.
But its depressed share price and capacity, expected to be 65 per cent of normal this quarter, compared with 
Ryanair and Wizz, which are both back to near pre-pandemic schedules, have prompted some to question whether 
Lundgren has charted the right course.
One industry executive with knowledge of easyJet's negotiations with airports said he had been struck by the 
airline's caution in adding new routes and jumping on post-pandemic opportunities. Eddie Wilson, Ryanair's senior 
executive, said easyJet "seems to be gradually retreating". Speaking at an industry event, he said: "They are 
getting smaller ... we always take opportunities in periods like this."
Lundgren admitted that shareholders felt targets set out in September at the company's annual results presentation 
were not bold enough.
"There's no secret that there might be some people who are underwhelmed by the targets," he said of goals that 
included getting back to pre-pandemic capacity by 2023 and aims for low to mid-teen return of capital over the 
same timeframe. "There's still uncertainty about the pace of the recovery. Therefore, you want to make sure also 
that you're coming out with a target that you feel that you can hit. And you know my ambition is, of course, to beat 
them. And that's the whole purpose of everything that we're doing," he added.
There are reasons for his more cautious approach compared with his two main rivals. The carrier has suffered from 
its exposure to the UK market, which has been slower to recover than continental Europe because of more onerous 
travel restrictions, including expensive testing. It also flies from more expensive airports than Ryanair and Wizz and 
has higher costs.
In addition, Lundgren has faced withering criticism from the company's largest shareholder and founder Stelios 
Haji-Ioannou, who wants the airline to slash its fleet and last year launched an unsuccessful bid to replace the chief 
executive and other board members.
Although the influence of Haji- Ioannou's stake has been drastically reduced after his shares were diluted to 15 per 
cent from 25 per cent when the airline raised capital in September, the pressure to shrink the business has 
complicated the carrier's challenges.
"I just note that there was some criticism on the company for 14 months of the pandemic, asking ... why do we have 
all these planes on order? And now there's more like, well, do you have enough of them?" he said.
He also faced the threat of takeover from rivals, highlighted this autumn when Wizz made its bid. "It's not un- usual 
that these things happen. Equally, we would ourselves look at other companies from time to time," he said.
EasyJet chief plots more ambitious recovery course Interview. Johan Lundgren Low-cost carrier buys more 
airport slots but will remain more cautious than rivals
Yet he dismisses significant consolidation as the industry emerges from the pandemic and expects the airline to 
continue its recovery as bookings for the summer are now running ahead of prepandemic levels, while the 
accumulation of airport slots means the carrier is well-placed to grab market share.
He also has the early support of new chair Stephen Hester. The carrier "will be straining every sinew to create real 
shareholder bounceback in coming years", Hester said on his first day last week as he stressed the airline's 
renewed determination to emerge as a pandemic winner and finally reward its long-suffering shareholders.
EasyJet 
has 
been 
slowerto 
ramp 
up 
than 
rivalsPassenger 
numbers 
as 
a 
% 
of 
2019Source: 
GridPoint0204060801002020Jun2021Oc
Graphic
 
Flight plans: Johan Lundgren, easyJet chief executive, has emphasised being 'credible and trustworthy' as he 
challenges Ryanair and Wizz and tries to satisfy 'underwhelmed' investors Anna Gordon/FT
Load-Date: December 5, 2021
End of Document
Well connected, but properly plugged in?; Corporate culture and loyalties are changing as more of us are 
working from home, writes Andrew Hill
Well connected, but properly plugged in?; Corporate culture and loyalties 
are changing as more of us are working from home, writes Andrew Hill
Financial Times (London, England)
December 6, 2021 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FT BUSINESS EDUCATION;FEATURES; Pg. 10
Length: 840 words
Byline: Andrew Hill
Body
'Absence makes the heart grow fonder," according to the proverb. Or is it more a case of "out of sight, out of mind"? 
Lengthy periods of enforced remote working have demonstrated that, for any group of employees, both can 
sometimes be true. Working from home during the pandemic loosened UK professionals' ties with the consultancies 
or law or accountancy firms that employed them, the Financial Times recently reported. The lifting of lockdown then 
encouraged job-hopping because candidates could now bond with prospective employers face to face.
These are two sides of the "out of sight, out of mind" coin: heads, the isolation of remote working reduces loyalty to 
your existing employer; tails, the revival of in-person encounters encourages you to form an attachment with a new 
one.
In the "absence makes the heart grows fonder" camp, though, sits work by the Financial Services Culture Board. Its 
2020 assessment of thousands of UK banking staff detected improvements in scores for feedback, leaders' 
honesty, and wellbeing. Those scores fell back slightly this year, but remained more positive than in 2019. Jenny 
Robinson, the FSCB's senior behavioural scientist, suggests people might have felt "they were able to use their 
judgment and autonomy" more when working remotely.
Well connected, but properly plugged in?; Corporate culture and loyalties are changing as more of us are 
working from home, writes Andrew Hill
Then there is a study by the Oliver Wyman Forum that found a desire for more flexibility and a better work-life 
balance, rather than a hunger to return to the office, were the most important reasons for leaving or wanting to 
leave a job, after the quest for more money.
The sweet spot is hard to hit. Undermanaged remote-working staff can feel neglected, leading to bad 
consequences, from job dissatisfaction to burnout and fraud.
Another poll this year, by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors, highlighted the risk of a "post-pandemic 
organisational culture crisis". "How do employees maintain their strong attachment to the business, continue to 
experience the shared purpose, values and sense of community within their organisation and uphold expected 
behaviours in the absence of the old office-centric in-person interactions?" asked Heli Mooney, head of internal 
audit at airline Ryanair.
Whether the office repels or attracts depends on where you sit in the hierarchy. Robinson identifies two "humps" - 
representing senior managers and junior employees or new starters. They are keener to return to the office than the 
staff in between. "How much a part of their organisation does someone feel if their integration has been a keyboard 
transfer in a car park?" one manager responded to the FSCB when asked what it meant to belong to a business 
that has "no unifying cultural experiences".
As the FSCB points out, there is a difference between connectedness, which technology enabled during lockdown, 
and collaboration, which can be more difficult. Processes that bind in new or junior staff, such as desk-side learning 
from experienced staff, are hard to replicate online. That is one reason investment banks, which set great store by 
such methods, have spearheaded "return to the office" campaigns.
Organisational cultures are certainly being reshaped by the shock of coronavirus and its consequences. That this is 
creating fallout in the labour market is not a surprise to Kevin Rockmann, a management professor at George 
Mason University in Virginia. Not everyone who was satisfied in their job before the pandemic will be satisfied after 
it.
Rockmann and Michael Pratt of Boston College studied the unintended consequences of distributed work at an 
unnamed technology company in a 2015 paper for the Academy of Management Discoveries journal entitled 
"Contagious Offsite Work and the Lonely Office". One central finding was that once a proportion of workers decided 
to operate remotely, the quality of work in the office was diminished. Staff found themselves "alone in a crowd, 
surrounded by people but not gaining any meaningful social contact in the on-site office" and ultimately chose to 
work off-site.
That feeling will be familiar to anyone who has returned to the workplace only to find that the people they want to 
meet have chosen that day to work from home.
As employers seek to reverse the flow to remote work, Rockmann says they and employees, like their counterparts 
in 2015, may have to make choices. "This is going to lead to some shake-up," he says. It is fine to experiment, he 
adds, but ultimately companies "need to put their flag in the ground" and make working arrangements clear, so staff 
can elect to stay or quit. "A lazy solution is to jump to an in-between model and try to make everybody happy: the 
average level of dissatisfaction [with that approach] will be high."
Of course, employers, and even staff, may be "homesick" for a cultural and management ideal that never really 
existed before the pandemic, the FSCB's Robinson says. But, as the crisis ebbs, they will also come to realise that 
corporate loyalty and culture depend less on where work is carried out and more on how it is done, celebrated, 
rewarded and overseen.
Graphic
Well connected, but properly plugged in?; Corporate culture and loyalties are changing as more of us are 
working from home, writes Andrew Hill
 
Andrew Hill is the FT's management editorPHOTO: GETTY IMAGES
Load-Date: December 5, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 6, 2021 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 19
Length: 151 words
Body
Carnival 1207.6 24.80 1890.2 1073 - -2.00 1709.4 CompassX 1511.5 58.00 1721.63 18.06 - -65.43 5417.8 Dalata 
Hotel 302.50 -2.50 414.50 272.00 - -11.55 288.8 easyJet 528.20 28.40 1095 6.81 - -1.74 5369.6 FirstGrp 93.15 -
9.75 107.10 63.25 - 23.88 1976.0 Flutter Entertainment 10030 -270.00 19680.8 9912 - -252.01 793.5 Fuller A 
678.00 -6.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.77 14.7 Go-Ahead 694.50 3.00 1463 656.00 - -6.48 53.6 IntCon Htels Gp 4544 -
36.00 5568 4389 - -4485.69 602.6 Intl Cons Air 131.70 0.30 222.10 1.55 - -1.36 29430.0 MandarO $ 2.20 -0.04 
2.36 1.65 - -7.25 6.4 Marstons 67.05 -2.95 105.50 59.35 - -1.02 1231.9 Natl Exp 224.40 10.40 413.50 206.70 - -
4.84 2076.6 PPHE Htl 1390 40.00 1800 1175 - -6.18 3.5 Restaurt 83.80 6.20 140.00 52.56 - 8.81 3001.6 Ryanair 
Holdings PLC 312.50 3.50 338.60 250.00 1.06 52.97 218.3 TUI 203.60 5.10 505.60 189.85 - -1.38 3577.5 Whitbrd 
2883 46.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.40 691.2
Load-Date: December 5, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Posts Encouraging November Traffic Statistics
Ryanair (RYAAY) Posts Encouraging November Traffic Statistics
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
December 6, 2021 Monday 11:15 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1085 words
Byline: Zacks Equity Research
Body
Dec 06, 2021( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings' RYAAY[1] November traffic report was highly impressive despite the rise in coronavirus cases in 
Europe. With air-travel demand skyrocketing from the 2020 levels, courtesy of increased vaccination, traffic surged 
more than 100% year over year to 10.2 million. Traffic in November 2020 was only two million at RYAAY. 
Load factor (percentage of seats filled with passengers) in November 2021 was 86% compared with 62% in 
November 2020. Ryanair, currently carrying a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell), operated more than 62,300 flights last month. 
You can seethe complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here[2]. 
Though the data was more upbeat than the 2020 scenario, Ryanair's traffic in November was 9.7% lower than 11.3 
million recorded in October 2021. This decline may have been due to the rising coronavirus cases in Europe. 
RYAAY operated more flights (in excess of 71,500 flights) in October from the November reading. 
Apart from the month-over-month decline, Ryanair's November traffic was below the pre-pandemic levels. The 
airline's November 2021 traffic fell 7.3% from the comparable period's level in 2019. Load factor in November 2019 
was also much higher, reading 96%. Key Picks Here are some better-ranked stocks within the broader 
Transportation[3] sector: 
Schneider National SNDR[4] currently sports a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). SNDR has a stellar surprise history as 
its earnings outperformed the Zacks Consensus Estimate in each of the preceding four quarters, the average being 
21%. 
Shares of Schneider National have rallied more than 19% so far this year. SNDR is being aided by a strong 
performance in the Intermodal and Logistics units. The Intermodal segment is benefiting from yield management 
and increased volumes. The Logistics unit is thriving on the back of favorable market conditions and other factors. 
Expeditors International of Washington EXPD[5] currently flaunts a Zacks Rank of 1. EXPD's earnings surpassed 
the Zacks Consensus Estimate in each of the preceding four quarters, the average being 29.1%. 
Shares of Expeditors have appreciated more than 32% so far this year. EXPD is being aided by an increase in 
airfreight revenues in this coronavirus-ravaged scenario. Evidently, Airfreight Services revenues increased 
approximately 54% year over year in the first nine months of 2021. We are also encouraged by EXPD's measures 
to reward its shareholders through dividends and buybacks. 
 Investor Alert: Legal Marijuana Looking for big gains? 
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Posts Encouraging November Traffic Statistics
 Now is the time to get in on a young industry primed to skyrocket from $13.5 billion in 2021 to an expected $70.6 
billion by 2028. 
 After a clean sweep of 6 election referendums in 5 states, pot is now legal in 36 states plus D.C. Federal 
legalization is expected soon and that could kick start an even greater bonanza for investors. Zacks Investment 
Research has recently closed pot stocks that have shot up as high as +147.0%. 
 You're invited to immediately check out Zacks' Marijuana Moneymakers: An Investor's Guide. It features a timely 
Watch List of pot stocks and ETFs with exceptional growth potential. Today, Download Marijuana Moneymakers 
FREE  > >[6] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[7] Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[8] 
Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (EXPD): Free Stock Analysis Report[9] Schneider National, Inc. 
(SNDR): Free Stock Analysis Report[10] To read this article on Zacks.com click here.[11] Zacks Investment 
Research[12] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/premium/login/?continue_to=%2Fstocks%2Fbuy-
list%2F%3FADID%3Dzp_1link%26ICID%3Dzpi_1link 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/industry-
rank/sector/transportation-15 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/SNDR 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/EXPD 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/4e87?add=1652&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_MARIJUANAREPORT_ANALYSTBLOG_257_12062021&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-
analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-1836006 
[ 
7]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-1836006 
[ 
8]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1836006 
[ 
9]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=EXPD&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1836006 
[ 
10]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=SNDR&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1836006 [ 11]: http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1836006/ryanair-ryaay-posts-encouraging-
november-traffic-statistics?cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-1836006 
[ 12]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 6, 2021
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Posts Encouraging November Traffic Statistics
End of Document
Ryanair announces partnership with Junta de Andalucía
Ryanair announces partnership with Junta de Andalucía
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 04, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 396 words
Body
Ryanair, Europe's has announced its latest partnership with Junta de Andalucía in a bid to further boost tourism 
recovery across the Spanish region. Central to the partnership is an exciting and innovative joint communications 
campaign aimed at strengthening Spain's position as an attractive tourist destination and spurring visitors from 
Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Ireland, Norway and Sweden.
As the most southern region in Spain, Andalucía is famous for its Moorish architecture, autonomous region of hills, 
clear-blue rivers, and mouth-watering food - the perfect destination for a relaxing getaway this Dec/Jan.
Ryanair's Director of Marketing, Dara Brady said: "We are delighted to partner with Junta de Andalucía and to work 
together to enhance connectivity between Spain and the rest of Europe, steadily rebuilding the nation's tourism 
industry.
We have already significantly increased connectivity to/from the Spanish region with the introduction of new routes 
and additional frequencies from across Europe. This partnership will further promote this beautiful region and 
Ryanair's network of low fare routes to Spain, which are becoming increasingly popular among our growing 
customer base as they plan their well-deserved new year breaks."
Vice President & Minister for Tourism of the Regional Government of Andalucía, Mr. Juan Marín said: "We are very 
excited to work with Ryanair, Europe's no.1 airline, on this incredibly important campaign promoting Andalucía as 
an attractive tourism destination for European travellers.
Ryanair is a long-standing supporter of Spain and our connectivity with Europe, including Belgium, Denmark, 
France, Germany, Italy, Ireland, Norway and Sweden, and has driven tourism to the region for many years now with 
its strong network of routes and market leading low fares.
We are sure that Ryanair's customers will enjoy visiting to our stunning south coast where they can indulge in 
traditional Andalucían cuisine and take in the stunning sights of our Moorish architecture."
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Ryanair announces partnership with Junta de Andalucía
Load-Date: December 8, 2021
End of Document
Saturday Papers: Rishi Sunak’s plan to slash taxes
Saturday Papers: Rishi Sunak’s plan to slash taxes
Citywire
December 4, 2021 Saturday 5:48 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 576 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And US believes Russia could invade Ukraine ‘as soon as early 2022’.
Body
Top stories
•
The Times: Rishi Sunak is preparing to cut income tax by 2p in the pound or to slash VAT rates before the 
next election.
•
Financial Times: The US believes Russia is planning to invade Ukraine ‘as soon as early 2022’ in a sign of 
the escalating alarm in Washington about Moscow’s intentions towards its neighbour.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Walgreens Boots Alliance, the American owners of Boots, are poised to launch an 
auction of the high street pharmacy valuing the business at more than £5bn.
•
Financial Times: Investors retreated from US stocks on Friday, dumping shares in large technology 
companies and sending the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite index sharply lower.
•
Financial Times: France has secured its biggest overseas order for its Rafale combat jet with the United 
Arab Emirates as President Macron looks to deepen ties with an important Middle Eastern ally.
Business and economics
•
The Daily Telegraph: Markets abandoned their bets on an interest rate rise this month after one of the 
Bank of England’s most hawkish officials said there was a case to ‘wait and see’ on the impact of omicron.
•
The Guardian: Debenhams has returned to the high street under new owners Boohoo with a beauty store 
at Manchester’s Arndale shopping centre.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Boris Johnson has promised to build a new motorway junction and revive an old rail 
link as part of a raft of measures to tempt electric truck maker Rivian to base a £1bn factory in the UK.
•
The Guardian: Nationwide has appointed Debbie Crosbie as the first female chief executive in the building 
society’s 175-year history.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Martin Clarke, the combative mastermind of MailOnline, has stepped down as the 
website’s editor and chief executive in the latest executive reshuffle at Lord Rothermere’s media empire.
•
Daily Mail: Patrick Drahi will take a seat on the board of BT by buying Deutsche Telekom's stake in the 
group, analysts believe.
Saturday Papers: Rishi Sunak’s plan to slash taxes
•
The Times: The European telecoms market is set to deliver record levels of mergers and acquisitions next 
year, according to analysts at JP Morgan Cazenove, BT’s joint house broker.
•
The Guardian: A cybersecurity company filed a $110m lawsuit in New York this week, accusing the 
Spanish global energy company Iberdrola and its US subsidiary Avangrid of bid rigging and racketeering.
•
Daily Mail: On the Beach is suing Ryanair for £2.3m over money owed for flight cancellations during the 
pandemic.
•
The Daily Telegraph: The Government is facing a backlash after Shell pulled out of a controversial North 
Sea oil and gas project amid rising pressure over climate change.
•
The Times: The accounting watchdog has dropped its investigation into the former finance chief of 
Conviviality, which used to own the Bargain Booze and Wine Rack chains and collapsed in 2018.
Share tips, comment and bids
•
Financial Times: American Express Global Business Travel announced it will go public in a merger with a 
New York-listed blank cheque company backed by Apollo Global Management.
•
Financial Times: Chinese ride-hailing group Didi Chuxing said it would delist from the New York Stock 
Exchange, accelerating China’s decoupling from US capital markets.
•
The Times: BuzzFeed is set to raise markedly less than expected from its stock market listing after 
investors withdrew funds from the shell company with which it is preparing to merge.
•
The Daily Telegraph (Comment): Ghosts of Weimar haunt Germany as tabloids attack EU bankers over 
soaring inflation.
Load-Date: December 4, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 4, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. 17
Length: 149 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1207.6 19.60 1890.2 1073 - -2.00 1629.9 CompassX 1511.5 -2.00 1721.63 18.06 - -65.43 
4845.4 Dalata Hote 302.50 10.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.55 268.7 easyJet 528.20 -3.00 1095 6.81 - -1.74 4146.1 
FirstGrp 93.15 -0.45 107.10 63.25 - 23.88 1825.1 Flutter Ent 10030 -100.00 19680.8 9912 - -252.01 714.1 Fuller A 
678.00 -2.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.77 14.6 Go-Ahead 694.50 0.50 1463 656.00 - -6.48 48.7 IntCon Htel 4544 -11.00 
5568 4389 - -4485.69 495.4 Intl Cons A 131.70 -0.62 222.10 1.55 - -1.36 25276.3 MandarO $ 2.20 0.01 2.36 1.65 - 
-7.25 6.4 Marstons 67.05 -1.35 105.50 59.35 - -1.02 1010.0 Natl Exp 224.40 0.80 413.50 206.70 - -4.84 1943.6 
PPHE Htl 1390 38.00 1800 1175 - -6.18 3.5 Restaurt 83.80 0.50 140.00 52.56 - 8.81 2262.5 Ryanair Hol 312.50 -
4.00 338.60 250.00 1.06 52.97 193.3 TUI 203.60 2.40 505.60 189.85 - -1.38 2836.9 Whitbrd 2883 -5.00 3949.01 
36.28 - -23.40 632.7
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 4, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 23
Length: 149 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1207.6 19.60 1890.2 1073 - -2.00 1629.9 CompassX 1511.5 -2.00 1721.63 18.06 - -65.43 
4845.4 Dalata Hote302.50 10.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.55 268.7 easyJet 528.20 -3.00 1095 6.81 - -1.74 4146.1 
FirstGrp 93.15 -0.45 107.10 63.25 - 23.88 1825.1 Flutter Ent10030 -100.00 19680.8 9912 - -252.01 714.1 Fuller A 
678.00 -2.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.77 14.6 Go-Ahead 694.50 0.50 1463 656.00 - -6.48 48.7 IntCon Htel4544 -11.00 
5568 4389 - -4485.69 495.4 Intl Cons A131.70 -0.62 222.10 1.55 - -1.36 25276.3 MandarO $ 2.20 0.01 2.36 1.65 - -
7.25 6.4 Marstons 67.05 -1.35 105.50 59.35 - -1.02 1010.0 Natl Exp 224.40 0.80 413.50 206.70 - -4.84 1943.6 
PPHE Htl 1390 38.00 1800 1175 - -6.18 3.5 Restaurt 83.80 0.50 140.00 52.56 - 8.81 2262.5 Ryanair Hol312.50 -
4.00 338.60 250.00 1.06 52.97 193.3 TUI 203.60 2.40 505.60 189.85 - -1.38 2836.9 Whitbrd 2883 -5.00 3949.01 
36.28 - -23.40 632.7
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 4, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 149 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1207.6 19.60 1890.2 1073 - -2.00 1629.9 CompassX 1511.5 -2.00 1721.63 18.06 - -65.43 
4845.4 Dalata Hote 302.50 10.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.55 268.7 easyJet 528.20 -3.00 1095 6.81 - -1.74 4146.1 
FirstGrp 93.15 -0.45 107.10 63.25 - 23.88 1825.1 Flutter Ent 10030 -100.00 19680.8 9912 - -252.01 714.1 Fuller A 
678.00 -2.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.77 14.6 Go-Ahead 694.50 0.50 1463 656.00 - -6.48 48.7 IntCon Htel 4544 -11.00 
5568 4389 - -4485.69 495.4 Intl Cons A 131.70 -0.62 222.10 1.55 - -1.36 25276.3 MandarO $ 2.20 0.01 2.36 1.65 - 
-7.25 6.4 Marstons 67.05 -1.35 105.50 59.35 - -1.02 1010.0 Natl Exp 224.40 0.80 413.50 206.70 - -4.84 1943.6 
PPHE Htl 1390 38.00 1800 1175 - -6.18 3.5 Restaurt 83.80 0.50 140.00 52.56 - 8.81 2262.5 Ryanair Hol 312.50 -
4.00 338.60 250.00 1.06 52.97 193.3 TUI 203.60 2.40 505.60 189.85 - -1.38 2836.9 Whitbrd 2883 -5.00 3949.01 
36.28 - -23.40 632.7
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 4, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 149 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1207.6 19.60 1890.2 1073 - -2.00 1629.9 CompassX 1511.5 -2.00 1721.63 18.06 - -65.43 
4845.4 Dalata Hote 302.50 10.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.55 268.7 easyJet 528.20 -3.00 1095 6.81 - -1.74 4146.1 
FirstGrp 93.15 -0.45 107.10 63.25 - 23.88 1825.1 Flutter Ent 10030 -100.00 19680.8 9912 - -252.01 714.1 Fuller A 
678.00 -2.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.77 14.6 Go-Ahead 694.50 0.50 1463 656.00 - -6.48 48.7 IntCon Htel 4544 -11.00 
5568 4389 - -4485.69 495.4 Intl Cons A 131.70 -0.62 222.10 1.55 - -1.36 25276.3 MandarO $ 2.20 0.01 2.36 1.65 - 
-7.25 6.4 Marstons 67.05 -1.35 105.50 59.35 - -1.02 1010.0 Natl Exp 224.40 0.80 413.50 206.70 - -4.84 1943.6 
PPHE Htl 1390 38.00 1800 1175 - -6.18 3.5 Restaurt 83.80 0.50 140.00 52.56 - 8.81 2262.5 Ryanair Hol 312.50 -
4.00 338.60 250.00 1.06 52.97 193.3 TUI 203.60 2.40 505.60 189.85 - -1.38 2836.9 Whitbrd 2883 -5.00 3949.01 
36.28 - -23.40 632.7
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
U.S. Senate confirmed pilot C.B. "Sully" Sullenberger to be the U.S. representative on the United Nations ' air-
safety body
U.S. Senate confirmed pilot C.B. "Sully" Sullenberger to be the U.S. 
representative on the United Nations' air-safety body
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 03, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 357 words
Body
The U.S. Senate has confirmed C.B. "Sully" Sullenberger to be the U.S. representative on the Council of the 
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the United Nations' air-safety body.
The 70-year-old Sullenberger, who rose to fame as a commercial pilot who safely landed an Airbus A320 on New 
York's Hudson River after an in-flight emergency in 2009, said earlier this year that Belarus should be temporarily 
barred from voting at the ICAO because of its diversion of a Ryanair flight in May.
"More action needs to be taken," Sullenberger told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on September 29 
during his nomination hearing.
He noted that under certain conditions the ICAO can temporarily remove the voting rights of a state for violating 
international norms.
"We should be pulling every lever necessary to hold accountable those responsible for this act," Sullenberger said.
Belarusian journalist Raman Pratasevich and his Russian girlfriend, Sofia Sapega, were detained when Belarus 
scrambled a military jet to escort the Athens-to-Vilnius flight which they were on to land in Minsk because of a bomb 
threat that proved to be false.
Sullenberger said the arrest of Pratasevich "showed flagrant disregard for international norms of aviation security 
and safety." He said the ICAO "must ensure that those standards are upheld" and he vowed to push for a full 
chronology of what happened.
The ICAO said on November 9 that an investigative report on the incident will not be released until its next session 
in January.
Pratasevich and Sapega are currently under house arrest. Pratasevich faces charges of being behind protests that 
followed a disputed presidential election in August 2020, an offense punishable by up to 15 years in prison. The 
charges against Sapega are less clear. rferl.org
U.S. Senate confirmed pilot C.B. "Sully" Sullenberger to be the U.S. representative on the United Nations ' air-
safety body
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 8, 2021
End of Document
Belarus state airline Belavia cuts fleet by nearly half due to sanctions
Belarus state airline Belavia cuts fleet by nearly half due to sanctions
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
December 03, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 268 words
Body
Belarusian state-run airline Belavia said on Dec. 3 it had been forced to reduce its fleet of planes by almost half 
after the European Union targeted it with sanctions.
The EU sanctioned Belavia on Thursday, accusing it of flying in migrants as a tactic to destabilise European states, 
punitive measures that were coordinated with Washington.
The sanctions mean EU companies can no longer lease planes to the airline, EU officials have said.
"Due to the imposition of restrictions, the airline has been forced to reduce its fleet," Belavia said in a statement, 
adding it currently had 15 aircraft.
It did not specify which of its previous 14 Boeing and 15 Embraer aircraft were no longer part of the fleet.
As of the end of last year, the airline owned 15 planes, including 5 Embraer and 8 Boeing aircraft, with the same 
number on lease. One of Belavia's biggest suppliers of leased planes has been the Air Lease Corporation (ALC).
Belavia, the only airline in the ex-Soviet economy of 9.5 million people, said it planned to rebuild its fleet by 
purchasing planes and also by leasing them from non-EU based companies.
It has been banned from much of Europe's airspace after an international outcry over the grounding of a Ryanair jet 
in Belarus and arrest of a dissident.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 8, 2021
End of Document
Redwood Investments LLC Decreases Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Redwood Investments LLC Decreases Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
December 3, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 598 words
Body
Ryanair Redwood Investments LLC decreased its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 2.0% in the 
3rd quarter, according to its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The 
firm owned 108,066 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 2,256 shares during the period. 
Redwood Investments LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $11,894,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
Other institutional investors and hedge funds have also modified their holdings of the company. Geode Capital 
Management LLC boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 3.0% in the second quarter. Geode Capital Management LLC 
now owns 98,369 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $10,644,000 after purchasing an 
additional 2,890 shares during the last quarter.  Plaisance Capital LLC purchased a new position in  Ryanair in the 
second quarter valued at about $2,857,000.  Harbor Investment Advisory LLC boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 
9.5% in the third quarter. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $245,000 after purchasing an additional 193 shares during the last quarter.  Lazard Asset 
Management LLC boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 6.3% in the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after purchasing an 
additional 296,366 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Ninety One UK Ltd purchased a new position in  Ryanair 
in the second quarter valued at about $2,414,000. 43.91% of the stock is owned by hedge funds and other 
institutional investors.  
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of research analyst reports. Raymond James reduced their target price on 
Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating on the stock in a report on Monday. JPMorgan 
Chase & Co.  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Deutsche 
Bank Aktiengesellschaft  reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. 
Morgan Stanley  reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 
2nd. Finally, Credit Suisse Group  reiterated an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on 
Friday, September 17th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued  a 
buy rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat.com, Ryanair  has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an 
average price target of $122.08. 
Shares of NASDAQ RYAAY  opened at $100.18 on Friday. The stock has a fifty day moving average price of 
$111.95 and a two-hundred day moving average price of $110.48. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, 
Redwood Investments LLC Decreases Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The firm has a market cap of $22.62 billion, a P/E ratio of -28.46 
and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $94.68 and a 1 year high of $127.25.  
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Understanding and Trading Breakout Stocks  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Price Target Cut to $138.00 by Analysts at Raymond James
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Price Target Cut to $138.00 by Analysts at 
Raymond James
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
December 3, 2021 Friday 10:06 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 806 words
Body
Dec 03, 2021( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgRyanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) had its price objective 
lowered by Raymond James from $140.00 to $138.00 in a report released on Monday morning, 
PriceTargets.com[1] reports. Raymond James currently has an outperform rating on the transportation company's 
stock. 
A number of other brokerages have also recently weighed in on RYAAY. JPMorgan Chase & Co. restated a neutral 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Sanford C. Bernstein cut shares of Ryanair from 
an outperform rating to a market perform rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. Barclays restated an 
overweight rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft 
restated a buy rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Credit Suisse Group 
restated an outperform rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Five research analysts 
have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have issued a buy rating to the stock. According to data from 
MarketBeat, Ryanair has an average rating of Buy and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Ryanair stock[2] opened at $100.18 on Monday. The firm has a 50 day simple moving average of $111.95 and a 
200-day simple moving average of $110.48. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 
and a quick ratio of 1.34. The stock has a market capitalization of $22.62 billion, a PE ratio of -28.46 and a beta of 
1.56. Ryanair has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-month high of $127.25.  
Several institutional investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. Lazard Asset Management 
LLC raised its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now 
owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after purchasing an 
additional 296,366 shares in the last quarter. Capital International Investors grew its stake in Ryanair by 3.1% in the 
2nd quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $1,067,172,000 after buying an additional 294,131 shares during the last quarter. William Blair Investment 
Management LLC grew its stake in Ryanair by 14.3% in the 2nd quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC 
now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $243,862,000 after buying an 
additional 281,774 shares during the last quarter. Pendal Group Ltd acquired a new position in Ryanair in the 3rd 
quarter valued at $30,945,000. Finally, Baillie Gifford & Co. grew its stake in Ryanair by 2.5% in the 3rd quarter. 
Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,186,170,000 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Price Target Cut to $138.00 by Analysts at Raymond James
after buying an additional 264,133 shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 
43.91% of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: Price to Earnings Ratio (PE)[3] 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/market-data/low-pe-stocks/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair remains positive despite Omicron worries
Ryanair remains positive despite Omicron worries
City A.M.
December 3, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 358 words
Byline: ILARIA GRASSO MACOLA
Body
RYANAIR's airline chief said yesterday that he remained positive about summer demand.
"We were hoping that the demand curve would really get going in January once we got through Christmas but then 
that had been sort of Tboned by the travel restrictions but we're still optimistic about next summer, we can see it in 
terms of pent-up demand," said Eddie Wilson.
"We need more testing but not travel restrictions," he continued.
The low-cost airline said yesterday it had carried 10.2m passengers in November 2021, up from just 2m in the 
same month last year.
"If you look at November, we have had a load factor of 86 per cent [but] it's going to be challenging for Christmas 
because it's not necessarily going to be price-led because people will feel the pressure not to travel for their own 
personal reasons," Wilson said.
Meanwhile rival Wizz Air reported a similar growth pattern, carrying more than 2m passengers in November. That 
represents a 375 per cent increase on this time last year.
Speaking at London's World Avia- tion Festival, Wizz Air's president Robert Carey called the ongoing situation "a bit 
of a roller-coaster."
"For us it's been pretty much the same playbook we have been seeing," he said. "We will adjust up as we need to 
and adjust down as we need to, and roll with the restrictions as they change.
"The core of our business is worker traffic, and those people still need to travel with or without the pandemic."
Ryanair remains positive despite Omicron worries
Wizz Air has been preparing for life to go back to normal, announcing a host of aircraft purchases.
Whilst European countries deal with the impacts of the new variant, US President Joe Biden said yesterday that he 
didn't expect to have to impose significant new travel restrictions on transatlantic travel.
Like many countries, the US has imposed travel restrictions on travel from southern African countries.
But yesterday the President said he did not anticipate having to significantly further travel bans.
In Germany however, unvaccinated people are being effectively banned from bars and restaurants.
Outgoing chancellor Angela Merkel said it was a sign of "national solidarity" to interrupt the fourth wave of Covid-19.
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
USA takes additional measures against Lukashenko regime
USA takes additional measures against Lukashenko regime
Newstex Blogs 
EU Reporter
December 3, 2021 Friday 5:00 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 726 words
Byline: European Commission
Body
Dec 03, 2021( EU Reporter: http://www.eureporter.co Delivered by Newstex)  
 "Pursuant to Executive Orders 13405 and 14038, the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets 
Control (OFAC) has identified three aircraft as blocked property and designated 32 individuals and entities, 
including Belarusian state-owned enterprises, government officials, and other persons, who support the regime and 
facilitate its repression. Additionally, OFAC has issued a directive prohibiting certain activities involving new debt 
with a maturity of greater than 90 days issued by the Belarusian Ministry of Finance or the Development Bank of the 
Republic of Belarus. 
"Today's actions demonstrate our unwavering determination to act in the face of a brutal regime that increasingly 
represses Belarusians, undermines the peace and security of Europe, and continues to abuse people seeking only 
to live in freedom. These sanctions are also in response to the Lukashenka regime's callous exploitation of 
vulnerable migrants from other countries in order to orchestrate migrant smuggling along its border with EU states. 
"The United States welcomes the steps taken today against the Lukashenka regime by our allies and partners, 
including the European Union, the United Kingdom, and Canada. We also commend Poland, Lithuania, and Latvia, 
for their response to the migrant crisis created by the Lukashenka regime on their borders. 
"The migrant crisis is only the latest example of the Lukashenka regime's repressive brutality and blatant disregard 
foe international norms. It is unjustly detaining nearly 900 political prisoners, with some languishing in prison on 
fabricated charges for over a year, while others are serving lengthy prison sentences for exercising their 
fundamental freedoms. Nearly all independent media outlets are shuttered, and Belarusian authorities are 
attempting to silence NGOs and civil society using fabricated 'extremism' charges.  
"This repression extends beyond Belarus's borders, with Belarusians facing intimidation abroad, such as when it 
forced the diversion to Minsk of Ryanair Flight 4978 for the apparent purpose of arresting Belarusian journalist 
Raman Pratasevich. 
"Our position is clear: The United States calls on the Lukashenka regime to end its crackdown on members of civil 
society, independent media, the political opposition, athletes, students, legal professionals and other Belarusians; to 
immediately release all political prisoners; to engage in a sincere dialogue with the democratic opposition and civil 
society; to fulfill its international human rights obligations; to stop its coercion of vulnerable people; and to hold free 
and fair elections under international observation.  
USA takes additional measures against Lukashenko regime
"We will continue working with the international community to promote accountability for those responsible for 
repression and human rights violations and abuses in Belarus. Standing with the people of Belarus in support of 
their human rights and fundamental freedoms, we will respond to Belarus' intransigence by directly raising the costs 
of doing business for and with the Lukashenka regime." 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 3, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 154 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1188 -40.00 1890.2 1073 - -1.97 2457.3 CompassX 1513.5 14.50 1721.63 18.06 - -65.52 
3270.7 Dalata Hotel 292.50 -15.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.17 79.0 easyJet 531.20 13.20 1095 6.81 - -1.75 6252.7 
FirstGrp 93.60 -1.65 107.10 61.70 - 24.00 478321.7 Flutter Entertainment 10130 -310.00 19680.8 9912 - -254.52 
656.0 Fuller A 680.00 - 977.73 580.00 - -7.79 11.7 Go-Ahead 694.00 4.50 1463 656.00 - -6.47 48.8 IntCon Htels 
Gp 4555 -8.00 5568 4389 - -4496.54 711.9 Intl Cons Air 132.32 0.56 222.10 1.55 - -1.37 39529.8 MandarO $ 2.19 -
0.03 2.36 1.65 - -7.17 14.2 Marstons 68.40 -0.40 105.50 59.35 - -1.04 1651.1 Natl Exp 223.60 3.40 413.50 206.70 - 
-4.82 942.3 PPHE Htl 1352 -18.00 1800 1175 - -6.01 17.9 Restaurt 83.30 -2.50 140.00 52.56 - 8.76 2113.5 Ryanair 
Holdings PLC 316.50 8.00 338.60 250.00 1.04 53.64 242.0 TUI 201.20 -4.40 529.66 189.85 - -1.36 6186.3 Whitbrd 
2888 -2.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.44 465.8
Load-Date: December 2, 2021
End of Document
European ADRs Move Higher in Thursday Trading
European ADRs Move Higher in Thursday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
December 2, 2021 Thursday 11:13 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 218 words
Body
 American depositary receipts of European stocks were trading 1.2% higher at 1,112.65 on the S&P/BNY Mellon 
Europe Select ADR Index on Thursday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by steel and mining company ArcelorMittal (MT) and internet advertising 
company Criteo (CRTO), which rose 4.3% and 4.2%, respectively. Deutsche Bank (DB) added 3.1% and Philips 
(PHG) gained 2.8%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by dating app operator Sparks Networks (LOV) and 
STMicroelectronics (STM), which declined 5.3% and 2.8%, respectively. They were followed by biopharmaceutical 
firm Cellectis (CLLS) and semiconductor firm Sequans Communications (SQNS), which lost 3.8% and 2.8%, 
respectively.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by oil and gas companies Royal Dutch Shell (RDS.A) and BP (BP), 
which rose 5.1% and 4.9%, respectively. They were followed by mining company BHP Group (BBL) and airline 
operator Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY), which rose 4.5% and 3.8%, respectively.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by biopharmaceutical company NuCana (NCNA) and pharmaceutical 
company Avadel Pharmaceuticals (AVDL), which lost 5.2% each. They were followed by biopharmaceutical 
company Mereo BioPharma Group (MREO) and software firm Endava (DAVA), which were down 4.8% and 3.3%, 
respectively.
Load-Date: December 2, 2021
End of Document
Baillie Gifford & Co. Acquires 264,133 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Baillie Gifford & Co. Acquires 264,133 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
December 2, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 613 words
Body
Ryanair Baillie Gifford & Co. grew its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 2.5% in the 3rd 
quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The institutional 
investor  owned 10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 264,133 
shares during the period. Baillie Gifford & Co. owned 4.77% of Ryanair worth $1,186,170,000 as of its most recent 
SEC filing.  
A number of other hedge funds have also bought and sold shares of the business. Raymond James Trust N.A. 
grew its position in  Ryanair by 27.7% in the third quarter. Raymond James Trust N.A. now owns 2,791 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $307,000 after acquiring an additional 605 shares in the last quarter.  
Private Advisor Group LLC grew its position in  Ryanair by 125.8% in the third quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC 
now owns 5,724 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $630,000 after acquiring an additional 3,189 
shares in the last quarter.  Manning & Napier Group LLC grew its position in  Ryanair by 1.3% in the third quarter. 
Manning & Napier Group LLC now owns 823,407 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $90,622,000 
after acquiring an additional 10,804 shares in the last quarter.  Harbor Investment Advisory LLC grew its position in  
Ryanair by 9.5% in the third quarter. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $245,000 after acquiring an additional 193 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, Bank of 
America Corp DE grew its position in  Ryanair by 17.8% in the second quarter. Bank of America Corp DE now owns 
1,194,585 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $129,266,000 after acquiring an additional 180,625 
shares in the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
RYAAY has been the subject of several recent analyst reports. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating 
to a "buy" rating in a report on Friday, September 17th. Morgan Stanley  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded shares of Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. Finally, Raymond 
James decreased their price objective on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating 
for the company in a report on Monday. Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve 
have issued  a buy rating to the company's stock. Based on data from MarketBeat, the company presently has an 
average rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Baillie Gifford & Co. Acquires 264,133 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $99.25 on Thursday. The company has a 50-day moving average of $112.21 and a 
200-day moving average of $110.55. The company has a market capitalization of $22.41 billion, a price-to-earnings 
ratio of -27.10 and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of 
$127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: Why is cost of goods sold important? 
Load-Date: December 2, 2021
End of Document
Baillie Gifford & Co. Acquires 264,133 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Baillie Gifford & Co. Acquires 264,133 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
December 2, 2021 Thursday 4:07 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 853 words
Body
Dec 02, 2021( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Baillie Gifford & Co. grew its holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 2.5% in the 3rd quarter, 
according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The institutional investor 
owned 10,777,474 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 264,133 shares during 
the period. Baillie Gifford & Co. owned 4.77% of Ryanair worth $1,186,170,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
A number of other hedge funds have also bought and sold shares of the business. Raymond James Trust N.A. 
grew its position in Ryanair by 27.7% in the third quarter. Raymond James Trust N.A. now owns 2,791 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $307,000 after acquiring an additional 605 shares in the last quarter. Private 
Advisor Group LLC grew its position in Ryanair by 125.8% in the third quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC now 
owns 5,724 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $630,000 after acquiring an additional 3,189 shares 
in the last quarter. Manning & Napier Group LLC grew its position in Ryanair by 1.3% in the third quarter. Manning 
& Napier Group LLC now owns 823,407 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $90,622,000 after 
acquiring an additional 10,804 shares in the last quarter. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC grew its position in 
Ryanair by 9.5% in the third quarter. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $245,000 after acquiring an additional 193 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Bank of 
America Corp DE grew its position in Ryanair by 17.8% in the second quarter. Bank of America Corp DE now owns 
1,194,585 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $129,266,000 after acquiring an additional 180,625 
shares in the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
RYAAY has been the subject of several recent analyst reports. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reaffirmed a "neutral" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Peel Hunt raised shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating 
to a "buy" rating in a report on Friday, September 17th. Morgan Stanley reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. Finally, Raymond James 
decreased their price objective on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the 
company in a report on Monday. Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have 
issued a buy rating to the company's stock. Based on data from MarketBeat, the company presently has an 
average rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Baillie Gifford & Co. Acquires 264,133 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
NASDAQ:RYAAY[1] opened at $99.25 on Thursday. The company has a 50-day moving average of $112.21 and a 
200-day moving average of $110.55. The company has a market capitalization of $22.41 billion, a price-to-earnings 
ratio of -27.10 and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of 
$127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: Why is cost of goods sold important?[2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-cost-
of-goods-sold-cogs/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 2, 2021
End of Document
U.S. , EU, U.K. and Canada impose new sanctions on Belarus to keep pressure on Lukashenko
U.S., EU, U.K. and Canada impose new sanctions on Belarus to keep 
pressure on Lukashenko
Newstex Blogs 
Axios
December 2, 2021 Thursday 5:25 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 667 words
Byline: Jacob Knutson
Body
Dec 02, 2021( Axios: https://link.axios.com/join/am-signup?source=aci Delivered by Newstex)  
 The United States, European Union, United Kingdom and Canada imposed a new round of coordinated sanctions 
on Belarus "to raise the cost on Alyaksandr Lukashenko and his regime," Secretary of State Antony Blinken 
announced Thursday[1]. 
Why it matters: They are the first sanctions since EU officials accused Lukashenko of waging "hybrid warfare"[2] by 
allowing thousands of migrants to travel from the Middle East to Minsk and then forcing them to Poland's border. At 
least 12 migrants have died and thousands more have been caught in freezing temperatures along the Belarus-
Poland border, according to the New York Times[3]. What they're saying: "Today's actions demonstrate our 
unwavering determination to act in the face of a brutal regime that increasingly represses Belarusians, undermines 
the peace and security of Europe, and continues to abuse people seeking only to live in freedom," Blinken said in a 
statement. "These sanctions are also in response to the [Lukashenko] regime's callous exploitation of vulnerable 
migrants from other countries in order to orchestrate migrant smuggling along its border with EU states," he 
added.The sanctions apply to 20 individuals and 12 entities that "have enabled the regime's migrant smuggling into 
the European Union (EU), have taken part in the ongoing crackdown on human rights and democracy, and have 
propped up the regime financially," the Department of Treasury said[4]. The big picture: The U.S., EU, U.K., and 
Canada in June raised sanctions[5] on dozens of Belarusian individuals and entities in response to the 
government's forced diversion of a Ryanair flight over the summer and its ongoing crackdown against the country's 
pro-democracy movement. Thursday's sanctions are the third coordinated action[6] against Belarus this year and 
the fifth time the U.S. has imposed sanctions on Belarus since August 2020, White House press secretary Psaki 
said Thursday. Go deeper: Migrants freezing to death on EU frontier[7] 
 [ 1]: https://www.state.gov/accountability-for-the-lukashenka-regimes-continued-acts-of-repression-and-disregard-
for-international-norms/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.axios.com/poland-belarus-border-freezing-9633aeee-7fb8-4fe3-aca8-
56adc891a7c5.html [ 3]: https://www.nytimes.com/2021/12/01/world/europe/asylum-rights-poland-eu.html [ 4]: 
https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0512 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.axios.com/us-eu-uk-canada-sanction-
belarus-2096886e-1e20-4ec6-8d81-890dd84ee3bc.html [ 6]: https://www.axios.com/belarus-election-anniversary-
sanctions-6c0b9e5d-3def-413b-a451-72a1ff7b07f3.html [ 7]: https://www.axios.com/poland-belarus-border-freezing-
9633aeee-7fb8-4fe3-aca8-56adc891a7c5.html 
U.S. , EU, U.K. and Canada impose new sanctions on Belarus to keep pressure on Lukashenko
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 2, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings Logs Higher November Traffic
Ryanair Holdings Logs Higher November Traffic
MT Newswires Live Briefs
December 2, 2021 Thursday 5:11 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 41 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) on Thursday reported that passenger traffic rose to 10.2 million in November, up from 2 
million a year earlier. 
More than 62,300 flights were conducted during the month, with a load factor of 86%, according to a statement.
Load-Date: December 2, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair 's Traffic Soars Over Five Times In November
Ryanair's Traffic Soars Over Five Times In November
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
December 2, 2021 Thursday 3:04 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 78 words
Body
 Ryanair's (RY4C.IR, RYA.L) traffic in November totaled 10.2 million guests, up from 2 million guests in the year-
ago period. 
The Irish budget airline said Thursday that it operated over 62,300 flights in November with a load factor of 86%, 
compared with 62% a year ago. Meanwhile, the October traffic stood at 11.3 million guests with a load factor of 
84%.
Shares in Ryanair were up nearly 5% on Wednesday's close.
Price (GBP): £14.91, Change: £+0.68, Percent Change: +4.74%
Load-Date: December 2, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Nov. Load Factor Rises To 86% - Quick Facts
Ryanair Nov. Load Factor Rises To 86% - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
December 2, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2021 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 84 words
Byline: editorial@rttnews.com,  (RTT Staff Writer)
Body
       Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY), on Thursday, said its November 2021 traffic increased to 10.2 million 
guests, compared to 2.0 million guests for the prior year period. The Group's load factor was 86% compared to 
62%, a year ago. Ryanair Holdings plc operated over 62,300 flights in November.
 For the month of October 2021, the Group's traffic was 11.3 million guests with load factor of 84%. For the month 
of July 2021, the Group's traffic was 9.3 million guests with load factor of 80%.        
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
FTSE 100 Dips On Virus Worries
FTSE 100 Dips On Virus Worries
RTT News (United States)
December 2, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2021 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 198 words
Byline: editorial@rttnews.com,  (RTT Staff Writer)
Body
       U.K. stocks were moving lower on Thursday, with fears around the Omicron coronavirus variant and warnings 
about inflation from major central banks weighing on sentiment.
 The benchmark FTSE 100 dropped 38 points, or half a percent, to 7,130 after rising 1.6 percent on Wednesday.
 Miners Anglo American, Antofagasta and Glencore fell 1-2 percent after the OECD warned sluggish growth could 
be further derailed by the new Covid-19 variant.
 Chemicals and engineering firm Johnson Matthey gave up 1.7 percent and tech darling Darktrace tumbled 3.3 
percent after index manager FTSE Russell confirmed that the companies will be ousted from the FTSE 100 index.
 Oil & gas company Royal Dutch Shell rose about 1 percent after announcing the commencement of up to $1.5 
billion of share buybacks.
 Airline Wizz Air Holdings edged up slightly after data showed it carried more passengers in November than in the 
same month a year ago.
 Ryanair was also modestly higher after releasing November traffic figures.
 Electra Private Equity rallied 3.7 percent. The private equity investor said it would soon begin the process of 
moving from Britain's main stock market to the junior AIM market.        
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair carries fewer passengers in November but load factor rises
Ryanair carries fewer passengers in November but load factor rises
Alliance News UK
December 2, 2021 Thursday 09:02 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 Alliance News Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: Company Positive
Length: 200 words
Body
(Alliance News) - Ryanair Holdings PLC said Thursday it carried fewer passengers in November than in October, 
though still far more than year before, when more pandemic-related travel restrictions were in place.
Passenger traffic jumped to 10.2 million in November, after the Dublin-based low-cost airline carried just 2.0 million 
passengers a year ago. However, the figure was the lowest since July, when traffic was 9.3 million, having carried 
in excess of 11 million passengers in October. 
Ryanair operated over 62,300 flights in November with an 86% load factor, improved from 62% a year prior and 
from 84% in October.
Shares were up 0.1% at EUR14.95 in London early Thursday. 
Ryanair announced last month that it will de-list its shares from London. Trading volume has dropped due to post-
Brexit restrictions on UK share ownership. The cancellation will be effective from December 20, with the final day of 
dealing of its shares in London on December 17. 
Ryanair has a primary listing in the Euronext Dublin market and also has American depositary shares listed on the 
Nasdaq exchange in New York. 
By Tom Waite; thomaslwaite@alliancenews.com
Copyright 2021 Alliance News Limited. All Rights Reserved.
Load-Date: December 2, 2021
Ryanair carries fewer passengers in November but load factor rises
End of Document
Ryanair suspends flights with Morocco until February Criticises lack of clarity from Rabat on Covid restrictions
Ryanair suspends flights with Morocco until February; Criticises lack of 
clarity from Rabat on Covid restrictions
ANSA English Corporate Service
December 2, 2021 Thursday 6:38 PM CET
©Copyright 2021 ANSA All Rights Reserved
Length: 116 words
Body
(ANSAmed) - RABAT, DECEMBER 2 - Low-cost airline Ryanair announced the suspension of flights with Morocco 
until February 1, 2022, due to "the lack of clarity of the Moroccan authorities".
In a statement, the airline said Morocco's decision on 28 November to close its air borders for two weeks due to the 
new Omicron variant of Covid "has had an impact on 160,000 customers to date".
The Irish company said due to the "current climate of uncertainty", it decided to cancel all flights to Morocco until 
February, leaving suspended a further 230,000 passengers who had chosen Morocco as their destination.
Two other low-cost airlines, Easyjet and Transavia, have also cancelled all flights to Morocco.
Load-Date: December 2, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 2, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 152 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1228 41.80 1890.2 1073 - -2.03 1558.0 CompassX 1499 36.50 1721.63 18.06 - -64.89 
2505.1 Dalata Hotel 307.50 -17.50 414.50 272.00 - -11.74 0.2 easyJet 518.00 21.50 1095 6.81 - -1.71 6928.5 
FirstGrp 95.25 2.25 107.10 59.75 - 24.42 1519.3 Flutter Entertainment 10440 250.00 19680.8 9912 - -262.31 462.4 
Fuller A 680.00 24.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.79 17.6 Go-Ahead 689.50 25.50 1463 656.00 - -6.43 52.5 IntCon Htels 
Gp 4563 114.00 5568 4389 - -4504.44 1005.4 Intl Cons Air 131.76 4.30 222.10 1.55 - -1.36 44105.4 MandarO $ 
2.22 - 2.36 1.65 - -7.26 46.7 Marstons 68.80 3.80 105.50 59.35 - -1.05 8373.8 Natl Exp 220.20 6.60 413.50 206.70 
- -4.75 1036.6 PPHE Htl 1370 -10.00 1800 1175 - -6.09 0.6 Restaurt 85.80 6.10 140.00 52.56 - 9.02 3167.5 
Ryanair Holdings PLC 308.50 3.50 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.29 285.7 TUI 205.60 7.85 529.66 189.85 - -1.39 5168.5 
Whitbrd 2890 87.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.46 536.2
Load-Date: December 1, 2021
End of Document
European ADRs Move Sharply Higher in Wednesday Trading
European ADRs Move Sharply Higher in Wednesday Trading
MT Newswires Live Briefs
December 1, 2021 Wednesday 11:07 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 227 words
Body
 American depositary receipts of European stocks were trading 1.93% higher at 1,122.24 on the S&P/BNY Mellon 
Europe Select ADR Index on Wednesday.
In continental Europe, the gainers were led by biopharmaceutical company Cellectis (CLLS) and semiconductor 
company STMicroelectronics (STM), which rose 6.2% and 4.8% respectively. They were followed by 
biopharmaceutical company Genfit (GNFT) and steel and mining company ArcelorMittal (MT), which increased 
4.4% and 4.1%.
The decliners in continental Europe were led by biopharmaceutical company ERYTECH Pharma (ERYP) and 
biotech firm BioNTech (BNTX), which dropped 4.8% and 2.8% respectively. They were followed by biotech 
company Forward Pharma (FWP) and 3D printer company Materialise (MTLS). Which lost 2.6% and 1.4%.
In the UK and Ireland, the gainers were led by airline operator Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY), which rose 4%, followed 
by cruise line operator Carnival Corporation (CUK) and bank holding company Barclays PLC (BCS), which 
increased 3 each, and insurance firm Prudential (PUK), which was up 2.5%.
The decliners in the UK and Ireland were led by biopharmaceutical company Adaptimmune Therapeutics (ADAP) 
and educational publisher Pearson (PSO), which fell 4.8% and 1.9% respectively. They were followed by 
biopharmaceutical company NuCana (NCNA) and Trinity Biotech (TRIB), which were down 1.8% and 1.4%.
Load-Date: December 1, 2021
End of Document
Short Interest in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Increases By 63.6%
Short Interest in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Increases By 63.6%
American Banking and Market News
December 1, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 657 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) saw a large increase in short interest in the month of November. 
As of November 15th, there was short interest totalling 611,300 shares,  an increase of 63.6% from the October 
31st total of 373,700 shares. Currently, 0.3% of the company's shares are short sold. Based on an average daily 
trading volume, of 290,600 shares, the days-to-cover ratio is currently 2.1 days.  
•
Airline Stocks - Top Airline Stocks to Buy Now 
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of recent analyst reports. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating 
to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Monday, November 15th. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reaffirmed a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. UBS Group  reissued a "neutral" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Morgan Stanley  reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Raymond James cut their price objective on Ryanair from 
$140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a report on Monday. Five research analysts 
have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the company. Based on data from 
MarketBeat, Ryanair currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Shares of RYAAY stock  opened at $95.55 on Wednesday. Ryanair has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week 
high of $127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. 
The firm has a market capitalization of $21.57 billion, a P/E ratio of -27.14 and a beta of 1.56. The stock has a 50 
day moving average price of $112.52 and a 200 day moving average price of $110.65.  
Large investors have recently made changes to their positions in the company. Baillie Gifford & Co. grew its stake 
in  Ryanair by 2.5% during the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $1,186,170,000 after purchasing an additional 264,133 shares during the last quarter.  
Capital International Investors raised its holdings in  Ryanair by 3.1% in the 2nd quarter. Capital International 
Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,067,172,000 after purchasing 
an additional 294,131 shares during the period.  FMR LLC raised its holdings in  Ryanair by 1.4% in the 2nd 
quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $681,580,000 after 
purchasing an additional 87,015 shares during the period.  Lazard Asset Management LLC increased its stake in  
Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after buying an additional 296,366 shares in the last quarter.  
Finally, Janus Henderson Group PLC increased its stake in  Ryanair by 0.8% during the 3rd quarter. Janus 
Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $325,096,000 after 
buying an additional 23,924 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.91% of the 
company's stock.  
Short Interest in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Increases By 63.6%
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: Overweight 
This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order 
to provide readers with the fastest and most accurate reporting. This story was reviewed by MarketBeat's editorial 
team prior to publication. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com
Load-Date: December 1, 2021
End of Document
Short Interest in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Increases By 63.6%
Short Interest in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Increases By 63.6%
American Banking and Market News
December 1, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 593 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) saw a large increase in short interest in the month of November. 
As of November 15th, there was short interest totalling 611,300 shares,  an increase of 63.6% from the October 
31st total of 373,700 shares. Currently, 0.3% of the company's shares are short sold. Based on an average daily 
trading volume, of 290,600 shares, the days-to-cover ratio is currently 2.1 days.  
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of recent analyst reports. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating 
to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Monday, November 15th. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reaffirmed a "neutral" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. UBS Group  reissued a "neutral" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Morgan Stanley  reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Raymond James cut their price objective on Ryanair from 
$140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a report on Monday. Five research analysts 
have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the company. Based on data from 
MarketBeat, Ryanair currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.08. 
Shares of RYAAY stock  opened at $95.55 on Wednesday. Ryanair has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week 
high of $127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. 
The firm has a market capitalization of $21.57 billion, a P/E ratio of -27.14 and a beta of 1.56. The stock has a 50 
day moving average price of $112.52 and a 200 day moving average price of $110.65.  
Large investors have recently made changes to their positions in the company. Baillie Gifford & Co. grew its stake 
in  Ryanair by 2.5% during the 3rd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $1,186,170,000 after purchasing an additional 264,133 shares during the last quarter.  
Capital International Investors raised its holdings in  Ryanair by 3.1% in the 2nd quarter. Capital International 
Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,067,172,000 after purchasing 
an additional 294,131 shares during the period.  FMR LLC raised its holdings in  Ryanair by 1.4% in the 2nd 
quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $681,580,000 after 
purchasing an additional 87,015 shares during the period.  Lazard Asset Management LLC increased its stake in  
Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after buying an additional 296,366 shares in the last quarter.  
Finally, Janus Henderson Group PLC increased its stake in  Ryanair by 0.8% during the 3rd quarter. Janus 
Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $325,096,000 after 
buying an additional 23,924 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.91% of the 
company's stock.  
Short Interest in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Increases By 63.6%
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: Overweight 
Load-Date: December 1, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $95.55
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $95.55
American Banking and Market News
December 1, 2021 Wednesday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 499 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) gapped up before the market opened on Wednesday . The stock 
had previously closed at $95.55, but opened at $101.07. Ryanair shares last traded at $99.34, with a volume of 
4,436 shares.  
Several equities research analysts have weighed in on RYAAY shares. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  restated 
a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  restated 
a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Monday, November 15th. Credit Suisse Group  
reiterated an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Peel 
Hunt upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Five 
research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have assigned  a buy rating to the company's 
stock. According to data from MarketBeat, the company  has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average price 
target of $122.08. 
The firm has a market cap of $22.51 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -27.14 and a beta of 1.56. The company has 
a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The business has a 50 day simple 
moving average of $112.52 and a 200-day simple moving average of $110.65.  
A number of hedge funds have recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. WealthShield Partners LLC 
raised its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 638.2% in the 2nd quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after purchasing an additional 217 shares during the 
period.  Assetmark Inc. grew its stake in  Ryanair by 133.6% in the 3rd quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $30,000 after buying an additional 155 shares in the last 
quarter.  Advisory Services Network LLC purchased a new position in  Ryanair in the 2nd quarter valued at 
approximately $46,000.  JFS Wealth Advisors LLC purchased a new position in  Ryanair in the 3rd quarter valued 
at approximately $47,000.  Finally, Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. grew its stake in  Ryanair by 532.2% in 
the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $58,000 after buying an additional 463 shares in the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds 
own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY ) 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Up to $95.55
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: What is a put option? 
Load-Date: December 1, 2021
End of Document
Short Interest in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Increases By 63.6%
Short Interest in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Increases By 63.6%
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
December 1, 2021 Wednesday 11:11 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 791 words
Body
Dec 01, 2021( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) saw a large growth in short interest in the month of November. As of 
November 15th, there was short interest totalling 611,300 shares, a growth of 63.6% from the October 31st total of 
373,700 shares. Based on an average trading volume of 290,600 shares, the short-interest ratio is presently 2.1 
days. Currently, 0.3% of the shares of the stock are sold short.  
Several brokerages recently issued reports on RYAAY. Barclays reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Oddo Bhf cut shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. restated a "neutral" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. UBS Group restated a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Finally, Raymond James lowered their price 
target on shares of Ryanair from $140.00 to $138.00 and set an "outperform" rating for the company in a research 
report on Monday. Five analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and twelve have given a buy rating to the 
stock. Based on data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of 
$122.08. 
A number of hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently modified their holdings of the stock. 
WealthShield Partners LLC grew its position in shares of Ryanair by 638.2% during the 2nd quarter. WealthShield 
Partners LLC now owns 251 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after buying an additional 
217 shares during the period. Assetmark Inc. lifted its stake in Ryanair by 133.6% during the 3rd quarter. Assetmark 
Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $30,000 after acquiring an additional 155 
shares in the last quarter. Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 2nd 
quarter worth $46,000. JFS Wealth Advisors LLC bought a new stake in shares of Ryanair during the 3rd quarter 
worth $47,000. Finally, Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. raised its stake in shares of Ryanair by 532.2% during 
the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $58,000 after purchasing an additional 463 shares during the period. Institutional investors and hedge funds 
own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
RYAAY stock[1] opened at $95.55 on Wednesday. The stock has a market capitalization of $21.57 billion, a P/E 
ratio of -27.14 and a beta of 1.56. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-
equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of $127.25. The firm has a 50-day 
moving average price of $112.52 and a 200-day moving average price of $110.65.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Short Interest in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Increases By 63.6%
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: The primary rules of Elliott Wave theory[2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-
elliott-wave-theory/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 1, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair quits London Stock Exchange
Ryanair quits London Stock Exchange
AirFinance Journal
December 2021
Copyright 2021 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 157 words
Byline: Alex Derber
Body
Ryanair has delisted from the London Stock Exchange as planned following a mid-November announcement.
The Irish low-cost carrier retains its primary listing on Euronext Dublin.
Ryanair had previously cited low trading volumes not justifying the cost of the listing, and the desire to consolidate 
trading liquidity to one regulated market for the benefit of shareholders.
The delisting was effective from 20 December.
Ryanair's chief executive officer Michael O'Leary told analysts in November that a delisting was an "inevitability 
post-Brexit", with trading volumes through the London Stock Exchange "significantly diminished" compared with 
that of its primary Euronext listings in Dublin and Brussels.
O'Leary also pointed out that the European Commission is tightening scrutiny of whether European airlines are 
European Union (EU) majority owned and controlled, adding that airlines had to be seen taking steps to adhere to 
ownership regulations.
Load-Date: January 10, 2022
End of Document
Ryanair forecasts deeper net loss
Ryanair forecasts deeper net loss
AirFinance Journal
December 2021
Copyright 2021 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 176 words
Byline: Hugh Davies
Body
Ryanair has slashed its full-year guidance to a (EURO)250-450 million ($282-508 million) net loss from a previous 
range of (EURO)100-200 million on the back of new Covid-19 developments heading into the end of year holiday 
season.
The European low-cost airline group said the Omicron variant and recent government travel restrictions across 
Europe have weakened close-in holiday bookings.
Capacity has been cut by 33% for January, reducing its expected January traffic from approximately 10 million to 
between six and seven million for the month.
The carrier said the guidance is "hugely sensitive" to further Covid-19 developments, positive or negative, adding: 
"Ryanair hopes to have more clarity, especially on the impact of Omicron on intra Europe travel restrictions, in time 
for its Q3 results on 31 January next."
Ryanair's outlook was upgraded to stable from negative by Fitch Ratings in November due to easing travel 
restrictions and improved vaccination rates in Europe.
The carrier held unrestricted cash of (EURO)4.2 billion at the end of September.
Load-Date: January 10, 2022
End of Document
Boeing sees delivery boost in November
Boeing sees delivery boost in November
AirFinance Journal
December 2021
Copyright 2021 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 199 words
Byline: Hugh Davies
Body
Boeing delivered 34 aircraft to 16 customers in November compared with seven aircraft in the same month last 
year.
According to data from the US manufacturer, this includes 28 Boeing 737 Max aircraft, 10 of which were delivered 
to Ryanair and three each to Air Canada and Flydubai.
Lessors accounted for eight deliveries, with DAE Capital and SMBC Aviation Capital receiving three each and one 
going to Air Lease.
No new 787s were delivered last month, with only 14 787-9 and -10s handed over to customers this year, 
compared with 39 Airbus A350 family aircraft by the European manufacturer.
Boeing has delivered 302 aircraft so far in 2021, compared with 118 units delivered in the same period last year.
The OEM recorded 109 gross orders last month before cancellations and conversions, including an order for 72 737 
Max from Akasa Airlines recorded during the Dubai air show.
777 Partners placed an order for 30 additional 737 Max, with one delivery in November leaving 59 units remaining 
on order.
Six 737 Max are no longer listed as on order with Nok Air.
GECAS, whose acquisition by Aercap was completed on 1 November, still has four 787-10s listed as on order and 
60 737 Max, five fewer than October.
Load-Date: January 3, 2022
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
December 1, 2021 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 156 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1186.2 -30.20 1890.2 1073 - -1.96 2065.6 CompassX 1462.5 -59.50 1721.63 18.06 - -
63.31 7833.6 Dalata Hotel 325.00 14.00 414.50 272.00 - -12.41 0.0 easyJet 496.50 -6.10 1095 6.81 - -1.63 6096.5 
FirstGrp 93.00 -5.45 107.10 59.75 - 23.85 2761.7 Flutter Entertainment 10190 -135.00 19680.8 9912 - -256.03 
756.4 Fuller A 656.00 -44.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.51 123.6 Go-Ahead 664.00 -18.00 1463 656.50 - -6.19 131.2 
IntCon Htels Gp 4449 -151.00 5568 4389 - -4391.91 1215.9 Intl Cons Air 127.46 -3.54 222.10 1.55 - -1.32 53420.6 
MandarO $ 2.22 0.03 2.36 1.65 - -7.31 65.9 Marstons 65.00 -4.55 105.50 59.35 - -0.99 5009.1 Natl Exp 213.60 -
3.40 413.50 206.70 - -4.60 3690.1 PPHE Htl 1380 28.00 1800 1175 - -6.13 15.7 Restaurt 79.70 -1.80 140.00 52.56 
- 8.38 4570.1 Ryanair Holdings PLC 305.00 -4.00 338.60 250.00 1.08 51.69 448.8 TUI 197.75 -2.65 529.66 189.85 
- -1.34 5997.1 Whitbrd 2803 -72.00 3949.01 36.28 - -22.75 1374.1
Load-Date: November 30, 2021
End of Document
Airline Stock Roundup: Omicron-Related Updates Grab Headlines, RYAAY in Focus
Airline Stock Roundup: Omicron-Related Updates Grab Headlines, RYAAY in 
Focus
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
December 1, 2021 Wednesday 7:55 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1452 words
Byline: Maharathi Basu
Body
Dec 01, 2021( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 In the past week, news about the spread of the highly transmissible new COVID-19 variant (B.1.1529 strain) 
dominated headlines. First identified in South Africa, this new variant (Omicron) triggered fears of fresh travel curbs 
and dwindling air-travel demand. However, the two U.S. carriers, namely Delta Air Lines DAL[1] and United Airlines 
UAL[2], with direct flights to South Africa, decided not to adjust their schedule to South Africa. European carrier 
Ryanair Holdings RYAAY[3] also decided against canceling flights[4] in the wake of the new variant. An expansion-
related update was also available from Ryanair in the past week. 
Additionally, news on the alliance between American Airlines AAL[5] and JetBlue Airways JBLU[6] invited attention 
in the past week. 
Read the last Airline Roundup here[7] Recap of the Latest Top Stories 1 Following the detection of the new variant, 
the United States decided to suspend and restrict the entry of foreign nationals in the United States. However, the 
restriction will apply only to the passengers who visited South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, 
Mozambique, Malawi and Eswatini during a fortnight prior to their landing in the United States. However, Delta, 
which currently operates flights connecting Johannesburg with Atlanta (thrice a week), did not make any changes in 
its schedule as yet. We believe that DAL's current stance may change if the Omicron variant becomes more deadly 
and is found in more countries across the globe. 
2. United Airlines, like Delta, is also likely to be hit by the U.S. government's travel restrictions stemming from the 
detection of the Omicron mutant. UAL, currently carrying a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), operates non-stop flights 
connecting Johannesburg with Newark. UAL intends to start flights to Cape Town from today. Currently, UAL like 
DAL, did not have plans to tweak or trim the number of flights to South Africa due to the Omicron spread. However, 
any shift in the schedule cannot be ruled out in the coming days if the new strain worsens the situation at large. 
You can seethe complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here[8]. 
3. Ryanair announced plans to open a new base in Madeira, Portugal during summer 2022. This new base will 
widen RYAAY's connectivity, with 10 new routes linking Madeira with several European destinations, including 
mainland Portugal, throughout the year. With this, the carrier will offer more than 40 flights per week. The 10 new 
routes to Madeira, include Brussels Charleroi, Dublin, Lisbon, London Stansted Airport, Manchester, Marseille, 
Milan Bergamo, Nuremberg, Paris Beauvais and Porto[9]. 
Airline Stock Roundup: Omicron-Related Updates Grab Headlines, RYAAY in Focus
4. Per a Reuters report[10], the trial proceedings related to the lawsuit filed in September on antitrust grounds by 
the Justice Department (DOJ) and the officials in six states against the alliance between Jetblue and American 
airlines will begin on Sep 26, 2022. The court case alleges that the collaboration, which is already in operation, 
induces higher fares at the busy Northeastern U.S. airports. Consequently, the lawsuit demanded an end to the 
alliance. Performance The following table shows the price movement of the major airline players over the past week 
and during the last six months. 
Image Source: Zacks Investment Research 
The table above shows that most airline stocks have traded in the red over the past week, causing the NYSE ARCA 
Airline Index to decrease 7.7% to $78.53. Fears about the Omicron variant of the coronavirus induced this 
downside. Over the past six months, the NYSE ARCA Airline Index has depreciated 27%. What's Next in the Airline 
Space? November traffic reports by some carriers are expected in the coming days. 
 Zacks Names "Single Best Pick to Double" 
 From thousands of stocks, 5 Zacks experts each have chosen their favorite to skyrocket +100% or more in months 
to come. From those 5, Director of Research Sheraz Mian hand-picks one to have the most explosive upside of all. 
 You know this company from its past glory days, but few would expect that it's poised for a monster turnaround. 
Fresh from a successful repositioning and flush with A-list celeb endorsements, it could rival or surpass other recent 
Zacks' Stocks Set to Double like Boston Beer Company which shot up +143.0% in a little more than 9 months and 
Nvidia which boomed +175.9% in one year. Free: See Our Top Stock and 4 Runners Up  > >[11] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[12] Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[13] 
Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL): Free Stock Analysis Report[14] United Airlines Holdings Inc (UAL): Free Stock Analysis 
Report[15] JetBlue Airways Corporation (JBLU): Free Stock Analysis Report[16] American Airlines Group Inc. 
(AAL): Free Stock Analysis Report[17] To read this article on Zacks.com click here.[18] Zacks Investment 
Research[19] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/DAL 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/UAL 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY [ 4]: https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ryanair-ceo-says-omicron-
no-reason-cancel-flights-2021-11-29/?utm_medium=Social&utm_source=Twitter 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/AAL 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/JBLU 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1831577/airline-stock-roundup-2022-summer-schedule-from-ryaay-dal-alk-in-
focus?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID03-txt-1831577 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/buy-
list/?ADID=zp_1link&ICID=zpi%20_1link [ 9]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1831887/ryanair-ryaay-to-open-
new-base-in-madeira-add-10-new-routes?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID02-txt-1831887 
[ 
10]: 
https://www.reuters.com/business/aerospace-defense/trial-us-justice-dept-fight-with-american-airlines-set-sept-
2022-2021-11-29/ 
[ 
11]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/4e87?add=1590&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_1S2DREPORT_ANALYSTBLOG_213_IND_12012021&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-
1834100 
[ 
12]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1834100 
[ 
13]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1834100 [ 
14]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=DAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1834100 
[ 
15]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=UAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1834100 
[ 
16]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=JBLU&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
Airline Stock Roundup: Omicron-Related Updates Grab Headlines, RYAAY in Focus
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1834100 
[ 
17]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=AAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1834100 
[ 
18]: 
http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1834100/airline-stock-roundup-omicron-related-updates-grab-headlines-
ryaay-in-focus?cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1834100 [ 19]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: December 1, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 30, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 152 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1216.4 33.60 1890.2 1073 - -2.01 1695.2 CompassX 1522 68.50 1721.63 18.06 - -65.89 
5379.5 Dalata Hotel 311.00 6.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.88 6.6 easyJet 502.60 2.80 1095 6.81 - -1.65 8976.3 FirstGrp 
98.45 -4.45 107.10 59.75 - 25.24 1556.3 Flutter Entertainment 10325 25.00 19680.8 10200 - -259.42 461.9 Fuller A 
700.00 16.00 977.73 580.00 - -8.02 114.3 Go-Ahead 682.00 -9.50 1463 679.00 - -6.36 76.9 IntCon Htels Gp 4600 
20.00 5568 4389 - -4540.97 736.0 Intl Cons Air 131.00 -0.40 222.10 1.55 - -1.35 66382.4 MandarO $ 2.19 -0.04 
2.36 1.65 - -7.18 40.8 Marstons 69.55 -0.45 105.50 59.35 - -1.06 1794.8 Natl Exp 217.00 3.00 413.50 206.70 - -
4.68 1431.5 PPHE Htl 1352 2.00 1800 1175 - -6.01 11.4 Restaurt 81.50 3.90 140.00 52.56 - 8.57 5911.1 Ryanair 
Holdings PLC 309.00 - 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.37 294.2 TUI 200.40 1.90 532.80 189.85 - -1.35 8204.7 Whitbrd 
2875 38.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.34 702.8
Load-Date: November 29, 2021
End of Document
Flight Engine Erupts In Flames After Birds Strike Plane; Pilot Lands Aircraft Safely [Watch]
Flight Engine Erupts In Flames After Birds Strike Plane; Pilot Lands Aircraft 
Safely [Watch]
Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
November 29, 2021 Monday 1:50 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 697 words
Body
Nov 29, 2021( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 KEY POINTSVideo of the incident showed flames erupting from one of the enginesThe plane's right engine was 
significantly damaged during the strikePassengers and crew onboard did not suffer and injuries A plane headed to 
Italy managed to land safely after a huge flock of birds damaged parts of the engine when they hit it. 
The Malta Air Boeing 737-800, operated by Ryanair, was flying from London to Bologna on Nov. 24.  
When the flight neared the Bologna airport, a flock of birds -- believed to be herons or docks -- slammed into the 
plane. A video of the incident, caught from the ground, showed flames erupting from at least one engine as the 
plane glided onto the runway. 
An image of the flight showed bird guts and carcasses all over the front windscreen, blocking the pilot's view. Some 
of the birds also got stuck on the plane's wing flaps, and a few were sucked into the right enginein the 
inflow.Despite the terrifying incident, the plane managed to land safely and no injuries onboard the flight was 
reported. 
However, the plane's right engine was significantly damaged during the strike andsuffered a compressor stall, 
Aviation 24 reported[1].  
The plane has been grounded in Italy, and the investigators were checking the damages to determine if it can fly 
again safely, according to LadBible[2]. 
Last month, another Ryanair flight scheduled to fly from Manchester, U.K., to the Canary Islands had to make an 
emergency landing in Liverpool after abird strike. Passengers on the flight told Manchester Evening News[3]they 
heard "two loud" bangs after the flight took off from Manchester. The plane made an emergency landing an hour 
later and passengers were safely evacuated by the emergency crew. No one on board suffered any 
injuries.Ryanair's spokesperson confirmed the bird strike in a statement. "The aircraft landed normally, and 
customers were transferred to a replacement aircraft...Ryanair sincerely apologised to all affected customers," the 
statement said, according to the Evening News. 
A Spirit airline flight set to fly from Atlantic City to Fort Lauderdale in April[4]caught on fire after a bird flew into one 
of the engines as it prepared to take off. The strike caused significant damage to the plane. With travel restrictions 
easing, Ryanair earlier this month announced plans to hire more than 2,000 pilots Photo: AFP / Tobias Schwarz 
Flight Engine Erupts In Flames After Birds Strike Plane; Pilot Lands Aircraft Safely [Watch]
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.aviation24.be/airlines/ryanair/malta-air-boeing-737-800-suffers-bird-strike-during-approach-
bologna-airport/ [ 2]: https://www.ladbible.com/news/viral-stowaway-found-hiding-inside-landing-gear-of-american-
airlines-plane-20211128 [ 3]: https://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/greater-manchester-news/ryanair-
flight-manchester-bird-strike-21843740 [ 4]: https://www.ibtimes.com/spirit-airlines-aircraft-catches-fire-new-jersey-
after-bird-flies-engine-3308822 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 29, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) PT Lowered to $138.00 at Raymond James
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) PT Lowered to $138.00 at Raymond James
American Banking and Market News
November 29, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 570 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) had its price objective cut by research analysts at Raymond James  from 
$140.00 to $138.00 in a report issued on Monday, Benzinga  reports. The firm currently has an "outperform" rating 
on the transportation company's stock. Raymond James' target price would indicate a potential upside of 38.00% 
from the stock's current price. 
Several other equities analysts also recently issued reports on the company. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  
reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Morgan Stanley  
restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Credit Suisse 
Group  reiterated an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 
25th. Finally, Peel Hunt upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, 
September 17th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued  a buy 
rating to the stock. According to data from MarketBeat, the stock presently has an average rating of "Buy" and a 
consensus target price of $122.08. 
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $100.00 on Monday. The firm has a market capitalization of $22.58 billion, a PE ratio 
of -28.41 and a beta of 1.56. The stock has a 50 day moving average of $113.17 and a 200-day moving average of 
$110.91. Ryanair has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of $127.25. The company has a current ratio of 
1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
Several hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently bought and sold shares of the company. Geode 
Capital Management LLC boosted its stake in  Ryanair by 3.0% in the second quarter. Geode Capital Management 
LLC now owns 98,369 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $10,644,000 after acquiring an 
additional 2,890 shares during the last quarter.  Plaisance Capital LLC bought a new position in shares of  Ryanair 
during the second quarter worth $2,857,000.  Harbor Investment Advisory LLC lifted its position in  Ryanair by 9.5% 
in the 3rd quarter. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $245,000 after acquiring an additional 193 shares in the last quarter.  Lazard Asset Management LLC 
boosted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now 
owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after buying an additional 
296,366 shares during the period.  Finally, Manning & Napier Group LLC boosted its holdings in  Ryanair by 0.3% 
in the 2nd quarter. Manning & Napier Group LLC now owns 812,603 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $87,930,000 after purchasing an additional 2,317 shares during the period. 43.91% of the stock is owned 
by institutional investors.  
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) PT Lowered to $138.00 at Raymond James
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: Index Funds 
Load-Date: November 29, 2021
End of Document
Raymond James Adjusts Ryanair Holdings' Price Target to $138 from $140, Keeps Outperform Rating
Raymond James Adjusts Ryanair Holdings' Price Target to $138 from $140, 
Keeps Outperform Rating
MT Newswires Live Briefs
November 29, 2021 Monday 9:44 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 43 words
Body
 (MT Newswires covers equity, commodity and economic research from major banks and research firms in North 
America, Asia and Europe. Research providers may contact us here: https://www.mtnewswires.com/contact-us)
Price: 101.92, Change: +1.92, Percent Change: +1.92
Load-Date: November 29, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Flights To Continue Amid Increasing New COVID-19 Variant Threat
Ryanair Flights To Continue Amid Increasing New COVID-19 Variant Threat
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
November 29, 2021 Monday 11:29 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 90 words
Body
 Ryanair (RY4C.IR, RYA.L) is not going to cancel flights even as the new omicron variant of COVID-19 is spreading 
fast, Reuters reported Monday, citing chief Executive Micheal O'Leary. 
He said that he does not see any reason to cancel flights for vaccinated people or those with negative tests and that 
the omicron variant is not a concern so far. 
However, O'Leary is worried that some countries may temporarily halt air travel. 
Shares of the airline were up 4% on Monday afternoon. 
Price (GBP): £14.57, Change: £+0.53, Percent Change: +3.81%
Load-Date: November 29, 2021
End of Document
Anxiety Attack On The Financial Markets Shows Some Signs Of Alleviating
Anxiety Attack On The Financial Markets Shows Some Signs Of Alleviating
Newstex Blogs 
ValueWalk
November 29, 2021 Monday 9:20 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1115 words
Body
Nov 29, 2021( ValueWalk: https://www.valuewalk.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 sergeitokmakov[1] / Pixabay 
'The anxiety attack on the financial markets shows signs of alleviating, as investors[2] pause for breath and spot 
signs of optimism while scientists race to establish the severity of the new variant. The FTSE 100[3] opened up 1% 
in early trading, recovering some of Friday's dramatic losses and the FTSE 250 was 1.5% higher. 
Get Our Activist Investing Case Study! 
 Get the entire 10-part series on our in-depth study on activist investing in PDF. Save it to your desktop, read it on 
your tablet, or print it out to read anywhere! Sign up below! 
 Q3 2021 hedge fund letters, conferences and more[4] 
DG Value: Targeting Overlooked Opportunities In The Middle Market 
 Founded in 2007 by Dov Gertzulin, DG Value is a value-focused investment firm. The firm runs two primary 
investment strategies, the diversified DG Value Funds and the concentrated DG Concentrated strategy. Q3 2021 
hedge fund letters, conferences and more The flagship DG Value Fund was launched in 2007, specializing in 
middle-market distressed situations and event-driven Read More[5] Omicron's Impact On The Financial Markets 
Amid the doom which took hold as doors were slammed shut on travel routes from Africa and increased restrictions 
were imposed, there are glimmers of hope. There are reports from doctors in South Africa that Omicron[6] 
infections don't seem more severe and the World Health Organisation's appeal for caution also appears to have 
calmed some nerves. It has observed that although there appears to be increasing rates of hospitalisation, that may 
be due to higher numbers being infected rather than due to its specific strain. 
 This has helped ease concerns that global trade will be severely dented if the new variant takes hold, which saw 
the steepest falls in the oil price in 18 months on Friday. A barrel of Brent crude has rebounded a little, rising by 
4.5% initially but then falling back, hovering around $75 a barrel. The slight recovery in the oil price has helped BP 
plc[7] (LON:BP) and Royal Dutch Shell plc (NYSE:RDS.B) which opened higher. After nosediving on Friday, British 
Airways owner IAG, has edged back upwards, up by more than 3% in early trading, amid hopes that travel 
Anxiety Attack On The Financial Markets Shows Some Signs Of Alleviating
restrictions will be limited to those rolled out over the weekend, until more is known about the virus. EasyJet and 
Ryanair have also caught a ride upwards, rising by around 2%. 
 On the FTSE 250 the companies showing the steepest recovery were those re-opening stocks which saw some of 
the sharpest declines as fears took hold on Friday. WH Smith Plc (LON:SMWH) which has become hugely reliant 
on sales across its outlets across the travel network jumped by 5.7% while the Restaurant Group PLC (LON:RTN) 
was up by 4.7% in early trade, closely followed by Carnival plc (LON:CCL), up by 4.6%. News of queues at 
vaccination sites, with demand for booster jabs high has helped with the relief wave amid hopes the fully vaccinated 
will have more confidence to keep travelling, eating out and booking cruises next year. But still, this is not a 
complete snap back, worries remain that demand will be more subdued that expected, and patience is going to be 
the name of the game until more is known about the trajectory of this strain. 
BT Group Tops FTSE 100 Leader Board 
Topping the FTSE 100 leader board is BT Group[8] (LON:BT.A), amid reports that India's Reliance Industries is 
considering a bid for the company. Talks are believed to be in their early stages, but Reliance is considered to be 
keen to get at least a foothold in the telecoms company. It's clearly interested in BT's future growth plans with its 
focus on profiting from the roll out of fibre broadband and 5G. News that the Indian conglomerate Tata Chemicals is 
in talks to buy the battery materials business put up for sale by Johnson Matthey PLC (LON:JMAT) has also sent 
shares in the FTSE 100 listed company higher. The price tag rumoured to be attached to the potential bid of 
between $500 and $700 million is clearly seen as attractive as it would give the company more financial firepower 
to expand its presence in hydrogen technologies. 
 It's a wait and see mood on the markets today, as speculation swirls about possible takeovers and investors stay 
on high alert for any fresh detail about Omicron and its potential impact for the direction of the pandemic." 
 Article by Susannah Streeter, senior investment and markets analyst Hargreaves Lansdown 
About Hargreaves Lansdown 
Over 1.67 million clients trust us with 138.0 billion (as at 30 September 2021), making us the UK's number one 
platform for private investors. More than 98% of client activity is done through our digital channels and over 600,000 
access our mobile app each month. 
 Updated on Nov 29, 2021, 4:20 pm 
 [ 
1]: 
https://pixabay.com/users/sergeitokmakov/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.valuewalk.com/value-investing/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.valuewalk.com/ftse-100-gains-ground-even-though-the-engine-of-recovery-splutters/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://valuewalkpremium.com/q3-2021-hedge-fund-letters/ [ 5]: https://valuewalkpremium.com/dg-value-targeting-
overlooked-opportunities-in-the-middle-market/ [ 6]: https://www.valuewalk.com/moderna-ceo-could-take-weeks-for-
more-clarity-on-omicron-covid-variant/ [ 7]: https://www.valuewalk.com/bp-bumper-returns-but-possibly-too-much-
too-soon/ [ 8]: https://www.valuewalk.com/bt-groups-q1-underlying-revenue-falls-by-3/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 29, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 29, 2021 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 21
Length: 159 words
Body
Carnival 1182.8 -226.00 1890.2 1073 - -1.96 6096.3   CompassX 1453.5 -130.50 1721.63 18.06 - -62.92 5925.9   
Dalata Hotel 305.00 -27.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.65 85.8   easyJet 499.80 -64.60 1095 6.81 - -1.65 20018.8   
FirstGrp 102.90 0.50 104.00 59.75 - 26.38 3822.9   Flutter Entertainment 10300 -615.00 19680.8 10200 - -258.79 
1119.8   Fuller A 684.00 - 977.73 580.00 - -7.83 74.1   Go-Ahead 691.50 -45.00 1463 680.00 - -6.45 100.4   IntCon 
Htels Gp 4580 -462.00 46170 4389 - -4521.22 1241.6   Intl Cons Air 131.40 -22.92 222.10 2.06 - -1.36 177520.5   
MandarO $ 2.23 -0.01 2.36 1.65 - -7.29 0.8   Marstons 70.00 -6.15 105.50 59.35 - -1.06 5185.9   Natl Exp 214.00 -
12.60 413.50 206.70 - -4.61 2464.8   PPHE Htl 1350 -14.00 1800 1175 - -6.00 21.2   Restaurt 77.60 -7.40 140.00 
52.56 - 8.16 2917.8   Ryanair Holdings PLC 309.00 -4.00 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.37 416.8   TUI 198.50 -23.30 
532.80 189.85 - -1.34 16514.0   Whitbrd 2837 -271.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.03
Load-Date: November 28, 2021
End of Document
29 November 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
29 November 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
Newstex Blogs 
AirInsight
November 29, 2021 Monday 11:11 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 672 words
Byline: Addison Schonland
Body
Nov 29, 2021( AirInsight: http://airinsight.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Welcome to Morning Call for 29 November 2021, and the Top Aviation News Stories for today. You can also 
search 
our 
archives[1] 
for 
older 
news 
stories 
by 
date. 
AirInsight 
US 
Airline 
Index 
https://i0.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Traffic-thru-27Nov21.jpg?ssl=1 
https://i0.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Table-thru-25-Nov-21.jpg?ssl=1 
 https://i2.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Graph-thru-25Nov21.jpg?ssl=1 
Commercial Aviation 
737 Max: Boeing refutes new safety concerns - BBC[2] Kawasaki Hydrogen Aircraft Core Technology Development 
Project - Kawasaki[3] Kenya Has Auctioned 73 Deserted Aircraft - InterestingEngineering[4] United, American 
CEOs Say They Face a Regional Pilot Crunch - AirlineWeekly[5] 
 Business Aviation 
 Bombardier's New Challenger 3500 Jet Comes With 'Zero-Gravity' Seating - RobbReport[6] 
 Airlines 
Latam Air Reaches Bankruptcy Deal That Hands Reins to Creditors - Yahoo[7] South Africa Omicron Travel Ban - 
NYT[8] Stowaway in plane's landing gear on a flight from Guatemala to Miami - USAToday[9] Ryanair chief cites 
'Brexit disaster as UK airline recovery lags mainland Europe - FlightGlobal[10] IATA Calls For International Entry 
Requirements To Be Simplified For Travelers - Traveloffpath[11] 
 Urban Air Mobility 
 Air taxi developer Volocopter said to cancel SPAC plans - eVTOL[12] 
 Social Media 
 Uganda Airlines staff suspended for allowing a grasshopper vendor onboard - Twitter[13] 
Please follow and like us: 
 [ 
1]: 
https://airinsight.com/?s=morning+call&et_pb_searchform_submit=et_search_proccess&et_pb_include_posts=yes [ 
2]: 
https://www.bbc.com/news/business-59420570 
[ 
3]: 
https://global.kawasaki.com/en/corp/newsroom/news/detail/?f=20211105_3638 
[ 
4]: 
29 November 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
https://interestingengineering.com/kenya-auctioned-73-deserted-aircraft-a-boeing-707-for-2500 
[ 
5]: 
https://airlineweekly.com/2021/11/united-american-ceos-say-they-face-a-regional-pilot-crunch/ 
[ 
6]: 
https://robbreport.com/motors/aviation/bombardier-challenger-3500-1234648492/ 
[ 
7]: 
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/latam-air-reaches-bankruptcy-deal-032104497.html 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.nytimes.com/2021/11/26/world/africa/south-africa-omicron-travel-ban.html 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2021/11/27/guatemala-escape-man-hides-landing-gear-flight-
miami/8777729002/ [ 10]: https://www.flightglobal.com/networks/ryanair-chief-cites-brexit-disaster-as-uk-airline-
recovery-lags-mainland-europe/146574.article [ 11]: https://www.traveloffpath.com/iata-calls-for-international-entry-
requirements-to-be-simplified-for-travelers/ [ 12]: https://evtol.com/news/air-taxi-developer-volocopter-cancels-spac-
plans/ [ 13]: https://twitter.com/Sudhirntv/status/1464526665015599104 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 29, 2021
End of Document
Airline Stocks Plummet in Friday's Trading: Here's Why
Airline Stocks Plummet in Friday's Trading: Here's Why
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
November 29, 2021 Monday 8:05 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1322 words
Byline: Maharathi Basu
Body
Nov 29, 2021( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 The aviation space started on a positive note this year after being battered in 2020 by the coronavirus-led 
dwindling passenger revenues. The airline stocks have been performing rather well in 2021. However, news about 
the spread of the highly transmissible new COVID-19 variant (B.1.1529 strain) is a dampener. The new strain 
(Omicron) — first identified in South Africa — induced fears of fresh travel curbs and the air-travel demand curve 
again going down. 
Adding to the woes, airline stocks faltered on Friday Nov 26, 2021, causing the NYSE ARCA Airline Index to decline 
6.5%. Stocks like Delta Air Lines DAL[1], United Airlines UAL[2] and Ryanair Holdings RYAAY[3] decreased 8.3%, 
9.6% and 3.7%, respectively, on Nov 26 from Nov 25's closing. 
Following the detection of the new variant, the United States decided to suspend and restrict the entry of foreign 
nationals in the United States. However, the restriction will apply only to the passengers who visited South Africa, 
Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, Malawi and Eswatini during a fortnight prior to their landing 
in the United States. 
However, Delta, which currently operates flights connecting Johannesburg with Atlanta (thrice a week), did not 
make any changes in its schedule as yet. We believe that DAL's current stance may change if the Omicron variant 
becomes more of a threat and is found in more countries across the globe. Besides, DAL, currently carrying a 
Zacks Rank #4 (Sell), announced that those among its passengers who need to alter their travel plans (through Dec 
31, 2021) may do so without paying any change fees. 
The United Airlines like Delta, is also likely to be hit by the U.S. government's travel restrictions stemming from the 
detection of the Omicron variant. The United Airlines and DAL are reportedly[4] the only two U.S.-based carriers 
currently serving South Africa. UAL, currently carrying a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), operates non-stop flights connecting 
Johannesburg with Newark. 
You can seethe complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here[5]. 
United Airlines intends to start flights to Cape Town from Dec 1. Currently, UAL like DAL did not make any 
announcements of plans to tweak or reduce flights to South Africa due to the Omicron spread. However, any 
change in schedule cannot be ruled out in the coming days if the new variant becomes more of a hindrance. In the 
event of such an unfortunate scenario materializing, passenger revenues at UAL that increased more than 300% 
year over year in the third quarter of 2021, may take a beating in the December quarter. 
Airline Stocks Plummet in Friday's Trading: Here's Why
With COVID-19 cases surging in Europe, European carrier Ryanair Holdings, currently carrying a Zacks Rank #4 
(Sell), is naturally feeling the heat. In fact, RYAAY's CEO Michael O'Learyreportedly[6]warned that following the 
renewed surge in COVID-19 cases in Europe, Christmas travel and early bookings for summer are likely to be 
disrupted. Last week, he was quoted saying, 'I think it's inevitable we will undermine confidence between now and 
Christmas, and that will disrupt Christmas and also unsettle people between Christmas and New Year when they 
would normally start booking their summer holidays." 
The detection of quite a few cases pertaining to the Omicron variant in the UK is likely to serve as a further 
dampener for the Ireland-based Ryanair. In fact, Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced that people arriving in 
the UK will be required to undergo a PCR test (within the second day of their arrival) and self-isolate until a negative 
result is available. There are apprehensions that the spread of the Omicron variant is likely to hurt the recently 
witnessed increase in air traffic at RYAAY. Stay tuned for further updates on the highly contagious Omicron strain 
and the resultant impact on air-travel demand. 
 Investor Alert: Legal Marijuana Looking for big gains? 
 Now is the time to get in on a young industry primed to skyrocket from $13.5 billion in 2021 to an expected $70.6 
billion by 2028. 
 After a clean sweep of 6 election referendums in 5 states, pot is now legal in 36 states plus D.C. Federal 
legalization is expected soon and that could kick start an even greater bonanza for investors. Zacks Investment 
Research has recently closed pot stocks that have shot up as high as +147.0% 
 You're invited to immediately check out Zacks' Marijuana Moneymakers: An Investor's Guide. It features a timely 
Watch List of pot stocks and ETFs with exceptional growth potential. Today, Download Marijuana Moneymakers 
FREE  > >[7] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[8] Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[9] 
Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL): Free Stock Analysis Report[10] United Airlines Holdings Inc (UAL): Free Stock Analysis 
Report[11] To read this article on Zacks.com click here.[12] Zacks Investment Research[13] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/DAL 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/UAL 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.businessinsider.in/thelife/news/united-and-deltas-
flights-to-south-africa-will-be-impacted-by-new-travel-restrictions-that-throw-a-wrench-in-the-recovery-of-
international-travel/articleshow/87940445.cms 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/buy-
list/?ADID=zp_1link&ICID=zpi%20_1link 
[ 
6]: 
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ryanair-ceo-sees-fraught-end-
143304292.html 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/4e87?add=1652&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_MARIJUANAREPORT_ANALYSTBLOG_216_IND_11292021&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-
analyst_blog%7Cindustry_focus-1833009 
[ 
8]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_216&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cindustry_focus-1833009 
[ 
9]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_216&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cindustry_focus-1833009 [ 
10]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=DAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_216&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cindustry_focus-1833009 
[ 
11]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=UAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_216&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cindustry_focus-1833009 
[ 
12]: 
http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1833009/airline-stocks-plummet-in-friday-s-trading-here-s-why?cid=CS-
NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cindustry_focus-1833009 [ 13]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
Airline Stocks Plummet in Friday's Trading: Here's Why
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 29, 2021
End of Document
Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC Has $12.68 Million Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC Has $12.68 Million Stock Position in 
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Watchlist News
November 27, 2021 Saturday 11:35 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 954 words
Body
Nov 27, 2021( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC trimmed its position in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 0.4% in the 
second quarter, according to the company in its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities & Exchange 
Commission. The firm owned 117,144 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 501 shares during 
the quarter. Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $12,676,000 as of its most recent 
SEC filing.  
 A number of other hedge funds have also recently made changes to their positions in the stock. Baillie Gifford & 
Co. increased its position in Ryanair by 1.3% in the second quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,513,341 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,137,649,000 after purchasing an additional 140,012 shares 
during the period. Capital International Investors increased its position in Ryanair by 3.1% in the second quarter. 
Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares during the period. FMR LLC increased its position in 
Ryanair by 1.4% in the second quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $681,580,000 after purchasing an additional 87,015 shares during the period. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC increased its position in Ryanair by 6.3% in the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after purchasing an 
additional 296,366 shares during the period. Finally, William Blair Investment Management LLC grew its position in 
shares of Ryanair by 14.3% during the 2nd quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 
2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $243,862,000 after buying an additional 281,774 
shares during the period. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
RYAAY has been the subject of several analyst reports. Barclays restated an 'overweight' rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Morgan Stanley restated an 'overweight' rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Credit Suisse Group restated an 'outperform' rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Oddo Bhf lowered Ryanair from an 'outperform' 
rating to a 'neutral' rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Finally, Deutsche Bank 
Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC Has $12.68 Million Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ 
:RYAAY)
Aktiengesellschaft restated a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Five 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned a buy rating to the company's stock. 
According to data from MarketBeat, the company has a consensus rating of 'Buy' and an average price target of 
$122.48. 
 NASDAQ:RYAAY[1] opened at $100.00 on Friday. The stock has a market capitalization of $22.58 billion, a PE 
ratio of -28.41 and a beta of 1.56. The business's 50-day simple moving average is $113.17 and its 200-day simple 
moving average is $111.01. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio 
of 1.34. Ryanair Holdings plc has a fifty-two week low of $94.68 and a fifty-two week high of $127.25.  
About Ryanair 
 Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
 See Also: Hedge Funds Explained [2] 
 Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Receive News & Ratings for Ryanair Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[4]. 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/hedge-
funds-how-they-work-investors/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY&c=Ryanair 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 27, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Position Cut by Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Stock Position Cut by Parametric 
Portfolio Associates LLC
American Banking and Market News
November 27, 2021 Saturday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 674 words
Body
Ryanair Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC lessened its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
0.4% in the second quarter, according to its most recent filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The 
institutional investor  owned 117,144 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 501 shares during 
the period. Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC owned 0.05% of Ryanair worth $12,676,000 at the end of the most 
recent quarter.  
A number of other institutional investors and hedge funds also recently made changes to their positions in the stock. 
Baillie Gifford & Co. boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 1.3% during the 2nd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. 
now owns 10,513,341 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,137,649,000 after purchasing an 
additional 140,012 shares in the last quarter.  Capital International Investors boosted its position in shares of  
Ryanair by 3.1% during the 2nd quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares in the last 
quarter.  FMR LLC boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 1.4% during the 2nd quarter. FMR LLC now owns 
6,298,681 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $681,580,000 after purchasing an additional 
87,015 shares in the last quarter.  Lazard Asset Management LLC boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 
6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, 
William Blair Investment Management LLC boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 14.3% during the 2nd 
quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $243,862,000 after purchasing an additional 281,774 shares in the last quarter. Hedge funds and 
other institutional investors own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $100.00 on Friday. The stock's 50 day moving average price is $113.17 and its 200 
day moving average price is $111.01. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of 
$127.25. The company has a market capitalization of $22.58 billion, a P/E ratio of -28.41 and a beta of 1.56. The 
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34.  
A number of analysts have commented on RYAAY shares. Oddo Bhf lowered shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Monday, November 15th. Deutsche Bank 
Aktiengesellschaft  reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. 
Credit Suisse Group  reaffirmed an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Position Cut by Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC
September 17th. UBS Group  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, 
September 28th. Finally, Raymond James upped their price objective on shares of Ryanair from $135.00 to 
$140.00 and gave the company an "outperform" rating in a research note on Thursday, October 7th. Five research 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned  a buy rating to the stock. Based on 
data from MarketBeat.com, the stock currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of 
$122.48. 
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: What is dollar cost averaging (DCA)? 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: November 27, 2021
End of Document
Brokerages Set Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) PT at $132.75
Brokerages Set Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) PT at $132.75
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
November 27, 2021 Saturday 8:11 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 795 words
Body
Nov 27, 2021( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have earned a consensus recommendation of "Buy" from the 
nineteen analysts that are covering the company, Marketbeat Ratings[1] reports. Five equities research analysts 
have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued a buy rating on the company. The average 1 year 
target price among brokers that have issued ratings on the stock in the last year is $132.75.  
A number of research analysts have commented on the stock. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded shares of Ryanair 
from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. Deutsche 
Bank Aktiengesellschaft reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 
17th. Credit Suisse Group reiterated an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, 
September 17th. Peel Hunt upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on 
Friday, September 17th. Finally, Barclays restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report 
on Tuesday, November 2nd. 
Shares of RYAAY stock[2] traded down $3.80 during mid-day trading on Monday, hitting $100.00. 507,747 shares 
of the stock were exchanged, compared to its average volume of 327,556. The company has a market cap of 
$22.58 billion, a PE ratio of -28.41 and a beta of 1.56. The firm has a fifty day moving average of $113.17 and a 200 
day moving average of $111.01. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity 
ratio of 0.96. Ryanair has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week high of $127.25.  
Institutional investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the business. Geode Capital Management 
LLC grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 3.0% in the 2nd quarter. Geode Capital Management LLC now owns 
98,369 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $10,644,000 after purchasing an additional 2,890 shares 
during the last quarter. Optiver Holding B.V. acquired a new position in shares of Ryanair in the 1st quarter worth 
approximately $13,878,000. Plaisance Capital LLC acquired a new position in shares of Ryanair in the 2nd quarter 
worth approximately $2,857,000. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 9.5% in 
the 3rd quarter. Harbor Investment Advisory LLC now owns 2,227 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $245,000 after purchasing an additional 193 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Lazard Asset 
Management LLC grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 6.3% in the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after purchasing an 
additional 296,366 shares during the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other 
institutional investors.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Brokerages Set Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) PT at $132.75
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: Insider Trading - What You Need to Know[3] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/insider-trades/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 27, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Position Cut by Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Stock Position Cut by Parametric 
Portfolio Associates LLC
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
November 27, 2021 Saturday 12:11 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 924 words
Body
Nov 27, 2021( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC lessened its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 0.4% in the 
second quarter, according to its most recent filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The institutional 
investor owned 117,144 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 501 shares during the period. 
Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC owned 0.05% of Ryanair worth $12,676,000 at the end of the most recent 
quarter.  
A number of other institutional investors and hedge funds also recently made changes to their positions in the stock. 
Baillie Gifford & Co. boosted its position in shares of Ryanair by 1.3% during the 2nd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. 
now owns 10,513,341 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,137,649,000 after purchasing an 
additional 140,012 shares in the last quarter. Capital International Investors boosted its position in shares of 
Ryanair by 3.1% during the 2nd quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares in the last 
quarter. FMR LLC boosted its position in shares of Ryanair by 1.4% during the 2nd quarter. FMR LLC now owns 
6,298,681 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $681,580,000 after purchasing an additional 
87,015 shares in the last quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC boosted its position in shares of Ryanair by 6.3% 
during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares in the last quarter. Finally, 
William Blair Investment Management LLC boosted its position in shares of Ryanair by 14.3% during the 2nd 
quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's 
stock valued at $243,862,000 after purchasing an additional 281,774 shares in the last quarter. Hedge funds and 
other institutional investors own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY[1] opened at $100.00 on Friday. The stock's 50 day moving average price is $113.17 and its 200 
day moving average price is $111.01. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of 
$127.25. The company has a market capitalization of $22.58 billion, a P/E ratio of -28.41 and a beta of 1.56. The 
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34.  
A number of analysts have commented on RYAAY shares. Oddo Bhf lowered shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research note on Monday, November 15th. Deutsche Bank 
Aktiengesellschaft reaffirmed a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Position Cut by Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC
Credit Suisse Group reaffirmed an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, 
September 17th. UBS Group reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, 
September 28th. Finally, Raymond James upped their price objective on shares of Ryanair from $135.00 to 
$140.00 and gave the company an "outperform" rating in a research note on Thursday, October 7th. Five research 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned a buy rating to the stock. Based on data 
from MarketBeat.com, the stock currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.48. 
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: What is dollar cost averaging (DCA)?[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-
dollar-cost-averaging/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 27, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 27, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 27
Length: 152 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1182.8 -226.00 1890.2 1073 - -1.96 5260.0 CompassX 1453.5 -130.50 1721.63 18.06 - -
62.92 5327.8 Dalata Hote305.00 -27.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.65 14.5 easyJet 499.80 -64.60 1095 6.81 - -1.65 
18712.5 FirstGrp 102.90 0.50 104.00 59.75 - 26.38 3413.3 Flutter Ent10300 -615.00 19680.8 10200 - -258.79 
991.4 Fuller A 684.00 - 977.73 580.00 - -7.83 67.9 Go-Ahead 691.50 -45.00 1463 680.00 - -6.45 96.6 IntCon 
Htel4580 -462.00 46170 4389 - -4521.22 973.3 Intl Cons A131.40 -22.92 222.10 2.06 - -1.36 144642.9 MandarO $ 
2.23 -0.01 2.36 1.65 - -7.29 0.8 Marstons 70.00 -6.15 105.50 59.35 - -1.06 4180.2 Natl Exp 214.00 -12.60 413.50 
206.70 - -4.61 2169.7 PPHE Htl 1350 -14.00 1800 1175 - -6.00 20.1 Restaurt 77.60 -7.40 140.00 52.56 - 8.16 
2778.4 Ryanair Hol309.00 -4.00 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.37 362.8 TUI 198.50 -23.30 532.80 189.85 - -1.34 13229.0 
Whitbrd 2837 -271.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.03 1053.3
Load-Date: November 26, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 27, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 153 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1182.8 -226.00 1890.2 1073 - -1.96 5260.0 CompassX 1453.5 -130.50 1721.63 18.06 - -
62.92 5327.8 Dalata Hote 305.00 -27.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.65 14.5 easyJet 499.80 -64.60 1095 6.81 - -1.65 
18712.5 FirstGrp 102.90 0.50 104.00 59.75 - 26.38 3413.3 Flutter Ent 10300 -615.00 19680.8 10200 - -258.79 
991.4 Fuller A 684.00 - 977.73 580.00 - -7.83 67.9 Go-Ahead 691.50 -45.00 1463 680.00 - -6.45 96.6 IntCon Htel 
4580 -462.00 46170 4389 - -4521.22 973.3 Intl Cons A 131.40 -22.92 222.10 2.06 - -1.36 144642.9 MandarO $ 
2.23 -0.01 2.36 1.65 - -7.29 0.8 Marstons 70.00 -6.15 105.50 59.35 - -1.06 4180.2 Natl Exp 214.00 -12.60 413.50 
206.70 - -4.61 2169.7 PPHE Htl 1350 -14.00 1800 1175 - -6.00 20.1 Restaurt 77.60 -7.40 140.00 52.56 - 8.16 
2778.4 Ryanair Hol 309.00 -4.00 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.37 362.8 TUI 198.50 -23.30 532.80 189.85 - -1.34 13229.0 
Whitbrd 2837 -271.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.03 1053.3
Load-Date: November 26, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 27, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 153 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1182.8 -226.00 1890.2 1073 - -1.96 5260.0 CompassX 1453.5 -130.50 1721.63 18.06 - -
62.92 5327.8 Dalata Hote 305.00 -27.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.65 14.5 easyJet 499.80 -64.60 1095 6.81 - -1.65 
18712.5 FirstGrp 102.90 0.50 104.00 59.75 - 26.38 3413.3 Flutter Ent 10300 -615.00 19680.8 10200 - -258.79 
991.4 Fuller A 684.00 - 977.73 580.00 - -7.83 67.9 Go-Ahead 691.50 -45.00 1463 680.00 - -6.45 96.6 IntCon Htel 
4580 -462.00 46170 4389 - -4521.22 973.3 Intl Cons A 131.40 -22.92 222.10 2.06 - -1.36 144642.9 MandarO $ 
2.23 -0.01 2.36 1.65 - -7.29 0.8 Marstons 70.00 -6.15 105.50 59.35 - -1.06 4180.2 Natl Exp 214.00 -12.60 413.50 
206.70 - -4.61 2169.7 PPHE Htl 1350 -14.00 1800 1175 - -6.00 20.1 Restaurt 77.60 -7.40 140.00 52.56 - 8.16 
2778.4 Ryanair Hol 309.00 -4.00 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.37 362.8 TUI 198.50 -23.30 532.80 189.85 - -1.34 13229.0 
Whitbrd 2837 -271.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.03 1053.3
Load-Date: November 26, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 27, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 153 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1182.8 -226.00 1890.2 1073 - -1.96 5260.0 CompassX 1453.5 -130.50 1721.63 18.06 - -
62.92 5327.8 Dalata Hote 305.00 -27.00 414.50 272.00 - -11.65 14.5 easyJet 499.80 -64.60 1095 6.81 - -1.65 
18712.5 FirstGrp 102.90 0.50 104.00 59.75 - 26.38 3413.3 Flutter Ent 10300 -615.00 19680.8 10200 - -258.79 
991.4 Fuller A 684.00 - 977.73 580.00 - -7.83 67.9 Go-Ahead 691.50 -45.00 1463 680.00 - -6.45 96.6 IntCon Htel 
4580 -462.00 46170 4389 - -4521.22 973.3 Intl Cons A 131.40 -22.92 222.10 2.06 - -1.36 144642.9 MandarO $ 
2.23 -0.01 2.36 1.65 - -7.29 0.8 Marstons 70.00 -6.15 105.50 59.35 - -1.06 4180.2 Natl Exp 214.00 -12.60 413.50 
206.70 - -4.61 2169.7 PPHE Htl 1350 -14.00 1800 1175 - -6.00 20.1 Restaurt 77.60 -7.40 140.00 52.56 - 8.16 
2778.4 Ryanair Hol 309.00 -4.00 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.37 362.8 TUI 198.50 -23.30 532.80 189.85 - -1.34 13229.0 
Whitbrd 2837 -271.00 3949.01 36.28 - -23.03 1053.3
Load-Date: November 26, 2021
End of Document
Manning & Napier Group LLC Grows Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Manning & Napier Group LLC Grows Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
November 26, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 599 words
Body
Ryanair Manning & Napier Group LLC increased its holdings in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
by 1.3% during the third quarter, according to its most recent filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. 
The firm owned 823,407 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 10,804 shares 
during the period. Manning & Napier Group LLC owned approximately 0.36% of Ryanair worth $90,622,000 as of its 
most recent SEC filing.  
Several other large investors have also bought and sold shares of the company. Captrust Financial Advisors lifted 
its stake in  Ryanair by 47.8% in the 1st quarter. Captrust Financial Advisors now owns 1,524 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $175,000 after buying an additional 493 shares in the last quarter.  D. E. 
Shaw & Co. Inc. lifted its stake in  Ryanair by 430.7% in the 1st quarter. D. E. Shaw & Co. Inc. now owns 39,183 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $4,506,000 after purchasing an additional 31,800 shares in the 
last quarter.  Canada Pension Plan Investment Board purchased a new position in  Ryanair in the 1st quarter worth 
approximately $2,864,000.  TownSquare Capital LLC purchased a new position in  Ryanair in the 1st quarter worth 
approximately $235,000.  Finally, Raymond James Trust N.A. increased its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 11.9% 
during the 2nd quarter. Raymond James Trust N.A. now owns 2,186 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $237,000 after buying an additional 232 shares during the last quarter. Hedge funds and other institutional 
investors own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
A number of equities research analysts have recently weighed in on RYAAY shares. UBS Group  reaffirmed a 
"neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Raymond James upped their 
price objective on Ryanair from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the stock an "outperform" rating in a research report 
on Thursday, October 7th. Morgan Stanley  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research 
report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Peel Hunt raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research 
report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in 
a research report on Monday, November 15th. Five analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen 
have assigned  a buy rating to the stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the stock currently has an 
average rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.48. 
Shares of RYAAY stock  opened at $103.80 on Friday. The company has a market cap of $23.43 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of -29.49 and a beta of 1.56. The stock has a 50 day simple moving average of $113.48 and a 200-
Manning & Napier Group LLC Grows Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
day simple moving average of $111.15. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-month high of 
$127.25. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96.  
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Why do commodities matter? 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: November 26, 2021
End of Document
Friday papers: British car production collapses to 65-year low
Friday papers: British car production collapses to 65-year low
Citywire
November 26, 2021 Friday 3:26 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 892 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And airlines brace for threat from Europe’s surge of Covid infections.
Body
Top stories
•
The Times: Car production slumped by 40% in Britain last month as manufacturers grappled with a 
shortage of semiconductors on top of disruption caused by the pandemic.
•
Financial Times: A surge of coronavirus cases in continental Europe has cast a shadow over the travel 
industry’s recovery, with Ryanair boss Michael O’Leary forecasting a ‘fraught period’ over the next month.
•
The Daily Telegraph: The founder of JD Wetherspoon has launched an extraordinary attack on one of the 
pub chain’s biggest shareholders, accusing Fidelity of damaging public companies with a box-ticking 
approach to governance while breaking the rules itself.
•
Financial Times: The plant-based meal-replacement maker, Huel, has hired bankers to advise on an IPO in 
London after a surge in popularity for its products in the pandemic fitness boom.
•
Financial Times: Boris Johnson and Emmanuel Macron were struggling to coordinate a coherent response 
to the deaths of 27 migrants who had drowned trying to cross the English Channel from France.
•
The Times: Flights from South Africa will be halted tomorrow as ministers and scientists become ‘deeply 
concerned’ about a new fast-spreading coronavirus variant.
Business and economics
•
The Guardian: Another two UK energy suppliers, Orbit Energy and Entice Energy, have gone bust after the 
collapse of Bulb Energy earlier this week.
•
Financial Times: Rémy Cointreau shares rose more than 10% after the maker of luxury French spirits 
upgraded its full-year profit guidance, buoyed by a surge in cognac sales.
•
The Times: Mitchells & Butlers, one of Britain’s biggest pub companies, has reported a return to profitability 
since Covid restrictions were lifted but warned that cost pressures now posed huge challenges to the 
sector.
•
The Times: The popularity of used cars amid a shortage of new ones helped Motorpoint to boost its profits 
by more than a third in the first half.
Friday papers: British car production collapses to 65-year low
•
Daily Mail: Mothercare has bounced back to profitability despite acknowledging that it has been 
significantly affected by supply chain disruptions and store closures.
•
The Times: Fears of gift shortages over Christmas sparked the strongest monthly rise in retail sales in 
November since May 1990, according to the CBI.
•
The Times: Britain’s crisp shortage has begun to ease but supplies on shelves remain low, with a quarter 
of shops still struggling to find stock.
•
The Times: The founder of Laing O’Rourke is stepping down before a mooted stock market listing.
•
The Times: The boss of Greencore, the convenience food group, is to leave to take up the top job at 
catering company SSP, after more than a decade running Britain’s biggest maker of sandwiches.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Airbus has hit out at an Italian rival, Leonardo, for ‘dangling carrots’ over UK 
investment as the two companies battle to win a major helicopter contract from the Ministry of Defence.
•
The Times: Investors gave a positive reception to plans announced yesterday by Land Securities Group to 
work more closely with leading retailers in shopping developments in a post-Covid era.
•
The Guardian: Google’s Irish subsidiary has agreed to pay €218m in back taxes to the Irish government, 
according to company filings.
•
The Daily Telegraph: The energy regulator is facing ‘serious questions’ over its handling of the domestic 
supply market after two more firms collapsed.
•
The Daily Telegraph: The White House has blacklisted eight Chinese quantum computing companies amid 
growing concerns that the technology will allow hackers to easily break into the West’s most sensitive 
national security systems.
•
The Guardian: French fishers are threatening to block access to the Channel Tunnel and the ferry port in 
Calais on Friday as part of an ongoing dispute over access to the waters between France and the UK in 
the wake of Brexit.
•
The Daily Telegraph: More EU nationals left the UK last year than arrived for the first time in three decades 
as a net 94,000 departed, piling further pressure on Britain’s labour crisis.
Share tips, comments and bids
•
The Daily Telegraph (Questor share tips): BUY PRS Reit.
•
The Times (Tempus share tips): BUY Edinburgh Worldwide Investment Trust; BUY Secure Trust Bank.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Cornish Lithium has secured an £18m investment to speed up the development of its 
mining projects as the UK attempts to wean itself off a reliance on Chinese minerals.
•
The Guardian: Bosses at the insurer LV= have been criticised over alleged conflicts of interest in its 
controversial £530m private equity takeover, which has been labelled a ‘three-act tragedy’.
•
The Times: Vivo Energy, a FTSE 250 group, said that it was recommending a cash offer from the 
commodities trading group Vitol worth $1.85 (139p) per share and valuing the company at $2.3bn.
•
The Times: Secure Trust Bank is joining the rush into the buy now, pay later market, with the acquisition of 
an app to allow customers to use the credit.
•
The Times: Blue Prism, the London-listed robotics software company, has agreed to a £1.22 billion final 
takeover offer from Vista Equity, the US private equity firm, topping a proposal from SS&C Technologies.
•
The Times: Allica Bank, a specialist small business lender, tapped investors for £110m, taking the amount 
it has raised to £233m in the past two years.
•
The Times (Comment): It’s only rock’n’roll but there’s not much to like about astronomical executive pay.
Friday papers: British car production collapses to 65-year low
Load-Date: November 26, 2021
End of Document
Europe's Covid surge leaves travel industry on tenterhooks ? Uncertainty over Christmas period ? Airline and 
hotel stocks suffer
Europe's Covid surge leaves travel industry on tenterhooks; ? Uncertainty 
over Christmas period ? Airline and hotel stocks suffer
Financial Times (London, England)
November 26, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; TEASERS; Pg. 5
Length: 506 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS ;ALICE HANCOCK
Body
Surging coronavirus cases in continental Europe have cast a shadow over the travel industry's recovery hopes, with 
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary warning of a "fraught period" over the next month.
Covid cases and deaths are rising quickly across the region, with several countries, including Austria and Slovakia, 
reimposing short national lockdowns in an attempt to rein in infections.
Rising concern about a weak winter season has hit travel stocks, with shares in easyJet, British Airways' owner IAG 
and Accor, Europe's largest hotel group, all down about 15 per cent over the past three weeks.
O'Leary said it was "inevitable" that rising Covid cases would disrupt travel.
"It looks like Europe is going to get very nervous again at the worst time of the year, when people are making their 
Christmas travel plans," he said.
The uncertainty could also weigh on early bookings for next summer, which tend to come in between Christmas and
New Year, he added.
Europe's Covid surge leaves travel industry on tenterhooks ? Uncertainty over Christmas period ? Airline and 
hotel stocks suffer
Airlines have slightly pared back their flight schedules, with the number of seats available in western Europe falling 
over the past three weeks, according to data from OAG.
"European travel intentions have been affected by the rise in Covid cases across the continent and by the 
lockdowns and announcements in many European countries," said Axel Hefer, chief executive of Trivago, a hotel 
and travel booking website.
Hefer said there had been a 50 per cent decline in searches for domestic and international travel in Austria, and a 
35 per cent fall in the Netherlands, where the government has introduced new restrictions on bars, restaurants and 
non-essential shops.
Hotel room occupancy in Amsterdam has fallen from 62 per cent in the last week of October to 41 per cent this 
week, and there have also been declines in Vienna and Munich, according to figures from STR, a hospitality data 
provider.
There has been a fall in search interest for hotels in Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Germany, according to 
Expedia, the online travel booking company.
While the disruption is a blow for companies still recovering from the damage inflicted earlier in the pandemic, the 
situation is still far better than before vaccines allowed the reopening of travel this year.
November is typically a quieter month for the industry, and airlines were still planning to raise capacity again going 
into the busier Christmas season, OAG said.
Searches for flights this month have been 80 per cent higher than in the same month last year, according to travel 
bookings company Amadeus.
Mark Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody, said the current difficulties for airlines should not detract from the 
long-term recovery picture.
"Nobody is buying the sector for Christmas prospects, they are buying for summer 2022 and 2023," he said.
"Airline stocks have derated as though they are facing last year's risk, but I don't see that. You have to keep the 
faith in what's going to be some tough months to come."
'It looks like Europe is going to get very nervous again at the worst time of the year'
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
Europe's Covid surge leaves travel industry on tenterhooks ? Uncertainty over Christmas period ? Airline and 
hotel stocks suffer
Europe's Covid surge leaves travel industry on tenterhooks; ? Uncertainty 
over Christmas period ? Airline and hotel stocks suffer
Financial Times (London, England)
November 26, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; TEASERS; Pg. 5
Length: 506 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS ; ALICE HANCOCK
Body
Surging coronavirus cases in continental Europe have cast a shadow over the travel industry's recovery hopes, with 
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary warning of a "fraught period" over the next month.
Covid cases and deaths are rising quickly across the region, with several countries, including Austria and Slovakia, 
reimposing short national lockdowns in an attempt to rein in infections.
Rising concern about a weak winter season has hit travel stocks, with shares in easyJet, British Airways' owner IAG 
and Accor, Europe's largest hotel group, all down about 15 per cent over the past three weeks.
O'Leary said it was "inevitable" that rising Covid cases would disrupt travel.
"It looks like Europe is going to get very nervous again at the worst time of the year, when people are making their 
Christmas travel plans," he said.
The uncertainty could also weigh on early bookings for next summer, which tend to come in between Christmas and
New Year, he added.
Europe's Covid surge leaves travel industry on tenterhooks ? Uncertainty over Christmas period ? Airline and 
hotel stocks suffer
Airlines have slightly pared back their flight schedules, with the number of seats available in western Europe falling 
over the past three weeks, according to data from OAG.
"European travel intentions have been affected by the rise in Covid cases across the continent and by the 
lockdowns and announcements in many European countries," said Axel Hefer, chief executive of Trivago, a hotel 
and travel booking website.
Hefer said there had been a 50 per cent decline in searches for domestic and international travel in Austria, and a 
35 per cent fall in the Netherlands, where the government has introduced new restrictions on bars, restaurants and 
non-essential shops.
Hotel room occupancy in Amsterdam has fallen from 62 per cent in the last week of October to 41 per cent this 
week, and there have also been declines in Vienna and Munich, according to figures from STR, a hospitality data 
provider.
There has been a fall in search interest for hotels in Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Germany, according to 
Expedia, the online travel booking company.
While the disruption is a blow for companies still recovering from the damage inflicted earlier in the pandemic, the 
situation is still far better than before vaccines allowed the reopening of travel this year.
November is typically a quieter month for the industry, and airlines were still planning to raise capacity again going 
into the busier Christmas season, OAG said.
Searches for flights this month have been 80 per cent higher than in the same month last year, according to travel 
bookings company Amadeus.
Mark Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody, said the current difficulties for airlines should not detract from the 
long-term recovery picture.
"Nobody is buying the sector for Christmas prospects, they are buying for summer 2022 and 2023," he said.
"Airline stocks have derated as though they are facing last year's risk, but I don't see that. You have to keep the 
faith in what's going to be some tough months to come."
'It looks like Europe is going to get very nervous again at the worst time of the year'
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
Europe's Covid surge leaves travel industry on tenterhooks ? Uncertainty over Christmas period ? Airline and 
hotel stocks suffer
Europe's Covid surge leaves travel industry on tenterhooks; ? Uncertainty 
over Christmas period ? Airline and hotel stocks suffer
Financial Times (London, England)
November 26, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 8
Length: 506 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS;ALICE HANCOCK
Body
Surging coronavirus cases in continental Europe have cast a shadow over the travel industry's recovery hopes, with 
Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary warning of a "fraught period" over the next month.
Covid cases and deaths are rising quickly across the region, with several countries, including Austria and Slovakia, 
reimposing short national lockdowns in an attempt to rein in infections.
Rising concern about a weak winter season has hit travel stocks, with shares in easyJet, British Airways' owner IAG 
and Accor, Europe's largest hotel group, all down about 15 per cent over the past three weeks.
O'Leary said it was "inevitable" that rising Covid cases would disrupt travel.
"It looks like Europe is going to get very nervous again at the worst time of the year, when people are making their 
Christmas travel plans," he said.
The uncertainty could also weigh on early bookings for next summer, which tend to come in between Christmas and
New Year, he added.
Europe's Covid surge leaves travel industry on tenterhooks ? Uncertainty over Christmas period ? Airline and 
hotel stocks suffer
Airlines have slightly pared back their flight schedules, with the number of seats available in western Europe falling 
over the past three weeks, according to data from OAG.
"European travel intentions have been affected by the rise in Covid cases across the continent and by the 
lockdowns and announcements in many European countries," said Axel Hefer, chief executive of Trivago, a hotel 
and travel booking website.
Hefer said there had been a 50 per cent decline in searches for domestic and international travel in Austria, and a 
35 per cent fall in the Netherlands, where the government has introduced new restrictions on bars, restaurants and 
non-essential shops.
Hotel room occupancy in Amsterdam has fallen from 62 per cent in the last week of October to 41 per cent this 
week, and there have also been declines in Vienna and Munich, according to figures from STR, a hospitality data 
provider.
There has been a fall in search interest for hotels in Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Germany, according to 
Expedia, the online travel booking company.
While the disruption is a blow for companies still recovering from the damage inflicted earlier in the pandemic, the 
situation is still far better than before vaccines allowed the reopening of travel this year.
November is typically a quieter month for the industry, and airlines were still planning to raise capacity again going 
into the busier Christmas season, OAG said.
Searches for flights this month have been 80 per cent higher than in the same month last year, according to travel 
bookings company Amadeus.
Mark Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody, said the current difficulties for airlines should not detract from the 
long-term recovery picture.
"Nobody is buying the sector for Christmas prospects, they are buying for summer 2022 and 2023," he said.
"Airline stocks have derated as though they are facing last year's risk, but I don't see that. You have to keep the 
faith in what's going to be some tough months to come."
'It looks like Europe is going to get very nervous again at the worst time of the year'
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
Storm Engulfs Financial Markets Over Fears Of New Virulent Covid Strain
Storm Engulfs Financial Markets Over Fears Of New Virulent Covid Strain
Newstex Blogs 
ValueWalk
November 26, 2021 Friday 8:55 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 974 words
Body
Nov 26, 2021( ValueWalk: https://www.valuewalk.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 sergeitokmakov[1] / Pixabay 
 Get The Full Ray Dalio Series in PDF 
 Get the entire 10-part series on Ray Dalio in PDF. Save it to your desktop, read it on your tablet, or email to your 
colleagues 
 Q3 2021 hedge fund letters, conferences and more[2] 
Fears Of New Virulent Covid Strain 
"Fear has gripped the financial markets with the travel industry flying into another violent storm, after the discovery 
of a new Covid strain which could be far more contagious and may render vaccines[3] less effective. 
Mohnish Pabrai On Value Investing, Missed Opportunities and Autobiographies 
 In August, Mohnish Pabrai took part in Brown University's Value Investing Speaker Series, answering a series of 
questions from students. Q3 2021 hedge fund letters, conferences and more One of the topics he covered was the 
issue of finding cheap equities, a process the value investor has plenty of experience with. Cheap Stocks In the 
Read More[4] 
London's FTSE 100 reversed the slight gains of the week plunging 3.2% in early trade, while the FTSE 250 opened 
down 2.7%. Oil has also fallen back with a barrel of the benchmark Brent Crude 2.7% lower at just over $80 a barrel 
over worries of lower global demand and that's hit energy stocks with BP tumbling 6.5% in early trade and Shell 
5.5% lower. 
 With Europe still battling with the surge of a fourth wave of the virus, there are now fears that the highly mutated 
Covid strain discovered in states in Southern Africa will prompt fresh shutdowns around the world in an attempt to 
stop its spread, leading to another drag on recovery[5]. The description of the mutations as 'horrific' and of 'great 
concern' by scientists had already spooked Asian markets with Japan's Nikkei sliding 2.5% and Hong Kong's Hang 
Seng by 2.6%. The fear has filtered into European markets, which had already been rattled this week by spiking 
cases in the region. The DAX, CAC 40, Euro STOXX 100 all took a fresh tumble on the open. 
Storm Engulfs Financial Markets Over Fears Of New Virulent Covid Strain
Stringent Quarantine Rules 
The decision by the UK government to impose stringent quarantine[6] rules on six southern African countries within 
hours has severely rattled the travel and tourism industry. It's set off a fresh bout of extreme turbulence for the 
travel sector. British Airways owner IAG nosedived 16% in early trade with investors deeply disturbed that demand 
for long haul transatlantic flights could be badly affected. Rolls Royce followed the descent, plunging by 11%, as the 
development could prove another major upset for its core business of making and servicing engines for long-haul 
aircraft. easyJet, Ryanair, TUI and Wizz Air also plummeted in early trading, registering much sharper falls than 
earlier drops of Quantas on Australia's ASX which fell 5.5%, and Hong Kong listed Cathay Pacific which was 4.1% 
lower. 
 The immediate way the tough restrictions were imposed was a reminder of just how tied companies' fortunes are to 
snap government decisions and the latest twists in the trajectory of the virus. 
 This fresh fall in confidence is the last set-back the industry needed given that it's already faced with lockdowns in 
Europe. There had been high hopes of a bounce back in bookings, with Black Friday[7] travel deals launched by 
airlines including British Airways and easyJet to lure people back into seats. But it's going to take much more than a 
discounted ticket to calm nerves and restore optimism, particularly as many travellers have become weary of the 
rounds of cancellations they've experienced over the much of the last two years." 
 Article by Susannah Streeter, senior investment and markets analyst, Hargreaves Lansdown: 
About Hargreaves Lansdown 
Over 1.67 million clients trust us with 138.0 billion (as at 30 September 2021), making us the UK's number one 
platform for private investors. More than 98% of client activity is done through our digital channels and over 600,000 
access our mobile app each month.  
 Updated on Nov 26, 2021, 3:50 pm 
 [ 1]: https://pixabay.com/users/sergeitokmakov/ [ 2]: https://valuewalkpremium.com/q3-2021-hedge-fund-letters/ [ 
3]: 
https://www.valuewalk.com/whitney-tilsons-birthday-wish-is-for-you-to-get-vaccinated/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://valuewalkpremium.com/mohnish-pabrai-on-value-investing-missed-opportunities-and-autobiographies/ [ 5]: 
https://www.valuewalk.com/2020/06/energy-recovery-vorteq/ [ 6]: https://www.valuewalk.com/president-joe-biden-
announces-americans-not-vaccinated-before-2022-will-be-put-in-camps/ [ 7]: https://www.valuewalk.com/these-are-
the-most-in-demand-black-friday-brand-deals-in-2021/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 26, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Hits New 12-Month Low at $13.53
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Hits New 12-Month Low at $13.53
American Banking and Market News
November 26, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 184 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (LON:RYA) hit a new 52-week low during mid-day trading on Friday . The stock 
traded as low as GBX 13.53 ($0.18) and last traded at GBX 14.08 ($0.18), with a volume of 1518986 shares 
changing hands. The stock had previously closed at GBX 16 ($0.21). 
The firm's 50-day moving average is GBX 16.70 and its 200-day moving average is GBX 16.49. The company has 
a debt-to-equity ratio of 116.44, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.14. The company has a market 
capitalization of £158.91 million and a P/E ratio of -24.82.  
Ryanair Company Profile (LON:RYA ) 
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Germany, and Other European countries. It is also involved in the provision of various 
ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and internet-related services; in-flight sale of beverages, 
food, and merchandise; and marketing accommodation and hotel services, car hire, and travel insurance through its 
Website and mobile app. 
Featured Story: Fiduciary 
Load-Date: November 26, 2021
End of Document
? Rising Covid cases worry [...] Briefing
? Rising Covid cases worry [...]; Briefing
Financial Times (London, England)
November 26, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, Middle East Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 39 words
Body
? Rising Covid cases worry airline boss Ryanair chief Michael O'Leary has forecast a "fraught period" over the next 
month as a surge of coronavirus cases in continental Europe casts a shadow over the travel industry's recovery. - 
PAGE 5
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
? Rising Covid cases worry [...] Briefing
? Rising Covid cases worry [...]; Briefing
Financial Times (London, England)
November 26, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 39 words
Body
? Rising Covid cases worry airline boss Ryanair chief Michael O'Leary has forecast a "fraught period" over the next 
month as a surge of coronavirus cases in continental Europe casts a shadow over the travel industry's recovery. - 
PAGE 5
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
? Rising Covid cases worry [...] Briefing
? Rising Covid cases worry [...]; Briefing
Financial Times (London, England)
November 26, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 39 words
Body
? Rising Covid cases worry airline boss Ryanair chief Michael O'Leary has forecast a "fraught period" over the next 
month as a surge of coronavirus cases in continental Europe casts a shadow over the travel industry's recovery. - 
PAGE 5
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
? Rising Covid cases worry [...] Briefing
? Rising Covid cases worry [...]; Briefing
Financial Times (London, England)
November 26, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1
Length: 39 words
Body
? Rising Covid cases worry Ryanair boss Airline chief Michael O'Leary has forecast a "fraught period" over the next 
month as a surge of coronavirus cases in continental Europe casts a shadow over the travel industry's recovery.- 
PAGE 8
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 26, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 151 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1408.8 22.80 1890.2 1073 - -2.33 423.2 CompassX 1584 49.00 1721.63 18.06 - -68.57 
2795.4 Dalata Hotel 332.00 - 414.50 272.00 - -12.68 0.0 easyJet 564.40 7.40 1095 6.81 - -1.86 2525.7 FirstGrp 
102.40 0.70 104.00 59.75 - 26.26 1882.4 Flutter Entertainment 10915 100.00 19680.8 10573 - -274.25 510.5 Fuller 
A 684.00 - 977.73 580.00 - -7.83 16.2 Go-Ahead 736.50 -0.50 1463 683.03 - -6.87 46.3 IntCon Htels Gp 5042 
135.00 46170 4389 - -4977.30 311.8 Intl Cons Air 154.32 1.54 222.10 2.06 - -1.60 15229.2 MandarO $ 2.24 0.05 
2.36 1.65 - -7.33 0.1 Marstons 76.15 2.05 105.50 59.35 - -1.16 1114.4 Natl Exp 226.60 10.40 413.50 206.70 - -4.88 
770.6 PPHE Htl 1364 24.00 1800 1175 - -6.06 5.1 Restaurt 85.00 1.00 140.00 52.56 - 8.94 835.1 Ryanair Holdings 
PLC 313.00 2.50 338.60 250.00 1.05 53.05 111.9 TUI 221.80 8.20 580.20 202.50 - -1.50 2311.0 Whitbrd 3108 
84.00 3949.01 36.28 - -25.23 346.6
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
Brokerages Set Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Price Target at $132.75
Brokerages Set Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Price Target at 
$132.75
Newstex Blogs 
Watchlist News
November 25, 2021 Thursday 11:35 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 824 words
Body
Nov 25, 2021( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have been given a consensus rating of 'Buy' by the nineteen 
analysts that are presently covering the stock, MarketBeat.com[1] reports. Five investment analysts have rated the 
stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned a buy rating to the company. The average 12 month target price 
among analysts that have issued ratings on the stock in the last year is $132.75.  
 A number of research analysts have recently weighed in on the company. Raymond James lifted their price 
objective on Ryanair from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the company an 'outperform' rating in a research report on 
Thursday, October 7th. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an 'outperform' rating to a 'market perform' rating in a 
report on Monday, November 8th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reissued a 'buy' rating on shares of Ryanair in 
a report on Friday, September 17th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reissued a 'neutral' rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
report on Monday, October 25th. Finally, Morgan Stanley reissued an 'overweight' rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
report on Tuesday, November 2nd. 
NASDAQ RYAAY[2] opened at $103.80 on Monday. The company has a market capitalization of $23.43 billion, a 
price-to-earnings ratio of -29.49 and a beta of 1.56. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 
1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The stock has a 50-day moving average of $113.69 and a 200 day moving average 
of $111.20. Ryanair has a one year low of $94.68 and a one year high of $127.25.  
 Large investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the business. WealthShield Partners LLC 
increased its stake in Ryanair by 638.2% in the 2nd quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after acquiring an additional 217 shares during the last quarter. 
Assetmark Inc. increased its stake in Ryanair by 133.6% in the 3rd quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $30,000 after acquiring an additional 155 shares during the last quarter. 
Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair in the 2nd quarter worth approximately $46,000. 
JFS Wealth Advisors LLC bought a new position in shares of Ryanair during the 3rd quarter valued at 
approximately $47,000. Finally, Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. increased its position in shares of Ryanair by 
532.2% during the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation 
Brokerages Set Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Price Target at $132.75
company's stock valued at $58,000 after purchasing an additional 463 shares during the last quarter. 43.91% of the 
stock is currently owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
About Ryanair 
 Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
 Featured Story: Example of operating income, EBIT and EBITDA[3] 
Receive News & Ratings for Ryanair Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[4]. 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-operating-income/ [ 4]: https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-
email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY&c=Ryanair 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair to open Madeira base in 3Q22
Ryanair to open Madeira base in 3Q22
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
November 25, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 406 words
Body
Ryanair (FR, Dublin Int'l) has announced the opening of a new base at Funchal, Madeira in the third quarter of 
2022, the Irish budget carrier's fifth base in Portugal.
The airline in a statement said it would base two aircraft on the island, representing an investment of USD200 
million, while creating 60 direct new jobs.
The new base will see the introduction of ten routes - five of which are to new destinations - and 40 weekly flights, 
connecting Madeira with mainland Portugal and with six other European countries.
The ten routes include Brussels Charleroi (Belgium); Dublin Int'l (Ireland); Lisbon and Porto (Portugal); London 
Stansted and Manchester Int'l (UK); Marseilles and Paris Beauvais (France), Milan Bergamo (Italy); and Nuremberg 
(Germany).
According to the ch-aviation schedules module, the new destinations include Milan, Dublin, Marseilles, and Paris 
Beauvais (Paris Orly served by Transavia France (TO, Paris Orly)), while Nuremberg is currently only served on a 
charter basis by Corendon Airlines Europe (XR, Malta Int'l).
In total, Ryanair will operate more than 160 Portuguese routes next summer to 15 countries, the carrier said.
Ryanair Chief Executive Officer Eddie Wilson used the opportunity to take a swipe at the Portuguese government's 
EUR3.2 billion euros (USD3.5 billion) aid to flag carrier TAP Air Portugal (TP, Lisbon). He also again called on the 
government to open Montijo airport, to scrap an ill-timed aviation tax which is effectively a direct tax on tourism, and 
to introduce a non-discriminatory traffic recovery scheme..."all of which could be easily funded with the EUR3.2 
billion of wasteful state aid", he charged.
Ryanair for months has been at odds with Lisbon over its protection of TAP. In May 2021, it initially won a legal 
challenge in the European Court against EUR1.2 billion (USD1.35 billion) COVID-19 state compensation provided 
to TAP, but the court ruling was overturned by the European Commission in July 2021. Brussels is still investigating 
if Portugal's proposed EUR3.2 billion restructuring support to TAP complies with EU regulations.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
Ryanair to open Madeira base in 3Q22
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Sold by FNY Investment Advisers LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Sold by FNY Investment 
Advisers LLC
American Banking and Market News
November 25, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 596 words
Body
Ryanair FNY Investment Advisers LLC reduced its stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
74.9% during the 3rd quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). The fund owned 1,500 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 4,469 shares 
during the period. FNY Investment Advisers LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $165,000 as of its most recent 
SEC filing.  
Other institutional investors also recently modified their holdings of the company. WealthShield Partners LLC 
boosted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 638.2% during the 2nd quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 
251 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after purchasing an additional 217 shares during 
the last quarter.  Advisory Services Network LLC acquired a new position in  Ryanair in the second quarter valued 
at approximately $46,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. lifted its holdings in  Ryanair by 532.2% in the 
second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock 
valued at $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the last quarter.  PNC Managed Account 
Solutions Inc. acquired a new position in  Ryanair in the second quarter valued at approximately $79,000.  Finally, 
Captrust Financial Advisors lifted its holdings in  Ryanair by 47.8% in the first quarter. Captrust Financial Advisors 
now owns 1,524 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $175,000 after acquiring an additional 493 
shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $103.80 on Thursday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 
week high of $127.25. The stock's fifty day moving average is $113.69 and its two-hundred day moving average is 
$111.20. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The stock 
has a market capitalization of $23.43 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -29.49 and a beta of 1.56.  
A number of research firms recently commented on RYAAY. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  reiterated a "buy" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Credit Suisse Group  reiterated an "outperform" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Raymond James upped their price objective on 
Ryanair from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the company an "outperform" rating in a report on Thursday, October 
7th. Finally, UBS Group  restated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 
28th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a buy rating to the 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Sold by FNY Investment Advisers LLC
company's stock. According to MarketBeat.com, Ryanair presently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average 
target price of $122.48. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Margin 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
Wells Fargo & Company MN Trims Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Wells Fargo & Company MN Trims Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
November 25, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 583 words
Body
Ryanair Wells Fargo & Company MN trimmed its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 3.3% 
during the second quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. The institutional investor  owned 218,179 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 
7,558 shares during the period. Wells Fargo & Company MN owned about 0.10% of Ryanair worth $23,609,000 at 
the end of the most recent reporting period.  
A number of other large investors have also recently added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. WealthShield 
Partners LLC increased its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 638.2% during the 2nd quarter. WealthShield Partners 
LLC now owns 251 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $27,000 after acquiring an additional 
217 shares during the last quarter.  Advisory Services Network LLC acquired a new position in shares of  Ryanair 
during the 2nd quarter valued at about $46,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. increased its stake in shares 
of  Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the last quarter.  
PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. acquired a new position in shares of  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued 
at about $79,000.  Finally, Captrust Financial Advisors increased its stake in shares of  Ryanair by 47.8% during the 
1st quarter. Captrust Financial Advisors now owns 1,524 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$175,000 after acquiring an additional 493 shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors own  43.91% of the 
company's stock.  
RYAAY stock  opened at $103.80 on Thursday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 
1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The stock has a market capitalization of $23.43 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -
29.49 and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $94.68 and a 1 year high of $127.25. The stock's 
fifty day moving average is $113.69 and its two-hundred day moving average is $111.20.  
A number of research firms recently issued reports on RYAAY. Barclays  reissued an "overweight" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reissued a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Oddo Bhf downgraded shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Deutsche Bank 
Aktiengesellschaft  reissued a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. 
Finally, Morgan Stanley  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, 
November 2nd. Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued  a buy 
Wells Fargo & Company MN Trims Holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
rating to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the company presently has a consensus 
rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.48. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Why Invest in Dividend Kings 
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives $132.75 Consensus Price Target from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Receives $132.75 Consensus Price 
Target from Analysts
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
November 25, 2021 Thursday 11:15 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 767 words
Body
Nov 25, 2021( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have earned a consensus rating of "Buy" from the nineteen 
research firms that are currently covering the firm, MarketBeat Ratings[1] reports. Five investment analysts have 
rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued a buy rating on the company. The average 12 month 
price objective among analysts that have issued ratings on the stock in the last year is $132.75.  
Several research analysts have recently issued reports on RYAAY shares. Peel Hunt upgraded shares of Ryanair 
from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Friday, September 17th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft 
reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Raymond James 
lifted their target price on shares of Ryanair from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the company an "outperform" rating 
in a research report on Thursday, October 7th. Oddo Bhf lowered shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co. reiterated a 
"neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. 
A number of large investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the business. WealthShield Partners 
LLC lifted its position in shares of Ryanair by 638.2% during the second quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now 
owns 251 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after purchasing an additional 217 shares in 
the last quarter. Assetmark Inc. increased its stake in Ryanair by 133.6% in the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now 
owns 271 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $30,000 after purchasing an additional 155 
shares in the last quarter. Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair in the second quarter 
valued at approximately $46,000. JFS Wealth Advisors LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair in the third quarter 
valued at approximately $47,000. Finally, Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. increased its stake in Ryanair by 
532.2% in the second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $58,000 after purchasing an additional 463 shares in the last quarter. Hedge funds and 
other institutional investors own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY[2] opened at $103.80 on Monday. The firm's 50-day moving average is $113.69 and its 200-day 
moving average is $111.20. Ryanair has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week high of $127.25. The company 
has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The company has a market cap of 
$23.43 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -29.49 and a beta of 1.56.  
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives $132.75 Consensus Price Target from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: Margin[3] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/trading-on-margin/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
FNY Investment Advisers LLC Sells 4,469 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
FNY Investment Advisers LLC Sells 4,469 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
November 25, 2021 Thursday 2:15 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 913 words
Body
Nov 25, 2021( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 FNY Investment Advisers LLC lowered its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 74.9% in the 3rd 
quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The 
firm owned 1,500 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 4,469 shares during the quarter. FNY 
Investment Advisers LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $165,000 as of its most recent filing with the Securities & 
Exchange Commission.  
Several other institutional investors and hedge funds have also modified their holdings of RYAAY. Baillie Gifford & 
Co. increased its stake in Ryanair by 1.3% in the 2nd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,513,341 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $1,137,649,000 after purchasing an additional 140,012 shares during the 
period. Capital International Investors boosted its position in shares of Ryanair by 3.1% during the second quarter. 
Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares in the last quarter. FMR LLC boosted its holdings in 
Ryanair by 1.4% in the second quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $681,580,000 after acquiring an additional 87,015 shares in the last quarter. Lazard Asset Management 
LLC boosted its holdings in Ryanair by 6.3% in the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 
5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after acquiring an additional 296,366 
shares in the last quarter. Finally, William Blair Investment Management LLC boosted its holdings in Ryanair by 
14.3% in the second quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $243,862,000 after acquiring an additional 281,774 shares in the last quarter. 
Hedge funds and other institutional investors own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
A number of research firms recently commented on RYAAY. Credit Suisse Group reiterated an "outperform" rating 
on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Raymond James increased their target price 
on Ryanair from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the stock an "outperform" rating in a research report on Thursday, 
October 7th. Morgan Stanley reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, 
November 2nd. UBS Group reissued a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, 
September 28th. Finally, Oddo Bhf lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a research 
note on Monday, November 15th. Five analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued a 
FNY Investment Advisers LLC Sells 4,469 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
buy rating to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the company currently has a consensus 
rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.48. 
Shares of NASDAQ RYAAY[1] opened at $103.80 on Thursday. The business's 50 day moving average price is 
$113.69 and its 200-day moving average price is $111.20. The company has a market cap of $23.43 billion, a price-
to-earnings ratio of -29.49 and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair Holdings plc has a fifty-two week low of $94.68 and a fifty-
two week high of $127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio 
of 1.34.  
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: What Is Dividend Yield and How Do You Calculate It?[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/dividends/yield-calculator/ [ 
3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
Airlines shrug off Covid-19 lockdowns in Europe
Airlines shrug off Covid-19 lockdowns in Europe
 
Proactive Investors (UK)
November 25, 2021 Thursday 03:55 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Proactive UK Ltd All Rights Reserved
Length: 190 words
Byline: Jai Singh
Body
 Slovakia has become the second European country to announce a full lockdown, with Germany and the 
Netherlands tipped to follow suit shortly.
Slovakia, which currently has the world's highest infection rate, announced a two-week lockdown to curb the 
spiralling cases of the virus.  
Austria confirmed a 10-day lockdown this Monday, with Germany seemingly likely to follow suit after the number 
deaths in the country due to Covid-19 rose above 100,000.   Airlines have had a bumpy ride this week due to fears 
another bout of flying restrictions are on the way just as the industry was beginning to recover and consumers were 
starting to travel once again. 
Some airlines have cancelled flights, with Jet2 cancelling its flights and holidays to Austria until at least 1 
December. 
EasyJet currently has some flights booked into Austria for December, although that could change should 
restrictions remain in place.  
Wizz Air, which is the most focused of the London-listed airlines on central Europe, and Ryanair are the main 
budget airlines that fly to Slovakia from the UK. 
Shares in Wizz Air rose 1.2% to 4,406p and Ryanair by 1.2% to (EURO)15.90.
Airlines shrug off Covid-19 lockdowns in Europe
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives $132.75 Consensus Target Price from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Receives $132.75 Consensus Target 
Price from Brokerages
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
November 25, 2021 Thursday 12:11 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 778 words
Body
Nov 25, 2021( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have been assigned a consensus recommendation of "Buy" 
from the nineteen ratings firms that are currently covering the company, MarketBeat Ratings[1] reports. Five 
equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold recommendation and thirteen have issued a buy 
recommendation on the company. The average 12 month price objective among brokerages that have covered the 
stock in the last year is $132.75.  
RYAAY has been the subject of a number of recent research reports. Credit Suisse Group restated an "outperform" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft 
restated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
restated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. Barclays restated an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Morgan Stanley 
reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. 
Shares of RYAAY stock[2] opened at $103.80 on Monday. The firm has a market capitalization of $23.43 billion, a 
PE ratio of -29.49 and a beta of 1.56. The firm has a fifty day simple moving average of $113.69 and a two-hundred 
day simple moving average of $111.20. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-
to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of $127.25.  
Several large investors have recently modified their holdings of the stock. Optiver Holding B.V. purchased a new 
stake in Ryanair during the first quarter valued at about $13,878,000. Lazard Asset Management LLC increased its 
position in shares of Ryanair by 6.3% in the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares 
during the last quarter. Capital International Investors increased its position in shares of Ryanair by 3.1% in the 
second quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares during the last quarter. William Blair 
Investment Management LLC increased its position in shares of Ryanair by 14.3% in the second quarter. William 
Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$243,862,000 after purchasing an additional 281,774 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Pendal Group Ltd 
bought a new position in shares of Ryanair in the third quarter worth approximately $30,945,000. 43.91% of the 
stock is currently owned by institutional investors.  
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives $132.75 Consensus Target Price from Brokerages
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Bond[3] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/risk-of-owning-bonds/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives $132.75 Average Target Price from Brokerages
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Receives $132.75 Average Target 
Price from Brokerages
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
November 25, 2021 Thursday 12:11 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 809 words
Body
Nov 25, 2021( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has been given a consensus rating of "Buy" by the nineteen brokerages 
that are covering the stock, Marketbeat Ratings[1] reports. Five analysts have rated the stock with a hold 
recommendation and thirteen have issued a buy recommendation on the company. The average 12 month price 
target among brokers that have issued ratings on the stock in the last year is $132.75.  
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of recent analyst reports. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reissued a 
"buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. restated a 
"neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Credit Suisse Group restated an 
"outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Barclays restated an "overweight" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Raymond James upped their price 
objective on Ryanair from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the stock an "outperform" rating in a report on Thursday, 
October 7th. 
Several hedge funds have recently modified their holdings of the company. Baillie Gifford & Co. lifted its position in 
shares of Ryanair by 2.5% during the third quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,777,474 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $1,186,170,000 after purchasing an additional 264,133 shares during the last 
quarter. Capital International Investors lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 3.1% in the second quarter. Capital 
International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,067,172,000 
after acquiring an additional 294,131 shares during the last quarter. FMR LLC lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 1.4% 
in the second quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$681,580,000 after acquiring an additional 87,015 shares during the last quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 6.3% in the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after acquiring an additional 296,366 shares 
during the last quarter. Finally, Janus Henderson Group PLC lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 0.8% in the third 
quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$325,096,000 after acquiring an additional 23,924 shares during the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is currently 
owned by institutional investors and hedge funds.  
RYAAY stock[2] opened at $103.80 on Monday. Ryanair has a 1 year low of $94.68 and a 1 year high of $127.25. 
The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The stock's 50 day 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives $132.75 Average Target Price from Brokerages
moving average price is $113.69 and its 200 day moving average price is $111.20. The firm has a market cap of 
$23.43 billion, a P/E ratio of -29.49 and a beta of 1.56.  
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: What sectors are represented in the Hang Seng index?[3] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/price-target/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/market-indexes/HSI/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Sold by FNY Investment Advisers LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Sold by FNY Investment 
Advisers LLC
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
November 25, 2021 Thursday 2:05 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 845 words
Body
Nov 25, 2021( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 FNY Investment Advisers LLC reduced its stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 74.9% 
during the 3rd quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). The fund owned 1,500 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 4,469 shares 
during the period. FNY Investment Advisers LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $165,000 as of its most recent 
SEC filing.  
Other institutional investors also recently modified their holdings of the company. WealthShield Partners LLC 
boosted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 638.2% during the 2nd quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 
251 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after purchasing an additional 217 shares during 
the last quarter. Advisory Services Network LLC acquired a new position in Ryanair in the second quarter valued at 
approximately $46,000. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 532.2% in the second 
quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued 
at $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the last quarter. PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. 
acquired a new position in Ryanair in the second quarter valued at approximately $79,000. Finally, Captrust 
Financial Advisors lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 47.8% in the first quarter. Captrust Financial Advisors now owns 
1,524 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $175,000 after acquiring an additional 493 shares 
during the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY[1] opened at $103.80 on Thursday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 
week high of $127.25. The stock's fifty day moving average is $113.69 and its two-hundred day moving average is 
$111.20. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The stock 
has a market capitalization of $23.43 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -29.49 and a beta of 1.56.  
A number of research firms recently commented on RYAAY. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reiterated a "buy" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Credit Suisse Group reiterated an "outperform" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Raymond James upped their price objective on 
Ryanair from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the company an "outperform" rating in a report on Thursday, October 
7th. Finally, UBS Group restated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, September 
28th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a buy rating to the 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Sold by FNY Investment Advisers LLC
company's stock. According to MarketBeat.com, Ryanair presently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average 
target price of $122.48. 
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Story: Margin[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/trading-on-
margin/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 25, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 152 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1386 7.80 1890.2 1073 - -2.30 659.8 CompassX 1535 -20.50 1721.63 18.06 - -66.45 
1726.4 Dalata Hotel 332.00 10.00 414.50 272.00 - -12.68 2.2 easyJet 557.00 1.60 1095 6.81 - -1.83 4313.6 
FirstGrp 101.70 - 104.00 59.75 - 26.08 1248.3 Flutter Entertainment 10815 -225.00 19680.8 10573 - -271.73 504.0 
Fuller A 684.00 - 977.73 580.00 - -7.83 43.0 Go-Ahead 737.00 11.00 1463 683.03 - -6.88 300.7 IntCon Htels Gp 
4907 -24.00 46170 4389 - -4844.03 323.0 Intl Cons Air 152.78 1.32 222.10 2.06 - -1.58 23419.0 MandarO $ 2.24 
0.05 2.36 1.65 - -7.32 0.1 Marstons 74.10 -0.30 105.50 59.35 - -1.13 1356.1 Natl Exp 216.20 -4.40 413.50 206.70 - 
-4.66 1296.5 PPHE Htl 1340 -30.00 1800 1175 - -5.96 34.0 Restaurt 84.00 -1.10 140.00 52.56 - 8.83 1334.8 
Ryanair Holdings PLC 310.50 -1.50 338.60 250.00 1.06 52.63 177.5 TUI 213.60 0.50 580.20 202.50 - -1.44 4495.5 
Whitbrd 3024 14.00 3949.01 36.28 - -24.55 468.9
Load-Date: November 24, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) to Open New Base in Madeira , Add 10 New Routes
Ryanair (RYAAY) to Open New Base in Madeira, Add 10 New Routes
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
November 25, 2021 Thursday 4:35 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1133 words
Byline: Zacks Equity Research
Body
Nov 25, 2021( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings RYAAY[1] announced plans to open a new base in Madeira, Portugal during summer 2022. With 
two based aircraft and an investment of $200 million, this will be RYAAY's fifth base in Portugal. 
This new base will widen Ryanair's connectivity, with 10 new routes connecting Madeira with several European 
destinations, including mainland Portugal, throughout the year. With this, the carrier will offer more than 40 flights 
per week. 
The 10 new routes to Madeira, include services from Brussels Charleroi, Dublin, Lisbon, London Stansted Airport, 
Manchester, Marseille, Milan Bergamo, Nuremberg, Paris Beauvais and Porto. The services, set to launch during 
summer 
2022, 
are 
expected 
to 
attract 
substantial 
traffic. 
Ryanair 
Holdings 
PLC 
Price 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/chart/RYAAY/fundamental/price?icid=chart-RYAAY-fundamental/price 
Ryanair 
Holdings PLC price[2] | Ryanair Holdings PLC Quote[3] 
Ryanair's CEO, Eddie Wilson, said, 'This $200m investment will not only boost Portugal's economy by driving vital 
tourism but will also create more than 60 direct jobs in the region and over 400 on-site jobs in Madeira.'Wilson 
further added, 'At a time when other airlines are reducing their fleets and closing bases, we are delighted to 
continue to invest in both our people and airports in Portugal.' Zacks Rank & Key Picks Ryanair carries a Zacks 
Rank #4 (Sell). 
Here are some better-ranked stocks within the broader Transportation[4] sector: 
Schneider National SNDR[5] sports a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). The company has a stellar earnings surprise 
history, having outperformed the Zacks Consensus Estimate in each of the preceding four quarters, the average 
beat being 21%. You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank stocks here[6]. 
Shares of Schneider National have rallied more than 25% so far this year. 
Expeditors International of Washington EXPD[7] also sports a Zacks Rank #1. The company's earnings have 
surpassed the Zacks Consensus Estimate in each of the preceding four quarters, the average beat being 29.1%. 
Shares of Expeditors have appreciated nearly 34% so far this year. 
Landstar System LSTR[8] carries a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy). The company's earnings have trumped the Zacks 
Consensus Estimate in each of the trailing four quarters, the average beat being 11.4%. 
Shares of Landstar have gained more than 32% so far this year. 
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) to Open New Base in Madeira , Add 10 New Routes
 Breakout Biotech Stocks with Triple-Digit Profit Potential  
 The biotech sector is projected to surge beyond $2.4 trillion by 2028 as scientists develop treatments for thousands 
of diseases. They're also finding ways to edit the human genome to literally erase our vulnerability to these 
diseases. 
 Zacks has just released Century of Biology: 7 Biotech Stocks to Buy Right Now to help investors profit from 7 
stocks poised for outperformance. Recommendations from previous editions of this report have produced gains of 
+205%, +258% and +477%. The stocks in this report could perform even better. See these 7 breakthrough stocks 
now > >[9] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[10] Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[11] 
Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (EXPD): Free Stock Analysis Report[12] Landstar System, Inc. (LSTR): 
Free Stock Analysis Report[13] Schneider National, Inc. (SNDR): Free Stock Analysis Report[14] To read this 
article on Zacks.com click here.[15] Zacks Investment Research[16] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/chart/RYAAY/fundamental/price?icid=chart-RYAAY-fundamental/price 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY?icid=chart-RYAAY-fundamental/price 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/industry-rank/sector/transportation-15 [ 5]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/SNDR 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/buy-list/?ADID=zp_1link&ICID=zpi%20_1link 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/EXPD 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/LSTR 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/4e87?add=1725&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_BIOTECHREPORT_ANALYSTBLOG_257_11252021&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-
analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-1831887 
[ 
10]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-1831887 
[ 
11]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1831887 
[ 
12]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=EXPD&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1831887 
[ 
13]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=LSTR&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1831887 
[ 
14]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=SNDR&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1831887 [ 15]: http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1831887/ryanair-ryaay-to-open-new-base-in-
madeira-add-10-new-routes?cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-
1831887 [ 16]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) to Open New Base in Madeira , Add 10 New Routes
Load-Date: November 25, 2021
End of Document
FTSE makes progress as oil companies rallied on the crude price movement
FTSE makes progress as oil companies rallied on the crude price movement
 
Proactive Investors (UK)
November 24, 2021 Wednesday 10:31 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Proactive UK Ltd All Rights Reserved
Length: 261 words
Byline: Katie Pilbeam
Body
FTSE 100 made more progress as oil companies rallied on the crude price movement and product tester Intertek 
jumped after strong results. London's blue chip index was up 36 at 7,302 in early dealings.
Lord Bilimoria, the CBI's president, is to launch a stinging attack on prime minister Boris Johnson  over his plans for 
business. Bilimoria will tell the PM to stop 'hiking taxes and to focus on boosting investment.'
Ryanair's boss has warned that passengers might start delaying bookings due to rising Covid-19 cases in many 
countries.  Low consumer confidence is likely to cause a tough winter ahead, said Michael O'Leary.
Apple has filed a lawsuit against Israeli NSO group, the private spyware company, which has been accused of 
allowing foreign governments to hack into mobile phones. It mirrors a similar case launched by Whatsapp.
Among the small caps, Pembridge Resources perked up as it completed the "reverse takeover" of Minto Metals 
Corp. Trading in Minto begins in Toronto next week with Pembridge having an 11% stake in the venture.
Alen Metals has conditionally agreed to buy a 30% interest in the Munni Munni platinum  and gold project in 
Western Australia for a total of A$2.23mln (£1.2mln). The Munni Munni project in the Pilbara region is one of the 
largest undeveloped primary platinum resources in Australia 
Bradda head Lithium reported the best results so far from a 2021 drilling programme on its Burro Creek East (BCE) 
project in Arizona. Assay results from the first three new holes identified thicker intersections of Upper Clay than 
anticipated. 
FTSE makes progress as oil companies rallied on the crude price movement
Load-Date: November 24, 2021
End of Document
CITY MOVES WHO'S SWITCHING JOBS
CITY MOVES WHO'S SWITCHING JOBS
City A.M.
November 24, 2021 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 14
Length: 321 words
Body
EDISON London-based investment research and advisory group Edison appointed a new managing director to its 
investor relations team.
After beginning his career at the London Stock Exchange, Patrick Yau brings nearly two decades worth of 
experience to the position.
"The investment landscape today is more competitive and diverse than it has ever been… I am very excited to join 
the team and develop this service," said Yau.
The incoming director, once an equity research analyst for Kilik & Co, eventually moved into institutional broking 
and has held a number of positions at Nomura, Credit Suisse, Bridgewell and Peel Hunt.
Edison president Rachel Carroll added: "We are delighted to have someone of Patrick's calibre join the team as we 
continue to expand across Europe and North America."
KPMG UK hired a tax lawyer, boosting the firm's tax and law practice partner numbers to 114.
Based in London, Candice Nichol joins with 14 years' experience and will focus on the firm's large cap private 
equity clients on merger and acquisition transactions.
The appointment forms part of three fresh partner hires, as the Big Four firm seeks to bolster its financial services 
client support.
ENGAGE XR London-listed virtual reality (VR) technology firm ENGAGE XR has undergone a board shuffle, 
posting a new independent non-executive director.
CITY MOVES WHO'S SWITCHING JOBS
Former chief marketing officer for Ryanair, John Kevin
Jacobs - known as Kenny - joins the board with immediate effect.
It comes as non-executive director Harry Kloor steps down from the position.
Over his 20 year career, Jacobs has held several positions with business heavyweights such as Accenture, Metro 
Cash & Carry, MoneySuperMarket, Procter & Gamble, and Tesco in Ireland.
"I am delighted to welcome Kenny, in particular, as we prepare for the launch of our corporate metaverse in 2022, 
which will be a major milestone in the development of the group," non-executive chairman Richard Cooper said.
Load-Date: November 24, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair to launch new base in Portugal 's Madeira Airport
Ryanair to launch new base in Portugal's Madeira Airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 24, 2021 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: PORTUGAL; Automotive, Transport and Logistics
Length: 279 words
Highlight: Low-cost carrier Ryanair is set to open a new operational base at Madeira Airport (FNC) in Portugal, 
involving a $200m investment, in the third quarter of 2022.
Body
This marks the airline's fifth base in Portugal, where two new aircraft will be based. As part of this initiative, around 
ten new routes will be introduced, with 40 new weekly frequencies. 
Five of the new routes will link Madeira directly to new destinations. ANA CEO and Vinci Airports Portugal and 
Brazil director Thierry Ligonnière said: "Besides reinforcing the existing global partnership between VINCI Airports 
and Ryanair, this base will allow, through the opening of five new destinations routes in 2022, a significant increase 
in Madeira's air connectivity, boosting the diversification of tourist markets, so important for the recovery and growth 
of tourism in the region." According to Vinci Airports, Ryanair factored in the airport's appeal to carriers and 
passengers while deciding to launch a new base in Madeira. Currently, Ryanair is present in around 11 airports of 
Vinci Airports network. In a statement, Vinci Airports said: "In accordance with Vinci Airports' environmental 
ambition, ANA has driven the environmental transition in Madeira's airports, with initiatives in the areas of energy 
and climate change, circular economy and protection of natural resources, including the reforestation action carried 
out last 12 November in Porto Santo with the IFCN and the Regional Government, which will allow the offsetting of 
carbon emissions in the future." In September, Vinci Airports decided to work with Airbus and Air Liquide to 
expedite the decarbonisation of the aviation industry by promoting the use of hydrogen at airports. Vinci Airports, a 
private airport operator, manages 45 airports in 12 nations in Europe, Asia and North and South America.
Load-Date: December 8, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair to launch new base in Portugal 's Madeira Airport
Ryanair to launch new base in Portugal's Madeira Airport
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 24, 2021 Wednesday 12:06 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: PORTUGAL; Automotive, Transport and Logistics
Length: 279 words
Highlight: Low-cost carrier Ryanair is set to open a new operational base at Madeira Airport (FNC) in Portugal, 
involving a $200m investment, in the third quarter of 2022.
Body
This marks the airline's fifth base in Portugal, where two new aircraft will be based. As part of this initiative, around 
ten new routes will be introduced, with 40 new weekly frequencies. 
Five of the new routes will link Madeira directly to new destinations. ANA CEO and Vinci Airports Portugal and 
Brazil director Thierry Ligonnière said: "Besides reinforcing the existing global partnership between VINCI Airports 
and Ryanair, this base will allow, through the opening of five new destinations routes in 2022, a significant increase 
in Madeira's air connectivity, boosting the diversification of tourist markets, so important for the recovery and growth 
of tourism in the region." According to Vinci Airports, Ryanair factored in the airport's appeal to carriers and 
passengers while deciding to launch a new base in Madeira. Currently, Ryanair is present in around 11 airports of 
Vinci Airports network. In a statement, Vinci Airports said: "In accordance with Vinci Airports' environmental 
ambition, ANA has driven the environmental transition in Madeira's airports, with initiatives in the areas of energy 
and climate change, circular economy and protection of natural resources, including the reforestation action carried 
out last 12 November in Porto Santo with the IFCN and the Regional Government, which will allow the offsetting of 
carbon emissions in the future." In September, Vinci Airports decided to work with Airbus and Air Liquide to 
expedite the decarbonisation of the aviation industry by promoting the use of hydrogen at airports. Vinci Airports, a 
private airport operator, manages 45 airports in 12 nations in Europe, Asia and North and South America.
Load-Date: November 24, 2021
End of Document
Planes Take The Strain Over Fears About Soaring Infections In Europe Affecting Bookings
Planes Take The Strain Over Fears About Soaring Infections In Europe 
Affecting Bookings
Newstex Blogs 
ValueWalk
November 24, 2021 Wednesday 5:05 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 905 words
Body
Nov 24, 2021( ValueWalk: https://www.valuewalk.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 skeeze[1] / Pixabay 
International Consolidated Airlns Grp SA (LON:IAG) down 2.9% Ryanair Holdings plc (LON:RYA) down 2.7% 
easyJet plc (LON:EZJ) down 3% Wizz Air Holdings PLC (LON:WIZZ) down 2% Rolls-Royce Holding PLC (LON:RR) 
down 2.1% 
Get The Full Walter Schloss Series in PDF 
 Get the entire 10-part series on Walter Schloss in PDF. Save it to your desktop, read it on your tablet, or email to 
your colleagues. 
 Q3 2021 hedge fund letters, conferences and more[2] 
UK Airline Stocks Dip 
"The dip in early trading among airline stocks[3] has intensified with British Airways owner IAG, Easyjet, Ryanair 
and Wizz Air nose-diving as fears about soaring infections in Europe take hold. Rolls Royce was also dragged 
lower as it is highly sensitive to the fortunes of the airline industry, given that its core business of making and 
servicing engines for long-haul aircraft is based on the number of hours its engines are in the air. 
Schonfeld Strategic's Fundamental Equity Fund Returns 7% In 2021 
 Schonfeld Strategic Advisors' Fundamental Equity Fund LLC returned 0.0% in the month of October according to a 
copy of the firm's monthly investor tear sheet, which ValueWalk has been able to review. Q3 2021 hedge fund 
letters, conferences and more The multi-strategy, multi-manager firm has been managing money and allocation 
funds for investors for 32 Read More[4] 
Their descent comes amid warnings from the World Health Organisation that there could be an additional 700 
thousand new deaths in the region, taking the total to 2.2 million by March. This has caused fresh turbulence for 
airline companies, which had glimpsed light through the clouds as bookings, especially on lucrative transatlantic 
Planes Take The Strain Over Fears About Soaring Infections In Europe Affecting Bookings
routes were expected to bounce back in the Spring. But there are now concerns that surging infections and 
lockdowns will depress the confidence of the travelling[5] public. Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary has warned of a 
fraught period, with passengers deterred by this dramatic wave of infections from making bookings. Adding to the 
fragility are warnings from a parliamentary committee that new swathes of red tape could tie up journeys from the 
UK to Europe next year due to new border management systems coming into force. 
 Fortunes haven't been helped by the oil price staying stubbornly high, with the benchmark Brent Crude above $82 
a barrel, despite the co-ordinated release led by the US of strategic oil reserves. There are worries that the oil cartel 
OPEC[6] and its allies might hold off plans to increase production which is keeping prices higher. The upwards path 
of the oil price is a particular concern for the airline sector given that fuel makes up 25 - 30% of the operating costs 
of an airline. Although hedging may give some airlines breathing space for now, it's still an ongoing worry. WizzAir 
which is unhedged on fuel has already said it's expecting particular turbulence through the winter months as it 
navigates much higher costs and a substantial operating loss for the third quarter is forecast. There were high 
hopes that brighter skies would emerge by the Spring but now storm clouds appear to be gathering over the sector 
once again." 
 Article by Susannah Streeter, senior investment and markets analyst, Hargreaves Lansdown 
About Hargreaves Lansdown 
 Over 1.67 million clients trust us with 138.0 billion (as at 30 September 2021), making us the UK's number one 
platform for private investors. More than 98% of client activity is done through our digital channels and over 600,000 
access our mobile app each month. 
 Updated on Nov 24, 2021, 12:02 pm 
 [ 1]: https://pixabay.com/users/skeeze/ [ 2]: https://valuewalkpremium.com/q3-2021-hedge-fund-letters/ [ 3]: 
https://www.valuewalk.com/airline-stocks-go-full-throttle-but-inflation-worries-linger/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://valuewalkpremium.com/schonfeld-strategics-fundamental-equity-fund-returns-7-in-2021/ 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.valuewalk.com/coronavirus-stimulus-checks-to-artists/ 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.valuewalk.com/oanda-
maintaining-continuity-at-the-fed-stocks-rally-us-data-stronger-dollar-as-yields-rise-opec-plays-hardball-gold-hurt-
bitcoin-struggles/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 24, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 24, 2021 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 21
Length: 154 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1378.2 -8.80 1890.2 1073 - -2.28 733.6 CompassX 1555.5 83.00 1721.63 18.06 - -67.34 
3387.0 Dalata Hotel 322.00 -15.00 414.50 272.00 - -12.30 1.0 easyJet 555.40 7.00 1095 6.81 - -1.83 9682.9 
FirstGrp 101.70 -0.40 104.00 59.75 - 26.08 904.5 Flutter Entertainment 11040 -335.00 19680.8 10573 - -277.39 
856.3 Fuller A 684.00 24.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.83 51.9 Go-Ahead 726.00 -2.50 1463 683.03 - -6.77 618.9 IntCon 
Htels Gp 4931 35.00 46170 4389 - -4867.72 373.8 Intl Cons Air 151.46 3.32 222.10 2.06 - -1.57 19612.5 MandarO 
$ 2.19 -0.07 2.36 1.65 - -7.14 56.8 Marstons 74.40 -0.10 105.50 59.35 - -1.13 1481.1 Natl Exp 220.60 1.00 413.50 
206.70 - -4.75 782.3 PPHE Htl 1370 -6.00 1800 1175 - -6.09 1.7 Restaurt 85.10 -2.00 140.00 52.56 - 8.95 1244.1 
Ryanair Holdings PLC 312.00 -2.00 338.60 250.00 1.06 52.88 306.4 TUI 213.10 1.40 580.20 204.00 - -1.44 3646.1 
Whitbrd 3010 19.00 3949.01 36.28 - -24.43 505.3
Load-Date: November 23, 2021
End of Document
Airline Stock Roundup: 2022 Summer Schedule From RYAAY, DAL , ALK in Focus
Airline Stock Roundup: 2022 Summer Schedule From RYAAY, DAL, ALK in 
Focus
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
November 24, 2021 Wednesday 8:45 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1442 words
Byline: Maharathi Basu
Body
Nov 24, 2021( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 In the past week, European carrier Ryanair Holdings RYAAY[1].unveiled its schedule for next year's summer. On a 
more somber note, RYAAY's CEO Michael O'Leary reportedly[2] warned that following the renewed surge in 
COVID-19 cases in Europe, Christmas travel and early bookings for summer are likely to be disrupted. 
Alaska Air Group's ALK[3] subsidiary Alaska Airlines launched nonstop services to Belize City, Belize from Seattle 
and Los Angeles. With air-travel demand picking up in the United States, management at Delta Air Lines DAL[4] 
stated that it expects to transport up to 5.6 million passengers in the Thanksgiving period this year. Additionally, 
American Airlines AAL[5] and JetBlue Airways JBLU[6] are seeking the dismissal of the lawsuit filed against their 
alliance. 
Read the last Airline Roundup here[7] Recap of the Latest Top Stories 1. As part of its summer 2022 schedule, 
Ryanair is adding 24 new routes to popular European destinations. RYAAY will operate more than 500 services 
from the UK airports next summer. Management said that adding 65 B737-8200 'Gamechanger' aircraft to its fleet 
by next summer will make the schedule 'the most sustainable and environmentally friendly'. This is because the 
B737-8200 'Gamechanger' aircraft offers 4% more seats, 16% less fuel and a 40% reduction in noise emissions. As 
part of its sustainable operations, RYAAY launched electric handling at 11 major European airports. The 24 new 
routes include Birmingham to Zadar, Bournemouth to Bergerac and Zadar, London (Luton Airport) to Burgas, 
Catania and Lublin, London (Stansted Airport) to Menorca and Madeira, Manchester to Vienna and Madeira as well 
as Newcastle to Ibiza, Zadar, Chania and Riga. 
2. With the winter holiday season round the corner, Alaska Airlines began a seasonal service running through May 
22, 2022, to Belize city from Seattle (Seattle-Tacoma International Airport) and a year-round service from Los 
Angeles (Los Angeles International Airport) on Nov 19. From Los Angeles, Alaska Airlines is operating flights four 
times per week to Belize City while from Seattle, it is running twice-weekly flights. The new flights to Belize add to 
the airline's existing services to Canada, Mexico and Costa Rica from its West Coast hubs[8]. 
3. Delta, currently carrying a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell), expects to transport up to 5.6 million passengers in the 
Thanksgiving period. The projection implies a significant increase from the actual number of passengers (2.2 
million) transported by DAL over the Thanksgiving period last year. With friends, families and relatives expected to 
connect during this phase, leisure travel is expected to get a boost. 
Airline Stock Roundup: 2022 Summer Schedule From RYAAY, DAL , ALK in Focus
To boost operations during the busy period, Delta made additional hirings in customer service and reservations. 
DAL also boosted its strength regarding flight attendants to meet the anticipated increase in the number of flights in 
operation. 
You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here[9]. 
4. Per a CNBC report[10], American Airlines and JetBlue asked a U.S. judge to dismiss the lawsuit filed in 
September on antitrust grounds by the Justice Department (DOJ) and officials in six states. AAL and JBLU are 
asking for the lawsuit to be dismissed as the DOJ failed to justify the claim that the alliance, which is already in 
operation, hurt competition or escalated prices. Performance The following table shows the price movement of the 
major airline players over the past week and during the last six months. 
Image Source: Zacks Investment Research 
The table above shows that most airline stocks have traded in the red over the past week, causing the NYSE ARCA 
Airline Index to decrease 2.3% to $85.26. Over the past six months, the NYSE ARCA Airline Index has depreciated 
19.5%. What's Next in the Airline Space? With air-travel demand picking up in the United States, expansion-related 
updates can be expected from U.S.-based carriers. 
 Zacks' Top Picks to Cash in on Artificial Intelligence 
 This world-changing technology is projected to generate $100s of billions by 2025. From self-driving cars to 
consumer data analysis, people are relying on machines more than we ever have before. Now is the time to 
capitalize on the 4th Industrial Revolution. Zacks' urgent special report reveals 6 AI picks investors need to know 
about today. See 6 Artificial Intelligence Stocks With Extreme Upside Potential > >[11] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[12] Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[13] 
Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL): Free Stock Analysis Report[14] JetBlue Airways Corporation (JBLU): Free Stock 
Analysis Report[15] American Airlines Group Inc. (AAL): Free Stock Analysis Report[16] Alaska Air Group, Inc. 
(ALK): Free Stock Analysis Report[17] To read this article on Zacks.com click here.[18] Zacks Investment 
Research[19] 
 [ 1]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY [ 2]: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ryanair-ceo-sees-fraught-end-
143304292.html [ 3]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/ALK [ 4]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/DAL [ 5]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/AAL 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/JBLU 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1829563/airline-stock-roundup-q3-earnings-results-of-cpa-algt-ual-aal-save-in-
focus?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID04-txt-1829563 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1831008/alaska-air-alk-arm-launches-belize-flights-from-west-coast-
hubs?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID01-txt-1831008 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/buy-
list/?ADID=zp_1link&ICID=zpi%20_1link [ 10]: https://www.cnbc.com/2021/11/22/american-jetblue-seek-dismissal-
of-antitrust-lawsuit-tied-to-partnership.html 
[ 
11]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/4e87?add=1749&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_AIREPORT_B_ANALYSTBLOG_213_IND_11242021&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-
1831577 
[ 
12]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1831577 
[ 
13]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1831577 [ 
14]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=DAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1831577 
[ 
15]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=JBLU&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1831577 
[ 
16]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=AAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
Airline Stock Roundup: 2022 Summer Schedule From RYAAY, DAL , ALK in Focus
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1831577 
[ 
17]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=ALK&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1831577 
[ 
18]: 
http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1831577/airline-stock-roundup-2022-summer-schedule-from-ryaay-dal-alk-
in-focus?cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1831577 [ 19]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 24, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) to Add 24 New Routes to UK Summer '22 Schedule
Ryanair (RYAAY) to Add 24 New Routes to UK Summer '22 Schedule
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
November 24, 2021 Wednesday 4:15 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1097 words
Byline: Zacks Equity Research
Body
Nov 24, 2021( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings RYAAY[1] has announced its UK summer 2022 schedule. The airline is adding 24 new routes to 
popular European destinations. It will operate more than 500 services from UK airports next summer. 
Ryanair said that the addition of 65 new B737-8200 Gamechanger aircraft to its fleet by next summer will make its 
schedule 'the most sustainable and environmentally friendly.' This is because the B737-8200 Gamechanger aircraft 
offers 4% more seats, uses 16% less fuel and provides 40% reduction in noise emissions compared to its current 
fleet. As part of its sustainable operations, RYAAY has launched electric handling at 11 major European airports. 
The 24 new routes include Birmingham to Zadar; Bournemouth to Bergerac and Zadar; London (Luton Airport) to 
Burgas, Catania and Lublin; London (Stansted Airport) to Menorca and Madeira; Manchester to Vienna and 
Madeira; as well as Newcastle to Ibiza, Zadar, Chania and Riga. Ryanair Holdings PLC Price 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/chart/RYAAY/fundamental/price?icid=chart-RYAAY-fundamental/price 
Ryanair 
Holdings PLC price[2] | Ryanair Holdings PLC Quote[3] 
 Ryanair, carrying a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell), is offering these services at a sale price of 29.99 for travel through the 
end of October 2022. To avail this offer, seats must be booked by Nov 25 midnight. Key Picks Here are some 
better-ranked stocks within the broader Transportation[4] sector: 
Schneider National SNDR[5] sports a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). The company has a stellar earnings surprise 
history, having outperformed the Zacks Consensus Estimate in each of the preceding four quarters, the average 
beat being 21%. You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank stocks here[6]. 
Shares of Schneider National have rallied more than 26% so far this year. 
Expeditors International of Washington EXPD[7] also sports a Zacks Rank #1. The company's earnings have 
surpassed the Zacks Consensus Estimate in each of the preceding four quarters, the average beat being 29.1%. 
Shares of Expeditors have appreciated nearly 36% so far this year. 
Landstar System LSTR[8] carries a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy). The company's earnings have trumped the Zacks 
Consensus Estimate in each of the trailing four quarters, the average beat being 11.4%. 
Shares of Landstar have gained more than 32% so far this year. 
 Zacks' Top Picks to Cash in on Artificial Intelligence 
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) to Add 24 New Routes to UK Summer '22 Schedule
 This world-changing technology is projected to generate $100s of billions by 2025. From self-driving cars to 
consumer data analysis, people are relying on machines more than we ever have before. Now is the time to 
capitalize on the 4th Industrial Revolution. Zacks' urgent special report reveals 6 AI picks investors need to know 
about today. See 6 Artificial Intelligence Stocks With Extreme Upside Potential > >[9] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[10] Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[11] 
Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (EXPD): Free Stock Analysis Report[12] Landstar System, Inc. (LSTR): 
Free Stock Analysis Report[13] Schneider National, Inc. (SNDR): Free Stock Analysis Report[14] To read this 
article on Zacks.com click here.[15] Zacks Investment Research[16] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/chart/RYAAY/fundamental/price?icid=chart-RYAAY-fundamental/price 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY?icid=chart-RYAAY-fundamental/price 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/industry-rank/sector/transportation-15 [ 5]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/SNDR 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/buy-list/?ADID=zp_1link&ICID=zpi%20_1link 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/EXPD 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/LSTR 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/4e87?add=1749&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_AIREPORT_B_ANALYSTBLOG_257_11242021&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1831444 
[ 
10]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-1831444 
[ 
11]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1831444 
[ 
12]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=EXPD&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1831444 
[ 
13]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=LSTR&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1831444 
[ 
14]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=SNDR&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1831444 [ 15]: http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1831444/ryanair-ryaay-to-add-24-new-routes-
to-uk-summer-22-schedule?cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-
1831444 [ 16]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 24, 2021
End of Document
24 November 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
24 November 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
Newstex Blogs 
AirInsight
November 24, 2021 Wednesday 11:10 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 589 words
Byline: Addison Schonland
Body
Nov 24, 2021( AirInsight: http://airinsight.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Welcome to Morning Call for 24 November 2021, and the Top Aviation News Stories for today. You can also 
search 
our 
archives[1] 
for 
older 
news 
stories 
by 
date. 
AirInsight 
US 
Airline 
Index 
https://i1.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/11.24.1.jpg?ssl=1 https://i1.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-
content/uploads/2021/11/11.24.2.jpg?ssl=1 
https://i1.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-
content/uploads/2021/11/11.24.3.jpg?ssl=1 Commercial Aviation 
Boeing and Airbus back at battle - LiveMint[2] South Sudan Airline Operators Want Authorities to Lift Ban on 
Antonovs - TheTowerPost[3] A319neo flies with 100% sustainable aviation fuel - AerospaceDesign[4] SpiceJet to 
induct 50 Boeing 737 Max - TheHindu[5] 
 Business Aviation 
Airlines 
The 8 airline passengers on the FAA's latest list of worst behavior - DailyBreeze[6] UK Follows EU in Probe of IAG's 
Proposed Buy of Air Europa - AIN[7] Ryanair sees travel rebound threatened by European lockdowns - AJOT[8] 
 Urban Air Mobility 
 Companies join forces to bring urban air mobility to South Korea - SmartCitiesWorld[9] 
 Social Media 
 The team behind the ACCEL project - YouTube[10] 
Please follow and like us: 
 [ 
1]: 
https://airinsight.com/?s=morning+call&et_pb_searchform_submit=et_search_proccess&et_pb_include_posts=yes [ 
2]: 
https://www.livemint.com/companies/news/airbus-and-boeing-resume-their-dogfight-in-the-skies-
11637660386748.html [ 3]: https://thetowerpost.com/2021/11/23/south-sudan-airline-operators-want-authorities-to-
lift-ban-on-antonovs/ [ 4]: https://www.aerospacemanufacturinganddesign.com/article/airbus-a319neo-flies-100-
percent-sustainable-aviation-fuel-/ [ 5]: https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/economy/logistics/spicejet-to-induct-
50-boeing-737-max/article37652176.ece [ 6]: https://www.dailybreeze.com/2021/11/23/the-8-airline-passengers-on-
the-faas-latest-list-of-worst-behavior/ [ 7]: https://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/air-transport/2021-11-23/uk-
24 November 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
follows-eu-probe-iags-proposed-buy-air-europa [ 8]: https://ajot.com/news/ryanair-sees-travel-rebound-threatened-
by-european-lockdowns 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.smartcitiesworld.net/news/companies-join-forces-to-bring-urban-air-
mobility-to-south-korea-7162 [ 10]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KFS-hQ3WOzw 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 24, 2021
End of Document
Italy 's new airline ITA takes off
Italy's new airline ITA takes off
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
November 23, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 852 words
Body
The iconic Alitalia logo has for five decades been an integral part of the Made in Italy brand. Alitalia was considered 
the jewel in the crown of public investment and went a long way in helping Italy export its excellent products to the 
rest of the world. But now, this national carrier has been grounded. Its place was taken by ITA (Italia Trasporti 
Aereo), a new state-owned airline that took off on October 15.
The European airlines' industry faces formidable challenges as legacy airlines fight for market share with nimble 
low-cost airlines. Governments keep defending their national carriers. Still the EU, conscious of the overcapacity in 
the market, gets stricter on preventing state aid from flowing in the coffers of inefficient airlines.
The Italian taxpayers poured (EURO)13 billion between 1974 to today to keep Alitalia flying. Successive 
governments believed that this was a cost worth paying as they never imagined that brand Italy could be successful 
without the support of the national carrier. Aviation analysts are asking whether ITA is just a clone of Alitalia or a 
more innovative airline that is likely to overcome the structural weakness of the old carrier.
ITA bought the Alitalia brand for (EURO)90 million, a bargain compared to the initial pricing of (EURO)290 million. 
However, it will not use this brand as ITA only wanted to prevent other airlines like Ryanair from taking over the 
brand that many travellers still appreciate. But the critical question that many are asking is whether ITA, with its 
slimmed-down business model, can compete with low-cost airlines that are increasingly dominating the short- and 
medium-haul European market.
ITA starts life with just 52 planes and less than 3,000 workers. By 2025 it forecasts that it will increase its fleet to 78 
with a workforce that will at best number 5,700 employees. Alitalia's last headcount amounted to 10,400 workers.
The negotiations with the European Commission were characterised by some harsh conditions imposed on ITA. 
ITA has to compete in a tendering process to hold on to the ground handling and maintenance activities which no 
longer form part of the new airline's operations. The airlines' unions are furious about the conditions imposed on 
workers by ITA. The new airline has slimmed down the workforce and offered its employees a significantly worse 
contract than under Alitalia.
Aviation analysts are asking whether ITA is just a clone of Alitalia or a more innovative airline that is likely to 
overcome the structural weakness of the old carrier.
Italy 's new airline ITA takes off
Not surprisingly, the pilots union is the most vociferous in criticising ITA's business plan. Ivan Viglietti, head of the 
pilots section of the air transport union Uiltrasporti, argues: "We have not been in the least summoned or consulted 
by the government which instead went to deal in Europe on an industrial level, a plan that we know only through the 
newspapers and press releases of the institutions. Unfortunately, everything we feared emerges from the plan 
approved for ITA".
Viglietti fears that ITA will not have the critical mass of operations that it needs to be viable in the context of the 
tough competition coming, especially from low-cost airlines that keep increasing their market share.
ITA CEO Fabio Lazzerini is aware of the effect of reduced operations. He believes it is a "necessity" for ITA to strike 
a deal with the state railways Ferrovie dello Stato to get a competitive advantage over low-cost airlines. Italian high-
speed rail has helped undermine Alitalia's business model. So ITA aims to partner with rail operators for combined 
rail-and-fly tickets - a move made by several former flag carriers as they look to offer something different to no-frills 
rivals.
The success of ITA's new business model will significantly depend on its ability to join an alliance. Lazzerini 
considers this as "fundamental" to his company's future and argues: "The world of airlines is made up of alliances. It 
is difficult to be alone".
Italian taxpayers are wondering what the new venture will cost them. ITA starts life with (EURO)1.35 billion of new 
money injected by the Italian government. According to Corriere della Sera, ITA is expected to lose (EURO)1.9 
million a day in its start-up phase. ITA's business plan projects a profit of (EURO)100 million only in 2024.
Political obstacles will be unavoidable for ITA as they have been for other struggling national carriers. Airline 
alliances would be interested in taking over ITA, which still holds the Italian market. But will the Italian government 
be ready to sell off a majority stake in its "new" jewel in the portfolio of public investments?
The ghosts of Alitalia's multiple unsuccessful restructuring efforts might still haunt the new ITA. timesofmalta.com
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
DIRECTOR DEALINGS: New MaxCyte chair buys USD220,000 in shares
DIRECTOR DEALINGS: New MaxCyte chair buys USD220,000 in shares
Alliance News UK
November 23, 2021 Tuesday 4:21 PM GMT
Copyright 2021 Alliance News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 304 words
Body
(Alliance News) - The following is a round-up of share dealings by London-listed company directors and managers 
announced on Tuesday and not separately reported by Alliance News:
----------
MaxCyte Inc - Maryland-based platform for cell-based research - Richard Douglas, who was promoted to chair 
earlier this month, buys 20,000 shares at average USD11.12, worth USD222,480, on Monday. The purchase on 
Nasdaq in New York is his only share holding, though he also has 131,600 stock options.
----------
Harbour Energy PLC - North Sea-focused oil and gas - Non-Executive Director Anne Stevens buys 30,000 shares 
at average 400.05p, worth GBP120,016, on Monday. The purchase is her only holding.
----------
James Cropper PLC - paper products manufacturer based in Cumbria - Chair Mark Cropper buys 3,700 shares at 
GBP15.00, worth GBP55,500, on Friday last week. The shares were bought from two members of the Cropper 
family, which are part of the concert party, so his beneficial shareholding remains unchanged at 1.9 million shares, 
a 19% stake. The total interest of the concert party is 3.6 million shares, a 38% stake. 
----------
Ryanair Holdings PLC - Dublin-based airline - Non-Executive Director Geoff Doherty buys 3,000 shares at 
EUR15.84, worth EUR47,505, on Friday last week in Dublin.
----------
DIRECTOR DEALINGS: New MaxCyte chair buys USD220,000 in shares
Anglo Asian Mining PLC - gold, copper and silver producer in Azerbaijan - Non-Executive Director John Monhemius 
buys 25,000 shares at 112.90p, worth GBP28,225, on Tuesday. Monhemius now has 366,890 shares, a 0.3% 
stake.
----------
Sareum Holdings PLC - Cambridge, England-based drug developer for cancer and autoimmune diseases - Non-
Executive Chair Stephen Parker buys 277,777 shares at 3.6p, worth GBP10,000, on Tuesday.
----------
By Tom Waite; thomaslwaite@alliancenews.com
Copyright 2021 Alliance News Limited. All Rights Reserved.
Load-Date: November 23, 2021
End of Document
BA owner IAG at risk of watchdog probe over deal
BA owner IAG at risk of watchdog probe over deal
City A.M.
November 23, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7
Length: 288 words
Byline: ILARIA GRASSO MACOLA
Body
BRITISH Airways's owner IAG could face a formal investigation by the UK Competition and Markets Authority 
(CMA) over the proposed takeover of Spanish carrier Air Europa.
The watchdog announced yesterday that it is "considering whether this transaction, if carried into effect, will result in 
the creation of a relevant merger situation" that could lead to "a substantial lessening of competition" in the UK 
market.
The CMA launched an inquiry on Friday into the £420m merger, inviting all stakeholders involved to send their 
comments by the 29 November.
The watchdog will announce its decision by 19 January, even though the CMA "cannot guarantee that the decision 
will be announced on or before this current deadline, as the deadline of a given case may change during the merger 
assessment process due to different reasons."
"We will collaborate with the CMA," said a company spokesperson. "The London-Madrid route is highly competitive 
and is already part of the European Commission process."
According to David Warnock-Smith, professor of aviation management at Buckinghamshire New University, the 
takeover could have serious consequences for the UK-Spain market.
"When looking at market share, however, it is clear that IAG already wields significant market power on this route 
pairing with as much as 66 per cent of all seats offered in the month of November 2021," he told City A.M.
BA owner IAG at risk of watchdog probe over deal
"Ryanair, Air Europa and Easyjet only offered 20, 10 and four per cent of total seat capacity respectively in 
November, leading to an overall near duopolistic market situation despite the presence of four carrier groups.
The CMA is not the first body to probe into IAG's deal. In June, the European Commission opened an investigation 
in the purchase.
Load-Date: November 23, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Forecasts Bumpy Period Amid Rising COVID-19 Concerns In Europe
Ryanair Forecasts Bumpy Period Amid Rising COVID-19 Concerns In Europe
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
November 23, 2021 Tuesday 11:44 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 107 words
Body
 Ryanair (RY4C.IR, RYA.L) is bracing for a tougher period over the upcoming months, as COVID-19 concerns are 
on the rise again, potentially damaging Christmas travel and bookings for the summer, Reuters reported Tuesday, 
citing Chief Executive Michael O'Leary.
O'Leary said that up until last week everything was going fine, with volumes back to pre-pandemic levels. Now a 
wave of new restrictions and Austria calling for a new lockdown is creating concerns about Christmas and New 
Year travel bookings, the report said. 
Shares of the low-cost air carrier were up 2% on Tuesday afternoon. 
Price (GBP): £15.59, Change: £+0.10, Percent Change: +0.65%
Load-Date: November 23, 2021
End of Document
Belarus : EU to target firms trafficking migrants with 'blacklist'
Belarus: EU to target firms trafficking migrants with 'blacklist'
Newstex Blogs 
Deutsche Welle World
November 23, 2021 Tuesday 5:20 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 657 words
Body
Nov 23, 2021( Deutsche Welle World: http://www.dw.de/top-stories/world/s-1429 Delivered by Newstex)  
 European Union chief Ursula von der Leyen sharply criticized Belarus for channeling migrants to its border, saying 
the move is a clear effort by Lukashenko to "destabilize the bloc."European Commission head Ursula von der 
Leyen said the EU would create a watchlist to deter intermediaries from transporting migrants to Belarus. 
Speaking at the European Parliament, von der Leyen said Brussels would stand in solidarity with Poland, Latvia, 
and Lithuania. 
She rejected the idea that there was a migrant crisis at Europe's eastern frontier, saying instead that it was an 
attempt by Belarus to "destabilize the bloc." 
What is the latest plan? 
Von der Leyen said she would propose rules to European Parliament lawmakers to "blacklist all means and modes 
of transport involved in trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants." 
"Today the Commission is putting forward a legislative proposal to do this," she said. 
Von der Leyen said the EU did not recognize President Alexander Lukashenko's regime, which the bloc says is 
using migration as a weapon. 
"It is the EU as a whole that is being challenged," von der Leyen said. "This is not a migration crisis. This is the 
attempt of an authoritarian regime to try to destabilize its democratic neighbors." 
"We agreed that to counter this behavior, it is important to coordinate our sanctions and to work with countries of 
origin and the airlines that are transporting migrants to Minsk." 
The commission chief said the EU was coordinating with the United States, Britain, and Canada on a new package 
of sanctions. 
Belarus airline barred from leasing jets 
Also, speaking to Strasbourg lawmakers, European Council President Charles Michel said the bloc was already 
planning to ban Belarus airline Belavia from leasing jets as part of the censure program. 
He told lawmakers that a decision by member states on an expanded sanctions package was "imminent." It would 
include the ban on leasing planes from EU-based companies, he said. 
Several other airlines have already halted or cut down on flights to Minsk since the EU complained that migrants 
were being tempted to Belarus with false promises about a route into the EU.  
Migrants — many of them fleeing war and poverty in countries such as Syria and Afghanistan — have been 
entering the European Union from Belarus, particularly via Poland. 
Belarus : EU to target firms trafficking migrants with 'blacklist'
Belarus is already under sanctions from Brussels for its crackdown on protesters who rejected elections held last 
year as fraudulent.  
Minsk officials also forcibly grounded a Ryanair plane in May to arrest a dissident journalist on board. 
rc/rs (AFP, Reuters, dpa) 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 23, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 23, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 153 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1387 -5.20 1890.2 1073 - -2.30 849.7 CompassX 1472.5 -7.00 1721.63 18.06 - -63.74 
2192.4 Dalata Hotel 337.00 -8.00 414.50 272.00 - -12.87 12.3 easyJet 548.40 -6.80 1095 6.81 - -1.81 4304.0 
FirstGrp 102.10 0.50 104.00 59.75 - 26.18 1503.3 Flutter Entertainment 11375 -170.00 19680.8 11275 - -285.80 
296.2 Fuller A 660.00 -18.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.56 46.7 Go-Ahead 728.50 4.50 1463 683.03 - -6.80 49.8 IntCon 
Htels Gp 4896 -9.00 46170 4389 - -4833.17 301.3 Intl Cons Air 148.14 -0.36 222.10 2.06 - -1.53 28086.9 MandarO 
$ 2.26 - 2.36 1.65 - -7.35 0.3 Marstons 74.50 -0.60 105.50 59.35 - -1.13 1539.7 Natl Exp 219.60 -8.40 413.50 
206.70 - -4.73 1543.3 PPHE Htl 1376 2.00 1800 1175 - -6.12 5.3 Restaurt 87.10 1.10 140.00 52.56 - 9.16 2008.2 
Ryanair Holdings PLC 314.00 -1.00 338.60 250.00 1.05 53.22 251.2 TUI 211.70 2.30 580.20 204.00 - -1.43 2698.9 
Whitbrd 2991 -22.00 3949.01 36.28 - -24.28 617.3
Load-Date: November 22, 2021
End of Document
Belarus : EU to target firms trafficking migrants with 'blacklist'
Belarus: EU to target firms trafficking migrants with 'blacklist'
Newstex Blogs 
Deutsche Welle Europe
November 23, 2021 Tuesday 5:20 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 657 words
Body
Nov 23, 2021( Deutsche Welle Europe: http://www.dw.de/top-stories/europe/s-1433 Delivered by Newstex)  
 European Union chief Ursula von der Leyen sharply criticized Belarus for channeling migrants to its border, saying 
the move is a clear effort by Lukashenko to "destabilize the bloc."European Commission head Ursula von der 
Leyen said the EU would create a watchlist to deter intermediaries from transporting migrants to Belarus. 
Speaking at the European Parliament, von der Leyen said Brussels would stand in solidarity with Poland, Latvia, 
and Lithuania. 
She rejected the idea that there was a migrant crisis at Europe's eastern frontier, saying instead that it was an 
attempt by Belarus to "destabilize the bloc." 
What is the latest plan? 
Von der Leyen said she would propose rules to European Parliament lawmakers to "blacklist all means and modes 
of transport involved in trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants." 
"Today the Commission is putting forward a legislative proposal to do this," she said. 
Von der Leyen said the EU did not recognize President Alexander Lukashenko's regime, which the bloc says is 
using migration as a weapon. 
"It is the EU as a whole that is being challenged," von der Leyen said. "This is not a migration crisis. This is the 
attempt of an authoritarian regime to try to destabilize its democratic neighbors." 
"We agreed that to counter this behavior, it is important to coordinate our sanctions and to work with countries of 
origin and the airlines that are transporting migrants to Minsk." 
The commission chief said the EU was coordinating with the United States, Britain, and Canada on a new package 
of sanctions. 
Belarus airline barred from leasing jets 
Also, speaking to Strasbourg lawmakers, European Council President Charles Michel said the bloc was already 
planning to ban Belarus airline Belavia from leasing jets as part of the censure program. 
He told lawmakers that a decision by member states on an expanded sanctions package was "imminent." It would 
include the ban on leasing planes from EU-based companies, he said. 
Several other airlines have already halted or cut down on flights to Minsk since the EU complained that migrants 
were being tempted to Belarus with false promises about a route into the EU.  
Migrants — many of them fleeing war and poverty in countries such as Syria and Afghanistan — have been 
entering the European Union from Belarus, particularly via Poland. 
Belarus : EU to target firms trafficking migrants with 'blacklist'
Belarus is already under sanctions from Brussels for its crackdown on protesters who rejected elections held last 
year as fraudulent.  
Minsk officials also forcibly grounded a Ryanair plane in May to arrest a dissident journalist on board. 
rc/rs (AFP, Reuters, dpa) 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 23, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Consensus Recommendation of "Buy" from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Receives Consensus 
Recommendation of "Buy" from Analysts
American Banking and Market News
November 22, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 594 words
Body
Ryanair Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have received an average recommendation of "Buy" 
from the nineteen ratings firms that are currently  covering the firm, MarketBeat.com  reports. Five investment 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a buy rating to  the company. The average 
12-month price objective among brokerages that have issued a report on the stock in the last year is $132.75.  
•
Airline Stocks - Top Airline Stocks to Buy Now 
RYAAY has been the subject of a number of recent analyst reports. Oddo Bhf lowered shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Credit Suisse Group  restated an 
"outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Redburn Partners upgraded shares 
of Ryanair from a "neutral" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 price objective for the company in a report on 
Tuesday, July 27th. Peel Hunt upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on 
Friday, September 17th. Finally, UBS Group  restated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on 
Tuesday, September 28th. 
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $105.89 on Monday. The company has a fifty day moving average of $113.81 and a 
200 day moving average of $111.48. Ryanair has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of $127.25. The 
company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The firm has a market 
capitalization of $23.90 billion, a P/E ratio of -30.08 and a beta of 1.56.  
Hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently made changes to their positions in the company. 
WealthShield Partners LLC raised its stake in  Ryanair by 638.2% during the 2nd quarter. WealthShield Partners 
LLC now owns 251 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after acquiring an additional 217 
shares during the period.  Assetmark Inc. raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 133.6% during the third 
quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $30,000 after buying 
an additional 155 shares during the last quarter.  Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new stake in shares of  
Ryanair during the second quarter valued at approximately $46,000.  JFS Wealth Advisors LLC bought a new stake 
in shares of  Ryanair during the third quarter valued at approximately $47,000.  Finally, Rockefeller Capital 
Management L.P. raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 532.2% during the second quarter. Rockefeller Capital 
Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after buying an 
additional 463 shares during the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other 
institutional investors.  
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Consensus Recommendation of "Buy" from Analysts
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: How prevalent are 12b-1 fees? 
This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order 
to provide readers with the fastest and most accurate reporting. This story was reviewed by MarketBeat's editorial 
team prior to publication. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com
Load-Date: November 22, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Given Consensus Rating of "Buy" by Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Given Consensus Rating of "Buy" 
by Analysts
American Banking and Market News
November 22, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 500 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) has received an average rating of "Buy" from the nineteen 
brokerages that are  covering the firm, MarketBeat  reports. Five analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating 
and thirteen have assigned  a buy rating to  the company. The average 12-month target price among brokers that 
have covered the stock in the last year is $132.75.  
RYAAY has been the subject of several recent research reports. Credit Suisse Group  restated an "outperform" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Raymond James lifted their price objective on 
Ryanair from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the company an "outperform" rating in a report on Thursday, October 
7th. Redburn Partners upgraded Ryanair from a "neutral" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 price objective 
for the company in a report on Tuesday, July 27th. Morgan Stanley  restated an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Peel Hunt upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" 
rating in a report on Friday, September 17th. 
A number of hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently modified their holdings of the stock. Bank of 
New York Mellon Corp boosted its position in  Ryanair by 1.0% in the third quarter. Bank of New York Mellon Corp 
now owns 1,464,054 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $161,134,000 after buying an 
additional 14,166 shares during the last quarter.  Janus Henderson Group PLC boosted its position in  Ryanair by 
0.8% in the third quarter. Janus Henderson Group PLC now owns 2,953,810 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $325,096,000 after buying an additional 23,924 shares during the last quarter.  
Rehmann Capital Advisory Group purchased a new stake in  Ryanair in the third quarter valued at approximately 
$212,000.  Migdal Insurance & Financial Holdings Ltd. purchased a new stake in  Ryanair in the third quarter valued 
at approximately $91,000.  Finally, Squarepoint Ops LLC purchased a new stake in  Ryanair in the third quarter 
valued at approximately $1,299,000. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own  43.91% of the company's 
stock.  
Shares of RYAAY  opened at $105.89 on Monday. The firm has a market capitalization of $23.90 billion, a P/E ratio 
of -30.08 and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-month high of $127.25. The company 
has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The firm has a fifty day moving 
average price of $113.81 and a 200-day moving average price of $111.48.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Given Consensus Rating of "Buy" by Analysts
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: What is a Stop Order? 
Load-Date: November 22, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Consensus Recommendation of "Buy" from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Receives Consensus 
Recommendation of "Buy" from Analysts
American Banking and Market News
November 22, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 530 words
Body
Ryanair Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) have received an average recommendation of "Buy" 
from the nineteen ratings firms that are currently  covering the firm, MarketBeat.com  reports. Five investment 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a buy rating to  the company. The average 
12-month price objective among brokerages that have issued a report on the stock in the last year is $132.75.  
RYAAY has been the subject of a number of recent analyst reports. Oddo Bhf lowered shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday, November 15th. Credit Suisse Group  restated an 
"outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Redburn Partners upgraded shares 
of Ryanair from a "neutral" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 price objective for the company in a report on 
Tuesday, July 27th. Peel Hunt upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on 
Friday, September 17th. Finally, UBS Group  restated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on 
Tuesday, September 28th. 
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $105.89 on Monday. The company has a fifty day moving average of $113.81 and a 
200 day moving average of $111.48. Ryanair has a 52 week low of $94.68 and a 52 week high of $127.25. The 
company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The firm has a market 
capitalization of $23.90 billion, a P/E ratio of -30.08 and a beta of 1.56.  
Hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently made changes to their positions in the company. 
WealthShield Partners LLC raised its stake in  Ryanair by 638.2% during the 2nd quarter. WealthShield Partners 
LLC now owns 251 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after acquiring an additional 217 
shares during the period.  Assetmark Inc. raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 133.6% during the third 
quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $30,000 after buying 
an additional 155 shares during the last quarter.  Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new stake in shares of  
Ryanair during the second quarter valued at approximately $46,000.  JFS Wealth Advisors LLC bought a new stake 
in shares of  Ryanair during the third quarter valued at approximately $47,000.  Finally, Rockefeller Capital 
Management L.P. raised its position in shares of  Ryanair by 532.2% during the second quarter. Rockefeller Capital 
Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after buying an 
additional 463 shares during the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other 
institutional investors.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Receives Consensus Recommendation of "Buy" from Analysts
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: How prevalent are 12b-1 fees? 
Load-Date: November 22, 2021
End of Document
--S&P Revises Ryanair Outlook To Stable From Negative On Air Traffic Recovery; 'BBB' Ratings Affirmed
--S&P Revises Ryanair Outlook To Stable From Negative On Air Traffic 
Recovery; 'BBB' Ratings Affirmed
MT Newswires Live Briefs
November 22, 2021 Monday 5:25 PM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 1 words
Load-Date: November 22, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair CEO Urges Passengers To Switch Away From 'Polluting' Airlines
Ryanair CEO Urges Passengers To Switch Away From 'Polluting' Airlines
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
November 22, 2021 Monday 11:34 PM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 101 words
Body
 Ryanair (RYA.L, RY4C.IR) boss asked air travelers to opt for his airline if they want to cut their environmental 
footprint in half in intra-European Union travel, Bloomberg News reported Monday.
Chief Executive Officer Michael O'Leary called out International Consolidated Airlines Group's (IAG.L) British 
Airways, Deutsche Lufthansa (LHA.DE), Air France-KLM's (AF.PA) Air France for being "tax-exempt, polluting" 
airlines.
Ryanair's shares fell about 2%, while International Consolidated Airlines Group's shares decreased marginally on 
Monday's close.
Price (GBP): £15.58, Change: £-0.34, Percent Change: -2.10%
Load-Date: November 23, 2021
End of Document
S&P Maintains Ryanair's Rating, Improves Outlook to Stable from Negative on Sustained Air Traffic Recovery
S&P Maintains Ryanair's Rating, Improves Outlook to Stable from Negative 
on Sustained Air Traffic Recovery
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
November 22, 2021 Monday 11:08 PM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 138 words
Body
 S&P Global Ratings on Monday revised its outlook on Ryanair's (RYA.L, RY4C.IR) BBB rating to stable from 
negative on an expected recovery in air passenger traffic.
The budget airline's EBITDA and operating cash flow are expected to turn positive in the fiscal year ending March 
31, 2022, and results are expected to improve further in fiscal 2023 but remain below the pre-COVID-19 levels.
S&P expects intra-European air traffic to recover to 60% to 75% of pre-pandemic levels in 2022 and 80% to 90% in 
2023, and increase to 2019 levels by 2024.
The stable outlook reflects the expectation that the air passenger traffic recovery will continue, leading to positive 
EBITDA for the company in the second half of fiscal 2022.
Ryanair's stock fell more than 2% on Monday's close.
Price (GBP): £15.58, Change: £-0.34, Percent Change: -2.10%
Load-Date: November 23, 2021
End of Document
State Street Corp Purchases 36,818 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
State Street Corp Purchases 36,818 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
November 21, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 618 words
Body
Ryanair State Street Corp grew its position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 31.1% during 
the 2nd quarter, according to its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The firm 
owned 155,365 shares of the transportation company's stock after buying an additional 36,818 shares during the 
period. State Street Corp owned approximately 0.07% of Ryanair worth $16,812,000 at the end of the most recent 
quarter.  
A number of other hedge funds have also recently bought and sold shares of the business. Baillie Gifford & Co. 
increased its position in  Ryanair by 1.3% during the 2nd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,513,341 shares 
of the transportation company's stock worth $1,137,649,000 after buying an additional 140,012 shares during the 
period.  FMR LLC increased its position in shares of  Ryanair by 1.4% in the second quarter. FMR LLC now owns 
6,298,681 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $681,580,000 after purchasing an additional 87,015 
shares during the period.  Lazard Asset Management LLC increased its position in shares of  Ryanair by 6.3% in 
the second quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares during the period.  William Blair 
Investment Management LLC increased its position in shares of  Ryanair by 14.3% in the second quarter. William 
Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$243,862,000 after purchasing an additional 281,774 shares during the period.  Finally, Bank of New York Mellon 
Corp increased its position in shares of  Ryanair by 1.5% in the second quarter. Bank of New York Mellon Corp now 
owns 1,449,888 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $156,892,000 after purchasing an additional 
21,560 shares during the period. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair stock  opened at $105.89 on Friday. The stock's 50 day moving average is $113.81 and its 200 day moving 
average is $111.52. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. 
The firm has a market cap of $23.90 billion, a P/E ratio of -30.08 and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one 
year low of $94.68 and a one year high of $127.25.  
RYAAY has been the topic of a number of recent analyst reports. Oddo Bhf cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating 
to a "neutral" rating in a research report on Monday, November 15th. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Morgan Stanley  
reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. JPMorgan 
Chase & Co.  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. 
State Street Corp Purchases 36,818 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Finally, Peel Hunt upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 
17th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a buy rating to 
the stock. Based on data from MarketBeat.com, the company  has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus 
price target of $122.48. 
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: What is the cash asset ratio? 
Load-Date: November 21, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair drops UK listing to meet EU's Brexit rules
Ryanair drops UK listing to meet EU's Brexit rules
Financial Times (London, England)
November 20, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 384 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS
Body
Ryanair yesterday confirmed it would quit the London Stock Exchange next month to comply with EU ownership 
rules that have hit the airline industry since the UK has left the bloc.
The move will end the Irish carrier's 20- year listing on the LSE in one of the clearest examples of how the UK's exit 
from the EU has affected London's capital markets.
Ryanair warned earlier this month that it was considering leaving the LSE because of EU rules requiring airlines to 
be owned and controlled by nationals from within the bloc, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein.
The airline has barred non-EU individuals from buying shares for nearly 20 years, and in January extended this to 
institutions and individuals in the UK after the country left the bloc.
Ryanair expects the last day of trading in its London-listed shares to be December 17. Its primary listing is on 
Euronext in Dublin, but London has long been a more liquid market for the stock.
However, the volume of its shares traded on the LSE has tumbled and now comprises just 10 per cent of the total, 
according to calculations by Mark Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody.
"The volume of trading of the shares on the London Stock Exchange does not justify the costs," the airline 
www.said.UK shareholders who held Ryanair shares before January have been able to keep their holdings but are 
Ryanair drops UK listing to meet EU's Brexit rules
barred from attending or voting at annual meetings. But the carrier has struggled to keep new UK investors out. It 
had to eject some UK shareholders in September through the forced sale of 1m shares.
"UK [shareholders] can continue to hold if they want, but will have to now sell through Euronext should they want to 
do so," Simpson said of those who owned the shares before Britain left the
EU. Ryanair is one of several airlines forced to change its corporate structure to comply with airline ownership rules 
in order to protect their ability to fly freely within the EU after Brexit.
Wizz Air has also taken away the voting rights of UK shareholders, while easyJet has set up a Vienna-based airline 
to carry out its European operations.
British Airways owner International Airlines Group, an Anglo-Spanish company, has not recently disclosed a 
breakdown of its ownership, but the Spanish and Irish regulators have declared that it complies with EU rules.
Graphic
 
Ryanair is among several airlines that have changed share ownership rules to meet EU regulations
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair drops UK listing to meet EU's Brexit rules
Ryanair drops UK listing to meet EU's Brexit rules
Financial Times (London, England)
November 20, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 384 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS
Body
Ryanair yesterday confirmed it would quit the London Stock Exchange next month to comply with EU ownership 
rules that have hit the airline industry since the UK has left the bloc.
The move will end the Irish carrier's 20- year listing on the LSE in one of the clearest examples of how the UK's exit 
from the EU has affected London's capital markets.
Ryanair warned earlier this month that it was considering leaving the LSE because of EU rules requiring airlines to 
be owned and controlled by nationals from within the bloc, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein.
The airline has barred non-EU individuals from buying shares for nearly 20 years, and in January extended this to 
institutions and individuals in the UK after the country left the bloc.
Ryanair expects the last day of trading in its London-listed shares to be December 17. Its primary listing is on 
Euronext in Dublin, but London has long been a more liquid market for the stock.
However, the volume of its shares traded on the LSE has tumbled and now comprises just 10 per cent of the total, 
according to calculations by Mark Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody.
"The volume of trading of the shares on the London Stock Exchange does not justify the costs," the airline 
www.said.UK shareholders who held Ryanair shares before January have been able to keep their holdings but are 
Ryanair drops UK listing to meet EU's Brexit rules
barred from attending or voting at annual meetings. But the carrier has struggled to keep new UK investors out. It 
had to eject some UK shareholders in September through the forced sale of 1m shares.
"UK [shareholders] can continue to hold if they want, but will have to now sell through Euronext should they want to 
do so," Simpson said of those who owned the shares before Britain left the
EU. Ryanair is one of several airlines forced to change its corporate structure to comply with airline ownership rules 
in order to protect their ability to fly freely within the EU after Brexit.
Wizz Air has also taken away the voting rights of UK shareholders, while easyJet has set up a Vienna-based airline 
to carry out its European operations.
British Airways owner International Airlines Group, an Anglo-Spanish company, has not recently disclosed a 
breakdown of its ownership, but the Spanish and Irish regulators have declared that it complies with EU rules.
Graphic
 
Ryanair is among several airlines that have changed share ownership rules to meet EU regulations
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair drops UK listing to meet EU's Brexit rules
Ryanair drops UK listing to meet EU's Brexit rules
Financial Times (London, England)
November 20, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 384 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS
Body
Ryanair yesterday confirmed it would quit the London Stock Exchange next month to comply with EU ownership 
rules that have hit the airline industry since the UK has left the bloc.
The move will end the Irish carrier's 20- year listing on the LSE in one of the clearest examples of how the UK's exit 
from the EU has affected London's capital markets.
Ryanair warned earlier this month that it was considering leaving the LSE because of EU rules requiring airlines to 
be owned and controlled by nationals from within the bloc, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein.
The airline has barred non-EU individuals from buying shares for nearly 20 years, and in January extended this to 
institutions and individuals in the UK after the country left the bloc.
Ryanair expects the last day of trading in its London-listed shares to be December 17. Its primary listing is on 
Euronext in Dublin, but London has long been a more liquid market for the stock.
However, the volume of its shares traded on the LSE has tumbled and now comprises just 10 per cent of the total, 
according to calculations by Mark Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody.
"The volume of trading of the shares on the London Stock Exchange does not justify the costs," the airline 
www.said.UK shareholders who held Ryanair shares before January have been able to keep their holdings but are 
Ryanair drops UK listing to meet EU's Brexit rules
barred from attending or voting at annual meetings. But the carrier has struggled to keep new UK investors out. It 
had to eject some UK shareholders in September through the forced sale of 1m shares.
"UK [shareholders] can continue to hold if they want, but will have to now sell through Euronext should they want to 
do so," Simpson said of those who owned the shares before Britain left the
EU. Ryanair is one of several airlines forced to change its corporate structure to comply with airline ownership rules 
in order to protect their ability to fly freely within the EU after Brexit.
Wizz Air has also taken away the voting rights of UK shareholders, while easyJet has set up a Vienna-based airline 
to carry out its European operations.
British Airways owner International Airlines Group, an Anglo-Spanish company, has not recently disclosed a 
breakdown of its ownership, but the Spanish and Irish regulators have declared that it complies with EU rules.
Graphic
 
Ryanair is among several airlines that have changed share ownership rules to meet EU regulations
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair drops UK listing to meet EU's Brexit rules
Ryanair drops UK listing to meet EU's Brexit rules
Financial Times (London, England)
November 20, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 15
Length: 384 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS
Body
Ryanair yesterday confirmed it would quit the London Stock Exchange next month to comply with EU ownership 
rules that have hit the airline industry since the UK has left the bloc.
The move will end the Irish carrier's 20- year listing on the LSE in one of the clearest examples of how the UK's exit 
from the EU has affected London's capital markets.
Ryanair warned earlier this month that it was considering leaving the LSE because of EU rules requiring airlines to 
be owned and controlled by nationals from within the bloc, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein.
The airline has barred non-EU individuals from buying shares for nearly 20 years, and in January extended this to 
institutions and individuals in the UK after the country left the bloc.
Ryanair expects the last day of trading in its London-listed shares to be December 17. Its primary listing is on 
Euronext in Dublin, but London has long been a more liquid market for the stock.
However, the volume of its shares traded on the LSE has tumbled and now comprises just 10 per cent of the total, 
according to calculations by Mark Simpson, an aviation analyst at Goodbody.
"The volume of trading of the shares on the London Stock Exchange does not justify the costs," the airline 
www.said.UK shareholders who held Ryanair shares before January have been able to keep their holdings but are 
Ryanair drops UK listing to meet EU's Brexit rules
barred from attending or voting at annual meetings. But the carrier has struggled to keep new UK investors out. It 
had to eject some UK shareholders in September through the forced sale of 1m shares.
"UK [shareholders] can continue to hold if they want, but will have to now sell through Euronext should they want to 
do so," Simpson said of those who owned the shares before Britain left the
EU. Ryanair is one of several airlines forced to change its corporate structure to comply with airline ownership rules 
in order to protect their ability to fly freely within the EU after Brexit.
Wizz Air has also taken away the voting rights of UK shareholders, while easyJet has set up a Vienna-based airline 
to carry out its European operations.
British Airways owner International Airlines Group, an Anglo-Spanish company, has not recently disclosed a 
breakdown of its ownership, but the Spanish and Irish regulators have declared that it complies with EU rules.
Graphic
 
Ryanair is among several airlines that have changed share ownership rules to meet EU regulations
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Sells 1,908 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Sells 1,908 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
November 20, 2021 Saturday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 555 words
Body
Ryanair Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lessened its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 3.8% 
during the second quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. The firm owned 48,241 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 1,908 shares during 
the period. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $5,220,000 as of its most recent filing with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
A number of other institutional investors and hedge funds have also bought and sold shares of RYAAY. 
WealthShield Partners LLC increased its position in  Ryanair by 638.2% during the 2nd quarter. WealthShield 
Partners LLC now owns 251 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after buying an additional 
217 shares during the period.  Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new position in  Ryanair during the 2nd 
quarter worth $46,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. increased its position in  Ryanair by 532.2% during 
the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $58,000 after buying an additional 463 shares during the period.  PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. 
bought a new position in  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter worth $79,000.  Finally, Captrust Financial Advisors 
increased its position in  Ryanair by 47.8% during the 1st quarter. Captrust Financial Advisors now owns 1,524 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $175,000 after buying an additional 493 shares during the 
period. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $105.89 on Friday. The stock's 50-day simple moving average is $113.81 and its 200 
day simple moving average is $111.55. The firm has a market capitalization of $23.90 billion, a PE ratio of -30.08 
and a beta of 1.56. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. 
Ryanair Holdings plc has a twelve month low of $94.68 and a twelve month high of $127.25.  
Several research analysts have weighed in on the company. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Credit Suisse Group  reissued 
an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
reissued a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Morgan Stanley  reissued an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Barclays  reissued an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Five investment analysts have 
rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned  a buy rating to the stock. Based on data from 
MarketBeat, Ryanair  has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of $122.48. 
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Sells 1,908 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Debt-To-Equity Ratio 
Load-Date: November 20, 2021
End of Document
Saturday papers: Bank interest rate rise may be steeper than expected
Saturday papers: Bank interest rate rise may be steeper than expected
Citywire
November 20, 2021 Saturday 5:06 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 688 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And top Fed official opens door to faster ‘taper’ of bond-buying programme.
Body
Top stories
•
The Times: The Bank of England’s chief economist has raised the prospect that its first interest rate rise 
could be steeper than previously thought as concerns grow about inflation.
•
Financial Times: The US Federal Reserve’s vice-chair opened the door to a faster withdrawal of its 
massive bond-buying programme, suggesting the central bank could take earlier-than-expected action to 
tame inflation.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Ryanair will delist its shares from the London Stock Exchange next month to comply 
with Brussels rules it said were aimed at undermining the UK’s aviation sector.
•
Financial Times: Germany’s central bank head has set up a clash over eurozone monetary policy by 
warning that inflation is likely to stay above the European Central Bank’s target for longer than expected.
•
Financial Times: Carmakers are no longer just struggling to match Tesla on electric vehicle technology, but 
are scrambling to come close on production too.
•
Financial Times: The US House of Representatives passed the $1.75tn Build Back Better bill, sending Joe 
Biden’s ambitious social spending package to the Senate, where it faces an uncertain fate.
Business and economics
•
The Guardian: Retail sales in Great Britain rose for the first time in six months in October as consumers 
started their Christmas shopping earlier than usual to avoid missing out if there was a shortage of goods.
•
The Times: Profits at Nationwide have more than doubled to £853 million in the past six months, driven by 
higher lending margins during the pandemic.
•
The Times: The lasting shift towards working from home has meant there is plenty of enthusiasm for DIY, 
prompting Kingfisher to raise its profit guidance.
•
The Guardian: Almost £2bn was wiped off the value of UK airlines and travel-related companies on Friday 
as Austria’s decision to order a national lockdown stoked fears of the introduction of new pandemic 
restrictions across Europe.
Saturday papers: Bank interest rate rise may be steeper than expected
•
The Daily Telegraph: Ocado shot to the top of the FTSE 100 on Friday on speculation that Marks & 
Spencer is mulling a buyout of Ocado’s grocery website.
•
Financial Times: Japan’s new prime minister has unveiled a ¥43.7tn ($383bn) stimulus package, including 
generous cash handouts for households and help for struggling businesses.
•
The Guardian: Energy regulator Ofgem has set out plans to tweak the energy price cap more often to keep 
pace with fast-moving market prices, in a move that could mean over 15 million households face higher 
bills more often.
•
The Daily Telegraph: Rolls-Royce’s battery-powered plane reached a top speed of 387 miles per hour in 
tests, which may make it the world’s fastest all-electric vehicle.
•
The Times: Dr Martens has won a legal battle against Inditex, the Spanish clothing conglomerate that owns 
Zara, after a judge agreed that it had ripped off one of the bootmaker’s designs.
•
The Times: Government borrowing is falling more slowly than expected as rising inflation makes it more 
expensive to service the national debt.
Share tips, comment and bids
•
The Daily Telegraph (Questor share tips): HOLD Regional Reit; HOLD Urban Logistics Reit.
•
Financial Times: South Korea’s music agencies are rushing to go public to capitalise on rising global 
demand for K-pop that has pushed entertainment sector listings in the country to a record high.
•
Daily Mail: Joe Garner, the boss of Britain's biggest building society, Nationwide, has hit out at 
demutualisations as he waded into the row over the sale of LV.
•
Daily Mail: Gopher Investments, the second-biggest shareholder in Playtech that was pondering a bid 
thought to be worth £3bn, has dropped out of the three-way takeover battle for the gambling technology 
firm.
•
The Guardian: The American broadcaster NBC has renewed its television deal with the Premier League in 
a new six-year agreement worth £2bn.
•
The Times: Lord Rothermere’s offer to take Daily Mail and General Trust private ran into further opposition 
when a City fund manager, JO Hambro Capital Management, speaking for more than 5% of the shares, 
said it would not vote for the present offer.
•
The Times (Comment): Switch to London is not the only big decision for Shell.
Load-Date: November 20, 2021
End of Document
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Sells 1,908 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Sells 1,908 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
November 20, 2021 Saturday 10:05 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 795 words
Body
Nov 20, 2021( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lessened its holdings in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 3.8% during the 
second quarter, according to the company in its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The firm owned 48,241 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 1,908 shares during the period. 
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s holdings in Ryanair were worth $5,220,000 as of its most recent filing with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
A number of other institutional investors and hedge funds have also bought and sold shares of RYAAY. 
WealthShield Partners LLC increased its position in Ryanair by 638.2% during the 2nd quarter. WealthShield 
Partners LLC now owns 251 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after buying an additional 
217 shares during the period. Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new position in Ryanair during the 2nd 
quarter worth $46,000. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. increased its position in Ryanair by 532.2% during the 
2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $58,000 after buying an additional 463 shares during the period. PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. 
bought a new position in Ryanair during the 2nd quarter worth $79,000. Finally, Captrust Financial Advisors 
increased its position in Ryanair by 47.8% during the 1st quarter. Captrust Financial Advisors now owns 1,524 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $175,000 after buying an additional 493 shares during the 
period. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY[1] opened at $105.89 on Friday. The stock's 50-day simple moving average is $113.81 and its 
200 day simple moving average is $111.55. The firm has a market capitalization of $23.90 billion, a PE ratio of -
30.08 and a beta of 1.56. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 
0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a twelve month low of $94.68 and a twelve month high of $127.25.  
Several research analysts have weighed in on the company. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Credit Suisse Group reissued an 
"outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reissued a 
"neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Morgan Stanley reissued an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Finally, Barclays reissued an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Five investment analysts have 
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Sells 1,908 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned a buy rating to the stock. Based on data from 
MarketBeat, Ryanair has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of $122.48. 
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Debt-To-Equity Ratio[2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/calcuulate-debt-to-equity-ration/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 20, 2021
End of Document
RYANAIR TO DROP LONDON LISTING
RYANAIR TO DROP LONDON LISTING
Wall Street Journal Abstracts
November 20, 2021 Saturday
Copyright 2021 The New York Times Company: Abstracts All Rights Reserved
Section: B; Pg. 3
Length: 29 words
Byline: BEN DUMMETT, BENJAMIN KATZ
Body
ABSTRACT
Ryanair Holdings PLC plans to drop its London listing, citing low trading volumes and desire to accelerate efforts to 
comply with European Union ownership requirements (M)
Load-Date: November 21, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 20, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 23
Length: 150 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1392.2 -33.00 1890.2 1073 - -2.31 1783.6 CompassX 1479.5 -81.50 1721.63 18.06 - -
64.05 5626.4 Dalata Hote337.00 -8.00 414.50 272.00 - -12.87 2.2 easyJet 555.20 -15.40 1095 6.81 - -1.83 8540.1 
FirstGrp 101.60 -0.80 104.00 59.75 - 26.05 1995.8 Flutter Ent11545 40.00 19680.8 11430 - -290.08 528.7 Fuller A 
678.00 -8.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.77 27.6 Go-Ahead 724.00 -23.50 1463 683.03 - -6.75 62.6 IntCon Htel4905 -75.00 
46170 4389 - -4842.05 705.8 Intl Cons A148.50 -5.82 222.10 2.06 - -1.53 59766.9 MandarO $ 2.26 0.02 2.36 1.65 - 
-7.32 59.3 Marstons 75.10 -2.15 105.50 59.35 - -1.14 2384.5 Natl Exp 228.00 -9.80 413.50 206.70 - -4.91 3264.0 
PPHE Htl 1374 12.00 1800 1175 - -6.11 8.5 Restaurt 86.00 -2.30 140.00 52.56 - 9.04 3422.4 Ryanair Hol 315.00 -
1.00 338.60 250.00 1.05 53.39 377.1 TUI 209.40 -5.30 580.20 204.00 - -1.42 11587.7 Whitbrd 3013 -70.00 3949.01 
36.28 - -6.25 1462.0
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 20, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 151 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1392.2 -33.00 1890.2 1073 - -2.31 1783.6 CompassX 1479.5 -81.50 1721.63 18.06 - -
64.05 5626.4 Dalata Hote 337.00 -8.00 414.50 272.00 - -12.87 2.2 easyJet 555.20 -15.40 1095 6.81 - -1.83 8540.1 
FirstGrp 101.60 -0.80 104.00 59.75 - 26.05 1995.8 Flutter Ent 11545 40.00 19680.8 11430 - -290.08 528.7 Fuller A 
678.00 -8.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.77 27.6 Go-Ahead 724.00 -23.50 1463 683.03 - -6.75 62.6 IntCon Htel 4905 -75.00 
46170 4389 - -4842.05 705.8 Intl Cons A 148.50 -5.82 222.10 2.06 - -1.53 59766.9 MandarO $ 2.26 0.02 2.36 1.65 
- -7.32 59.3 Marstons 75.10 -2.15 105.50 59.35 - -1.14 2384.5 Natl Exp 228.00 -9.80 413.50 206.70 - -4.91 3264.0 
PPHE Htl 1374 12.00 1800 1175 - -6.11 8.5 Restaurt 86.00 -2.30 140.00 52.56 - 9.04 3422.4 Ryanair Hol 315.00 -
1.00 338.60 250.00 1.05 53.39 377.1 TUI 209.40 -5.30 580.20 204.00 - -1.42 11587.7 Whitbrd 3013 -70.00 3949.01 
36.28 - -6.25 1462.0
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 20, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 157 words
Body
Travel & Leisure  Carnival 1392.2 -33.00 1890.2 1073 - -2.31 1783.6   CompassX 1479.5 -81.50 1721.63 18.06 - -
64.05 5626.4   Dalata Hote 337.00 -8.00 414.50 272.00 - -12.87 2.2   easyJet 555.20 -15.40 1095 6.81 - -1.83 
8540.1   FirstGrp 101.60 -0.80 104.00 59.75 - 26.05 1995.8   Flutter Ent 11545 40.00 19680.8 11430 - -290.08 
528.7   Fuller A 678.00 -8.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.77 27.6   Go-Ahead 724.00 -23.50 1463 683.03 - -6.75 62.6   
IntCon Htel 4905 -75.00 46170 4389 - -4842.05 705.8   Intl Cons A 148.50 -5.82 222.10 2.06 - -1.53 59766.9   
MandarO $ 2.26 0.02 2.36 1.65 - -7.32 59.3   Marstons 75.10 -2.15 105.50 59.35 - -1.14 2384.5   Natl Exp 228.00 -
9.80 413.50 206.70 - -4.91 3264.0   PPHE Htl 1374 12.00 1800 1175 - -6.11 8.5   Restaurt 86.00 -2.30 140.00 
52.56 - 9.04 3422.4   Ryanair Hol 315.00 -1.00 338.60 250.00 1.05 53.39 377.1   TUI 209.40 -5.30 580.20 204.00 - 
-1.42 11587.7   Whitbrd 3013 -70.00 3949.01 36.28 - -6.25 1462.0
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 20, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 151 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1392.2 -33.00 1890.2 1073 - -2.31 1783.6 CompassX 1479.5 -81.50 1721.63 18.06 - -
64.05 5626.4 Dalata Hote 337.00 -8.00 414.50 272.00 - -12.87 2.2 easyJet 555.20 -15.40 1095 6.81 - -1.83 8540.1 
FirstGrp 101.60 -0.80 104.00 59.75 - 26.05 1995.8 Flutter Ent 11545 40.00 19680.8 11430 - -290.08 528.7 Fuller A 
678.00 -8.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.77 27.6 Go-Ahead 724.00 -23.50 1463 683.03 - -6.75 62.6 IntCon Htel 4905 -75.00 
46170 4389 - -4842.05 705.8 Intl Cons A 148.50 -5.82 222.10 2.06 - -1.53 59766.9 MandarO $ 2.26 0.02 2.36 1.65 
- -7.32 59.3 Marstons 75.10 -2.15 105.50 59.35 - -1.14 2384.5 Natl Exp 228.00 -9.80 413.50 206.70 - -4.91 3264.0 
PPHE Htl 1374 12.00 1800 1175 - -6.11 8.5 Restaurt 86.00 -2.30 140.00 52.56 - 9.04 3422.4 Ryanair Hol 315.00 -
1.00 338.60 250.00 1.05 53.39 377.1 TUI 209.40 -5.30 580.20 204.00 - -1.42 11587.7 Whitbrd 3013 -70.00 3949.01 
36.28 - -6.25 1462.0
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF Buys Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc , Marriott ...
SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF Buys Hilton Worldwide 
Holdings Inc, Marriott ...
Newstex Blogs 
GuruFocus.com
November 20, 2021 Saturday 12:05 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1759 words
Body
Nov 19, 2021( GuruFocus.com: http://www.gurufocus.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Investment company SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF [1] (Current Portfolio[2]) buys Hilton 
Worldwide Holdings Inc, Marriott International Inc, Royal Caribbean Group, Ryanair Holdings PLC, Delta Air Lines 
Inc during the 3-months ended 2021Q3, according to the most recent filings of the investment company, 
SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF. As of 2021Q3, SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines 
ETF owns 59 stocks with a total value of $5 million. These are the details of the buys and sells. 
Added Positions: HLT[3], MAR[4], RCL[5], RYA[6], DAL[7], VICI[8], LUV[9], NCLH[10], CCL[11], UAL[12], 
HTHT[13], IAG[14], AAL[15], 9202[16], HST[17], C6L[18], IHG[19], 9201[20], AC[21], WTB[22], QAN[23], WH[24], 
ALK[25], CHH[26], MGP[27], WIZZ[28], 00293[29], VAC[30], TUI1[31], JBLU[32], TNL[33], PK[34], EZJ[35], 
HGV[36], JET2[37], APLE[38], RHP[39], AF[40], H[41], 00753[42], 00069[43], CPA[44], SKYW[45], SAVE[46], 
SHO[47], RLJ[48], 01055[49], PEB[50], 00041[51], DRH[52], 00670[53], 4681[54], XHR[55], SVC[56], ALGT[57], 
AC[58], LHA[59], For the details of SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF's stock buys and sells, go to 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines%2C+hotels%2C+cruise+lines+etf/current-
portfolio/portfolio[60] These are the top 5 holdings of SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETFHilton 
Worldwide Holdings Inc (HLT[61]) - 2,017 shares, 5.36% of the total portfolio. Shares added by 31.74%Marriott 
International Inc (MAR[62]) - 1,770 shares, 5.27% of the total portfolio. Shares added by 31.89%Ryanair Holdings 
PLC (RYA[63]) - 12,654 shares, 4.81% of the total portfolio. Shares added by 30.75%Royal Caribbean Group 
(RCL[64]) - 2,679 shares, 4.79% of the total portfolio. Shares added by 33.28%Delta Air Lines Inc (DAL[65]) - 5,437 
shares, 4.66% of the total portfolio. Shares added by 30.85%Added: Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc (HLT[66]) 
SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF [67] added to a holding in Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc by 
31.74%. The purchase prices were between $117.01 and $138.8, with an estimated average price of $126.37. The 
stock is now traded at around $144.370000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 1.29%. The holding 
were 2,017 shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: Marriott International Inc (MAR[68]) 
SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF [69] added to a holding in Marriott International Inc by 31.89%. 
The purchase prices were between $130 and $154.32, with an estimated average price of $139.53. The stock is 
now traded at around $154.920000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 1.27%. The holding were 
1,770 shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: Royal Caribbean Group (RCL[70]) 
SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF Buys Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc , Marriott ...
SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF [71] added to a holding in Royal Caribbean Group by 33.28%. 
The purchase prices were between $69.51 and $92.41, with an estimated average price of $80.95. The stock is 
now traded at around $80.470000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 1.2%. The holding were 2,679 
shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYA[72]) 
SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF [73] added to a holding in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 30.75%. 
The purchase prices were between $14.73 and $17.35, with an estimated average price of $16.25. The stock is 
now traded at around $16.285000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 1.13%. The holding were 
12,654 shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: Delta Air Lines Inc (DAL[74]) 
SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF [75] added to a holding in Delta Air Lines Inc by 30.85%. The 
purchase prices were between $37.93 and $44.23, with an estimated average price of $40.87. The stock is now 
traded at around $39.690000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 1.1%. The holding were 5,437 
shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: VICI Properties Inc (VICI[76]) 
SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF [77] added to a holding in VICI Properties Inc by 34.63%. The 
purchase prices were between $28.41 and $32.03, with an estimated average price of $30.51. The stock is now 
traded at around $28.460000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 1.04%. The holding were 7,106 
shares as of 2021-09-30. Here is the complete portfolio of SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF[78]. 
Also check out: 
1. SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF's Undervalued Stocks[79] 2. SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, 
Cruise Lines ETF's Top Growth Companies[80], and 3. SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF's High 
Yield stocks[81] 4. Stocks that SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF keeps buying[82] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines,+hotels,+cruise+lines+etf/summary 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines%2C+hotels%2C+cruise+lines+etf/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HLT 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/MAR 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RCL 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RYA 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DAL 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/VICI 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/LUV 
[ 
10]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NCLH 
[ 
11]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CCL 
[ 
12]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/UAL 
[ 
13]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HTHT 
[ 
14]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/IAG 
[ 
15]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AAL 
[ 
16]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/9202 
[ 
17]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HST 
[ 
18]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/C6L 
[ 
19]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/IHG 
[ 
20]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/9201 
[ 
21]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AC 
[ 
22]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/WTB 
[ 
23]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/QAN 
[ 
24]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/WH 
[ 
25]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ALK 
[ 
26]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CHH 
[ 
27]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/MGP 
[ 
28]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/WIZZ 
[ 
29]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/00293 
[ 
30]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/VAC 
[ 
31]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TUI1 
[ 
32]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/JBLU 
[ 
33]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TNL 
[ 
34]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/PK 
[ 
35]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EZJ 
[ 
36]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HGV 
[ 
37]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/JET2 
[ 
38]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/APLE 
[ 
39]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RHP 
[ 
40]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AF 
[ 
41]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/H 
[ 
42]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/00753 
[ 
43]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/00069 
[ 
44]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CPA 
[ 
45]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SKYW 
[ 
46]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SAVE 
[ 
47]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SHO 
[ 
48]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RLJ 
[ 
49]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/01055 
[ 
50]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/PEB 
[ 
51]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/00041 
[ 
52]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DRH 
[ 
53]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/00670 
[ 
54]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/4681 
[ 
55]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/XHR 
[ 
56]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SVC 
[ 
57]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ALGT 
[ 
58]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AC 
[ 
59]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/LHA 
[ 
60]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines%2C+hotels%2C+cruise+lines+etf/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
61]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:HLT/summary 
[ 
62]: 
SonicSharesTM Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Lines ETF Buys Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc , Marriott ...
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:MAR/summary [ 63]: https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/LSE:RYA/summary [ 
64]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:RCL/summary 
[ 
65]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:DAL/summary [ 66]: https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:HLT/summary 
[ 
67]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines,+hotels,+cruise+lines+etf/summary 
[ 
68]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:MAR/summary 
[ 
69]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines,+hotels,+cruise+lines+etf/summary 
[ 
70]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:RCL/summary 
[ 
71]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines,+hotels,+cruise+lines+etf/summary 
[ 
72]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/LSE:RYA/summary 
[ 
73]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines,+hotels,+cruise+lines+etf/summary 
[ 
74]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:DAL/summary 
[ 
75]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines,+hotels,+cruise+lines+etf/summary 
[ 
76]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:VICI/summary 
[ 
77]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines,+hotels,+cruise+lines+etf/summary 
[ 
78]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1578916/%5C 
[ 
79]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines%2C+hotels%2C+cruise+lines+etf/current-
portfolio/portfolioundervalued 
[ 
80]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines%2C+hotels%2C+cruise+lines+etf/current-
portfolio/portfoliotop-growth 
[ 
81]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines%2C+hotels%2C+cruise+lines+etf/current-
portfolio/portfoliotop-yield 
[ 
82]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sonicsharestm+airlines%2C+hotels%2C+cruise+lines+etf/current-
portfolio/portfoliohigh-convicton 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 20, 2021
End of Document
FTSE 100 Rises As Retail Sales Rebound
FTSE 100 Rises As Retail Sales Rebound
RTT News (United States)
November 19, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2021 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 304 words
Byline: editorial@rttnews.com,  (RTT Staff Writer)
Body
       U.K. stocks advanced on Friday as higher commodity prices helped lift miners and energy companies. 
Investors also cheered data showing that U.K. retail sales rose for the first time in six months.
 The benchmark FTSE 100 was up 28 points, or 0.4 percent, at 7,284 after ending half a percent lower the previous 
day.
 In economic releases, U.K. retail sales advanced 0.8 percent month-on-month in October, after staying flat in 
September, data from the Office for National Statistics showed. Economists had forecast a monthly growth of 0.5 
percent. This was the first increase since May.
 On a yearly basis, the decline in retail sales volume deepened to 1.3 percent from 0.6 percent. Nonetheless, this 
was smaller than the 2 percent decline expected by economists.
 Separate data showed that U.K. budget deficit exceeded expectations and also marked the second-highest 
October borrowing since monthly records began in 1993.
 Excluding banks, public sector net borrowing came in at GBP 18.8 billion in October, which was GBP 0.2 billion 
less than in October 2020. Nonetheless, this was the second highest borrowing for the month of October.
 Miners Anglo American and Antofagasta rose about 3 percent each, while oil & gas company BP Plc gained half a 
percent and Royal Dutch Shell edged up 0.2 percent.
 Halma, a global group of safety equipment companies, gained 1.3 percent after it acquired Infinite Leap, Inc., an 
American firm, for its Medical sector business, CenTrak.
 Discount carrier Ryanair Holdings fell more than 1 percent after saying it will drop its London Stock Exchange 
listing. The last day of trading of the shares on the London Stock Exchange would be 17 December 2021.
 Home improvement retailer Kingfisher slumped 5 percent amid concerns over a lack of visibility on the outlook for 
the 2022-23 year.        
Load-Date: November 20, 2021
End of Document
European Shares Advance On Economic Optimism
European Shares Advance On Economic Optimism
RTT News (United States)
November 19, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2021 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 362 words
Byline: editorial@rttnews.com,  (RTT Staff Writer)
Body
       European stocks rose on Friday and were on track for their seventh straight week of gains amid bets that the 
economic recovery can weather elevated inflation and the potential return of full lockdowns as a brutal fourth wave 
of the coronavirus pandemic sweeps across Europe.
 European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde said today that inflation in the euro zone will fade over the 
medium term and it doesn't make sense to react by tightening policy.
 The pan European Stoxx 600 rose 0.4 percent to 489.69 after declining half a percent on Thursday. The German 
DAX edged up 0.2 percent, France's CAC 40 index gained half a percent and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 was up 0.1 
percent.
 Higher commodity prices helped lift miners, with Anglo American and Antofagasta rising about 3 percent each.
 Halma, a global group of safety equipment companies, gained 1.3 percent after it acquired Infinite Leap, Inc., an 
American firm, for its Medical sector business, CenTrak.
 Discount carrier Ryanair Holdings fell more than 1 percent after saying it will drop its London Stock Exchange 
listing. The last day of trading of the shares on the London Stock Exchange would be 17 December 2021.
 Home improvement retailer Kingfisher slumped 5 percent amid concerns over a lack of visibility on the outlook for 
the 2022-23 year.
 French luxury group Hermes jumped 4.4 percent to a record high after reports that it may be added to the 
Eurostoxx 50 index during a December review.
 In economic releases, U.K. retail sales advanced 0.8 percent month-on-month in October, after staying flat in 
September, data from the Office for National Statistics showed. Economists had forecast a monthly growth of 0.5 
percent. This was the first increase since May.
 Separate data showed that U.K. budget deficit exceeded expectations and also marked the second-highest 
October borrowing since monthly records began in 1993.
 German producer prices increased 18.4 percent year-on-year in October, following a 14.2 percent rise in 
September, data released by Destatis revealed.  Prices were expected to gain 16.2 percent.
 This was the highest growth since November 1951, when prices surged 20.6 percent.        
Load-Date: November 20, 2021
European Shares Advance On Economic Optimism
End of Document
Invesco Ltd. Sells 38,446 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Invesco Ltd. Sells 38,446 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
November 19, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 568 words
Body
Ryanair Invesco Ltd. decreased its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 10.8% during the 2nd 
quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the Securities & Exchange Commission. The 
fund owned 316,543 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 38,446 shares during the quarter. 
Invesco Ltd. owned approximately 0.14% of Ryanair worth $34,253,000 at the end of the most recent reporting 
period.  
Several other institutional investors have also modified their holdings of RYAAY. Millennium Management LLC lifted 
its holdings in  Ryanair by 20.9% in the second quarter. Millennium Management LLC now owns 82,855 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $8,966,000 after buying an additional 14,316 shares during the period.  
Boothbay Fund Management LLC acquired a new position in  Ryanair in the second quarter valued at $241,000.  
Bank of America Corp DE lifted its holdings in  Ryanair by 17.8% in the second quarter. Bank of America Corp DE 
now owns 1,194,585 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $129,266,000 after buying an 
additional 180,625 shares during the period.  Cubist Systematic Strategies LLC acquired a new position in  Ryanair 
in the second quarter valued at $238,000.  Finally, Plaisance Capital LLC acquired a new position in  Ryanair in the 
second quarter valued at $2,857,000. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by institutional investors.  
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $110.86 on Friday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 
1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. The firm has a 50-day moving average of $113.80 and a 200-day moving average of 
$111.64. The company has a market cap of $25.03 billion, a PE ratio of -31.49 and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair Holdings 
plc has a one year low of $94.68 and a one year high of $127.25.  
Several brokerages have recently weighed in on RYAAY. Redburn Partners upgraded shares of Ryanair from a 
"neutral" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 price objective on the stock in a report on Tuesday, July 27th. 
UBS Group  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Raymond 
James upped their price objective on shares of Ryanair from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the company an 
"outperform" rating in a report on Thursday, October 7th. Sanford C. Bernstein lowered shares of Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, November 8th. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & 
Co.  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Five equities research 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned  a buy rating to the company. According 
to MarketBeat, the company presently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.48. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Invesco Ltd. Sells 38,446 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: Momentum Indicators  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair to delist from London Stock Exchange on 17 December
Ryanair to delist from London Stock Exchange on 17 December
 
Proactive Investors (UK)
November 19, 2021 Friday 07:52 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Proactive UK Ltd All Rights Reserved
Length: 154 words
Byline: Proactive
Body
Ryanair Holdings PLC (LSE:RYA) has given formal notice of its intention to delist its share from the London Stock 
Exchange.
The last day of trading in London will be 17 December 2021, the airline added. The primary listing will then be 
on Euronext Dublin with ADRs listed on NASDAQ.
In a statement, Ryanair said the volume of trading of the London Stock Exchange did not justify the costs and 
consolidating trading liquidity to one regulated market would benefit all shareholders.
The Irish group had flagged its intention to cancel its LSE listing in its interim results at the start of November.
"The migration away from the LSE is consistent with a general trend for trading in shares of EU corporates post-
Brexit and is, potentially, more acute for Ryanair as a result of the long-standing prohibition on non-EU citizens 
purchasing Ryanair's ordinary shares being extended to UK nationals following Brexit," the company said.
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Stocks, euro retreat on Austria Covid lockdown
Stocks, euro retreat on Austria Covid lockdown
Newstex Blogs 
Digital Journal
November 19, 2021 Friday 4:01 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1084 words
Byline: AFP
Body
Nov 19, 2021( Digital Journal: http://www.digitaljournal.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 US and European stock markets fell Friday and the euro slumped as Austria announced a new strict lockdown to 
try to curb surging Covid cases, triggering heavy losses for oil prices. 
 The lockdown in Austria will begin Monday and vaccination against Covid-19 in the eurozone country will become 
mandatory from February, said Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg. 
 European stocks 'turned red as a new lockdown in Austria and the prospect of similar action in Germany wiped out 
earlier gains', said Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at Oanda trading group. 
 Wall Street followed Europe down as the Dow Jones and the tech-heavy Nasdaq were off around a half-percent in 
early trading. 
 Fawad Razaqzada, market analyst at ThinkMarkets, warned of a 'short-term correction as investors wake up to the 
risks facing the eurozone economy,' despite the prospect of a weaker euro boosting exports. 
 'It is not necessarily about Austria, but concerns that similar lockdown measures might be introduced to other parts 
of Europe (which) has weighed on sentiment today,' he added. 
 Oil prices tumbled, with the benchmark Brent North Sea oil contract falling by 2.6 percent to just under $80 per 
barrel. 
- Alibaba sinks - 
Earlier, Asian stock markets mostly closed higher, but Chinese e-commerce titan Alibaba plunged by more than 10 
percent after warning of a weaker outlook following China's crackdown on the tech sector and slowing growth in the 
world's second-biggest economy. 
 With Alibaba a big player on Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index, the market dropped more than one percent. Other 
tech firms including Tencent and XD suffered smaller losses. 
 Other major Asian indices ended the week higher, Tokyo up as the government announced plans to inject $490 
billion into the Japanese economy to kickstart recovery from the pandemic. 
 Traders had been given a positive lead from Wall Street overnight, where the S&P 500 and Nasdaq indices ended 
at record highs. 
Stocks, euro retreat on Austria Covid lockdown
 Focus remains on surging inflation that is expected to push central banks like the Bank of England (BoE) and 
Federal Reserve to raise interest rates sooner than had been expected. 
 Data this month have shown prices rising at levels not seen for three decades in the United States, 18 years in 
Canada and 10 years in Britain owing to soaring energy costs and global supply chain snarls. 
 Finance chiefs in some countries including South Korea and New Zealand have already hiked interest rates, while 
the Fed has announced plans to wind down its vast cash stimulus programme. 
 It is now facing increasing pressure to raise borrowing costs as soon as mid-2022, while the Bank of England is 
forecast to tighten its main interest rate as early as next month. 
 On the corporate front, Irish no-frills airline Ryanair said it is to delist from the London Stock Exchange next month 
owing to high costs and falling trade volumes following Brexit. 
 The airline, whose primary listing is on the Euronext Dublin, had already hinted at the move at the start of 
November because of fallout from Britain's departure from the European Union. 
- Key figures around 1350 GMT - 
New York - Dow: DOWN 0.5 percent at 35,679.48 points 
 London - FTSE 100: DOWN 0.3 percent at 7,238.14 
 Frankfurt - DAX: DOWN 0.4 percent at 16,156.53 
 Paris - CAC 40: DOWN 0.5 percent at 7,104.94 
 EURO STOXX 50: DOWN 0.5 percent at 4,361.39 
 Tokyo - Nikkei 225: UP 0.5 percent at 29,745.87 (close) 
 Hong Kong - Hang Seng Index: DOWN 1.1 percent at 25,049.97 (close) 
 Shanghai - Composite: UP 1.1 percent at 3,560.37 (close) 
 Euro/dollar: DOWN at $1.1312 from $1.1374 at 2145 GMT 
 Euro/pound: DOWN at 84.03 pence from 84.22 pence 
 Pound/dollar: DOWN at $1.3462 from $1.3501 
 Dollar/yen: DOWN at 113.89 yen from 114.24 yen 
 Brent North Sea crude: DOWN 2.6 percent at $79.94 per barrel 
 West Texas Intermediate: DOWN 1.5 percent at $77.20 per barrel 
 
https://www.addtoany.com/add_to/facebook?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fbusiness%2Fsto
cks-euro-retreat-on-austria-covid-
lockdown%2Farticle&linkname=Stocks%2C%20euro%20retreat%20on%20Austria%20Covid%20lockdownhttps://w
ww.addtoany.com/add_to/twitter?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fbusiness%2Fstocks-euro-
retreat-on-austria-covid-
lockdown%2Farticle&linkname=Stocks%2C%20euro%20retreat%20on%20Austria%20Covid%20lockdownhttps://w
ww.addtoany.com/add_to/linkedin?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fbusiness%2Fstocks-euro-
retreat-on-austria-covid-
lockdown%2Farticle&linkname=Stocks%2C%20euro%20retreat%20on%20Austria%20Covid%20lockdownhttps://w
ww.addtoany.com/add_to/email?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fbusiness%2Fstocks-euro-
retreat-on-austria-covid-
lockdown%2Farticle&linkname=Stocks%2C%20euro%20retreat%20on%20Austria%20Covid%20lockdownhttps://w
ww.addtoany.com/share#url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fbusiness%2Fstocks-euro-retreat-on-
austria-covid-lockdown%2Farticle&title=Stocks%2C%20euro%20retreat%20on%20Austria%20Covid%20lockdown 
The post Stocks, euro retreat on Austria Covid lockdown[1] appeared first on Digital Journal[2]. 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.digitaljournal.com/business/stocks-euro-retreat-on-austria-covid-lockdown/article 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.digitaljournal.com 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
Stocks, euro retreat on Austria Covid lockdown
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair to Discontinue London Stock Exchange Listing
Ryanair to Discontinue London Stock Exchange Listing
MT Newswires Live Briefs
November 19, 2021 Friday 6:08 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 79 words
Body
 Ryanair Holdings (RYAAY) on Friday said that it is delisting from the London Stock Exchange, effective Dec. 20.
The Irish budget carrier said it made the decision to delist as the volume of trading of its shares on the London 
bourse did not justify the costs related to such listing.
Ryanair will continue to have a primary listing on the regulated market of Euronext Dublin while its ADRs will 
continue to be listed on Nasdaq.
Price: 108.14, Change: -2.72, Percent Change: -2.45
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
FTSE extends weekly losses despite retail bright spot
FTSE extends weekly losses despite retail bright spot
Citywire
November 19, 2021 Friday 10:22 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 713 words
Byline: Jeremy Gordon
Highlight: FTSE 100 extends its slump for a fourth day despite a bounce for commodity stocks and better-than-
expected data on the health of the retail sector.
Body
The FTSE 100 extended its slump for a fourth day on Friday, despite a bounce for commodity stocks and better-
than-expected data on the health of the retail sector. 
Having risen in early trading, the blue-chip index reversed course to trade down 23 points, or 0.3%, to 7,233 at 
10.15am, putting it on course for a 1.6% weekly loss. 
UK retail sales volumes rose 0.8% in October from the previous month, the Office for National Statistics reported, 
having shown no growth in September. 
‘This beat forecasts, signalling that Christmas shopping is starting early this year, with consumer wallets healthy 
and supply-chain worries high, as consumers look to beat the rush and not be left empty-handed,’ Ben Laidler, 
strategist at investment platform eToro 
‘Some retail cheer is good for the continued UK growth rebound, with private consumption making up over 60% of 
the economy. This seems set to continue, with retail spending forecast up a strong 8% this November and 
December versus last year.’ 
Basic materials was the best-performing sector among blue chips, up 1.7%, as Anglo American (AAL) rallied 2.9% 
to £28.81 and BHP Group (BHP) rose 2.5% to £19.14.  
Ocado (OCDO) popped 6.5% to £18.91, on speculation that Marks & Spencers (MKS) could be mulling a move to 
buy out Ocado’s UK retail arm, of which it is a 50% shareholder. Markets.com analyst Neil Wilson said it ‘could 
happen’, describing it as a ‘natural evolution’ once Ocado’s international deals start to generate revenue. M&S 
shares ticked up 0.1% to 236.5p.  
There was broad weakness in travel stocks as Austria announced it was entering a full lockdown, with British 
Airways-owner International Consolidated Airlines (IAG) sinking 5.4% to 146p. 
Ryanair (RYA) also confirmed it would delist from the London Stock Exchange, having flagged the potential move 
previously due to the liquidity of the shares. Its stock dipped 1.8% to €15.99. 
FTSE extends weekly losses despite retail bright spot
Kingfisher (KGF) slipped 4.1% to 323p after the B&Q-owner posted a drop in third-quarter like-for-like sales as the 
pandemic DIY boom slows. 
Housebuilders were also knocked, with Persimmon (PSN) down 1.8% to £27.69. The latest tax figures for April to 
October showed in England we paid £10.2bn in stamp duty, up £4.1bn in a year, underscoring that conditions may 
not remain so favourable for the sector, after the boost from the previous stamp duty holiday and rush back into the 
market after lockdown. 
The mid-cap FTSE 250 index fell back 124 points, or 0.5%, to 23,450, with Wagamama-owner Restaurant Group 
(RTN) slipping 5.2% to 83.7p. 
Dunedin’s advance
Among investment trusts, Dunedin Enterprise (DNE ), the winding-down private equity fund, rose 4%, or 19.3p, to 
492.3p after a strong third quarter update showed a 10% total investment return with net asset value (NAV) at 
546.2p per share at the end of September. After returning £26m to shareholders through a tender offer this month 
the company has £12.2m cash to meet investment commitments of £11.7m. 
Octopus Renewables Infrastructure (ORIT ) fell 2.2% to 107.6p, after announcing plans to issue up to 70m new 
shares at 105.5p via a placing retail offer. The issue price represents a 6.4% premium to the 30 September NAV 
and a 4.1% discount to yesterday’s closing share price. 
Seraphim Space (SSIT ) released quarterly results to 30 September, having floated in mid-July. NAV per share 
rose 6% to 104p, while net assets grew 26% to £221m. Its shares, which are trading on a 19% premium according 
to broker Winterflood, advanced 1% to 125.2p. 
UK Mortgages (UKML ) firmed 1% to 71.4p from a 9% discount after the 6%-yielding debt fund said it would lift 
dividends by 11% for the remaining three quarters of its financial year to 1.25p from 1.125p. It will also look to 
increase the dividend for the following year to June 2023.   
The £126m buy-to-let loan fund is run by Vontobel-owned TwentyFour Asset Management. After disappointing 
performance, it fended off a bid from M&G in the summer of last year and in December won approval for a revised 
income mandate.  
NextEnergy Solar Fund (NESF ) added 1% to 99.96p from a 4% discount after posting a 7.9% total investment 
return in the six months to 30 September with cash-covered half-year dividends of 3.58p leaving the 7% yielder on 
track for its 7.16p target for the year. 
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair to Delist From London Bourse in December
Ryanair to Delist From London Bourse in December
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
November 19, 2021 Friday 2:16 AM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 66 words
Body
 Ryanair (RYA.L, RY4C.IR) said Friday it expects to delist from the London bourse on Dec. 20 after filing an 
application with the exchange. 
The budget airline's decision to delist follows a material decline in share volumes post-Brexit. 
The company's final trading day is set to be Dec. 17. 
Ryanair shares lost over 1% on Thursday's close. 
Price (GBP): £16.29, Change: £-0.20, Percent Change: -1.21%
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Requests Cancellation Of London Listing - Quick Facts
Ryanair Requests Cancellation Of London Listing - Quick Facts
RTT News (United States)
November 19, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 Content Engine, LLC.
All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2021 RTT News All Rights Reserved
Length: 104 words
Byline: editorial@rttnews.com,  (RTT Staff Writer)
Body
       Ryanair Holdings plc (RYA.L, RYAAY) has given notice to cancel the standard listing of the company's ordinary 
shares on the official list of the FCA, and to request the London Stock Exchange to cancel the admission to trading 
of the shares on the main market for listed securities of the London Stock Exchange.
 The cancellation of London Listing will become effective on 20 December 2021. The last day of trading of the 
shares on the London Stock Exchange would be 17 December 2021.
 The company will continue to have a primary listing on the regulated market of Euronext Dublin, and its ADRs are 
listed on NASDAQ.        
Load-Date: November 20, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair fly Couple to Wrong Country then Blame them for Error
Ryanair fly Couple to Wrong Country then Blame them for Error
Newstex Blogs 
DESIblitz
November 19, 2021 Friday 1:05 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 834 words
Byline: Dhiren Manga
Body
Nov 19, 2021( DESIblitz: http://www.desiblitz.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 A couple were left out of pocket after Ryanair flew them to the wrong country then refused to apologise. 
 Instead, the airline has blamed the couple for the mix-up, which saw them fly to Greece instead of their intended 
destination, Spain. 
 The issue also raised security questions as the pair got on a flight they were never meant to be on. 
 Humaira and Farooq Shaikh were set to fly to Seville on October 4, 2021, for a holiday. 
 They arrived at Stansted airport, checked in, went through pre-flight checks at the boarding gate and when they 
were on the plane, including their boarding passes being checked. 
 However, the plane went to Zakynthos, 1,200 miles away. 
 Still believing they were in Spain, the couple got off the plane, left the airport and got into a taxi. They then realised 
what had happened. 
 Humaira said: 'Our phones were saying 'Welcome to Greece' and then our taxi driver said 'this isn't Spain'.' 
 Due to its late departure from the UK, the cabin crew had not announced the destination. 
 The couple returned to the airport to speak to Ryanair staff. The couple said the staff laughed. 
 Humaira explained that Ryanair staff would only pay for one night in a hotel and a return trip to the UK, despite the 
next flight to London not being for another four days. 
 Humaira said: 'They would only pay for one night's accommodation, so we had to pay for another three.' 
 The alternative was to take two flights back to the UK, with a layover, which would have doubled the length of their 
trip. 
 The couple were forced to pay for the rest of their stay in Greece, but struggled due to the shock of the situation 
and not having great internet skills. 
 They had also packed for a walking holiday in Spain, not the sandy conditions of Zakynthos. 
 When they did fly back to the UK, they were not on the Ryanair system and nearly missed their flight. 
 They only made it because one staff member recognised them. 
 The trip had been a gift from their son Suleman, who was in England working. 
 Fortunately, he was able to arrange and pay for a hotel until his parents were able to return to the UK. 
 However, he says the incident has cost him around 1,100 as he lost the payments for a Spanish hotel and pre-
booked activities. 
Ryanair fly Couple to Wrong Country then Blame them for Error
 Suleman told The Mirror[1]: 
 'I am completely outraged and shocked that this has been allowed to happen.' 
 'Not only is this a complete lack of safety, security and responsibility, but it has triggered severe strain and anxiety 
on my parents. 
 'My mum already suffers frompost-traumatic stress disorderand anxiety, and receiving her calls to me crying on the 
phone from Greece, whilst at work, was extremely distressing to hear.' 
 Since the incident, Ryanair has not apologised or offered compensation. Instead, the airline blamed the couple. 
 An email from Ryanair to the couple read: 
 'All of the Ryanair bag drop desks in the departure area are clearly identified. 
 'The screens above them display the flight number and destination. 
 'Each customer's boarding card clearly states their flight number and destination. Customers are also advised to 
check the airport information screens for the boarding gate number. 
 'It is the responsibility of every passenger to ensure that they follow the correct procedures and take note of the 
information available to them.' 
 A Ryanair spokesperson said: 'It is each customer's responsibility to ensure they board the correct aircraft. 
 'As these passengers passed through security control pre-boarding there was no security risk. 
 'We are working with our handling agents in London Stansted to ensure that this error doesn't reoccur.' 
 [ 1]: https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/we-booked-ryanair-flight-spain-25481503 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Is Lukashenko setting a new trap for Europe?
Is Lukashenko setting a new trap for Europe?
Newstex Blogs 
New Europe
November 19, 2021 Friday 9:06 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1180 words
Byline: Nicholas Waller
Body
Nov 19, 2021( New Europe: https://www.neweurope.eu/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 One can hardly imagine the misery of the refugees at the border between Poland, Lithuania and Belarus. 
Thousands of people from Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan, many of them Kurds and Yazidis, are camping in the woods 
in freezing temperatures with little supplies and no medical care. And they all have only one goal - they want to 
enter the EU, with most of them wanting to reach Germany. 
 They all have been lured by the dictator of Belarus, Alexander Lukashenko. The Belarussian national airline 
Belavia, along with Turkish Airlines, allegedly chartered pflights and brought the people to the Belarussian capital 
Minsk. From there they were taken by bus to the border with Poland and Lithuania. A few hundred managed to 
cross the green border at first, then to Germany. 
 The Polish army then built a tight cordon along the 400 km long border with barbed wire and soldiers. Refugees 
were turned back with water cannons, tear gas and batons. They then attacked the border guards with stones and 
whatever else they could use. 
 The Polish authorities do not allow journalists to reach the border and have sealed off a three-kilometre-wide strip 
as a prohibited zone. This has made direct reports from the border rare. A correspondent from Switzerland's Neue 
Zürcher Zeitung, Ivo Mijnssen, was in the area of the border zone and reported: 'The misery is indescribable. I was 
in the forests with a delegation of doctors. We found a woman with 5 children who had a body temperature of only 
25 degrees and took her to a hospital. She could be saved for the time being.' 
 Polish military vehicles usually take such migrants back to the border with Belarus soon after initial treatment. 
Requests for asylum are not accepted. 
 Belarus' dictator is deliberately using migrants to blackmail the EU 
 Lukashenko's actions are part of his reaction to sanctions that were imposed by the EU after last year's rigged 
presidential election. These were tightened again after a state-sponsored hijacking of a passenger plane last spring. 
Lukashenko ordered the Belarussian Air Force to intercept and force a Ryanair flight flying from Athens to Vilnius to 
land in order to arrest an opposition member that was on board the flight. 
 Lukashenko has upped the stakes in his ongoing war with the West by trying to forces thousands of illegal migrants 
across Poland's - and the EU's - borders. Furthermore, he deliberately chose the timing, as Germany has yet to 
form a new government after their federal elections in October. 
Is Lukashenko setting a new trap for Europe?
 Sadly, the EU also acted in a rather clueless and uncoordinated manner, and has done so since the beginning of 
the crisis. Poland's right-wing government is itself in conflict with Brussels over political interference in the Polish 
judiciary. Just prior to the outbreak of the migrant crisis, the EU's highest court imposed a €1 million daily fine on 
Warsaw in an attempt to persuade the Poles to abolish its new disciplinary chamber. 
 Poland's government has refused to let officials from the EU border protection agency Frontex - which is based in 
Warsaw - to the border and has rejected offers of help from other countries.  
 According to Poland's Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Germany, in particular, should have a special interest in 
protecting the EU's external border. Morawiecki demanded that the new German government immediately stop the 
Nord Stream 2 Baltic Sea gas pipeline as part of a response to the hybrid war that is being carried out against 
Europe.  
 'We are defending the EU border here in Poland. And when we talk about the bigger picture: Let's work together for 
peace and not give Vladimir Putin extra money through energy payments so he can keep arming.' 
 The EU was reluctant to impose new, more severe, sanctions on Belarus. Reports have indicated that the new 
round embargoes would have included cutting the country off from international payments. Lukashenko, for his part, 
threatened to cut off a natural gas pipeline running through his country, which would limit the supply of Russian gas 
to Europe.  
 This time, however, Lukashenko's patron in the Kremlin, Vladimir Putin, did not agree. 
 Outgoing German Chancellor Angela Merkel spoke twice on the phone with Lukashenko this week. According to 
information from Minsk, a deal was negotiated: The EU would take in 2,000 refugees, and Lukashenko would 
repatriate the remainder, about 5,000 people, back to the Middle East. A first plane did indeed take over 400 of the 
migrants on November 18, all of which had agreed to be sent back to Iraq. 
 The European Commission has so far strictly rejected negotiations with Minsk. In the meantime, however, 
Lukashenko seems to be trying to de-escalate the situation: Apparently, he fears that several thousand migrants 
could remain in Belarus permanently. He may also be worried that control of the situation on the border with Poland 
and Lithuania could slip from his grasp. Or, in the worst-case scenario, he may want to set a new trap for the EU. 
 The EU should now quickly start talks with Lukashenko's patrons in the Kremlin. Putin must fear that the conflict 
could postpone the completion and bringing on line the new Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline through the Baltic 
Sea to Germany. 
 To be sure, Moscow has so far done everything to weaken and divide the EU. The ill-fated visit by Europe Foreign 
Affairs chief, Josep Borrell, in March marked a low point in relations between Moscow and Brussels. At that 
meeting, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov utterly embarrassed Borrell. Despite that, a dialogue between the 
EU and Russia must be restarted. This is the only way to prevent further provocations by Lukashenko and thus 
further, and even greater, human suffering. To that end, even a real war can no longer be excluded. 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Germany 's Condor resumes Vienna ops in early 2Q22
Germany's Condor resumes Vienna ops in early 2Q22
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
November 18, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 345 words
Body
Condor (DE, Frankfurt Int'l) has announced it will resume operating out of Vienna, Austria, in the summer of 2022 
with non-stop flights to four holiday destinations in Spain and Greece.
From April 8 until October 28, 2022, the German leisure carrier will fly 4x weekly between Vienna and Palma de 
Mallorca (Spain).
From May, it will serve the following Greek islands:
from May 20 to October 28, 2022: twice-weekly to Kos Hippocrates;
from May 21 to October 31, 2022: 3x weekly to Heraklion; and
from May 22 to October 30, 2022: twice-weekly to Rhodes.
The airline, in a statement, said its return to the Austrian capital is in response to demand from Austrian tour 
operators and travel retailers for tailor-made flights. "The pent-up demand for vacation trips will be huge in the 
coming summer. With our flights from Vienna, we are responding to the demand for tailor-made flights from our 
long-term tour operator and travel agency partners in Austria," said Chief Executive Officer Ralf Teckentrup.
"Together with our partners in Switzerland, we successfully established Zurich as a departure airport this summer. 
We look forward to adding Vienna to our flights from Germany and Switzerland in the summer of 2022," he said.
Condor will be entering a market dominated by Austrian Airlines (OS, Vienna) and budget carrier Ryanair (FR, 
Dublin Int'l), which together control almost 65% of the market in Vienna in terms of weekly seat capacity, according 
to ch-aviation capacities data. Both carriers also compete on the routes to Spanish and Greek sun destinations that 
Condor is entering from Vienna, with Hungarian low-cost carrier Wizz Air (W6, Budapest) competing between 
Vienna and Mallorca, the ch-aviation schedules module shows.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Germany 's Condor resumes Vienna ops in early 2Q22
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Millennium Management LLC Increases Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Millennium Management LLC Increases Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings 
plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
November 18, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 538 words
Body
Ryanair Millennium Management LLC lifted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
20.9% during the second quarter, according to the company in its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission. The fund owned 82,855 shares of the transportation company's stock after acquiring 
an additional 14,316 shares during the period. Millennium Management LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth 
$8,966,000 at the end of the most recent reporting period.  
Several other institutional investors and hedge funds have also made changes to their positions in RYAAY. 
Barclays PLC purchased a new position in  Ryanair in the 1st quarter valued at $355,000.  Captrust Financial 
Advisors grew its position in  Ryanair by 47.8% in the 1st quarter. Captrust Financial Advisors now owns 1,524 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $175,000 after buying an additional 493 shares during the 
last quarter.  Verition Fund Management LLC purchased a new position in  Ryanair in the 1st quarter valued at 
$382,000.  D. E. Shaw & Co. Inc. grew its position in  Ryanair by 430.7% in the 1st quarter. D. E. Shaw & Co. Inc. 
now owns 39,183 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $4,506,000 after buying an additional 
31,800 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board purchased a new position in  
Ryanair in the 1st quarter valued at $2,864,000. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.91% of the 
company's stock.  
RYAAY  opened at $112.58 on Thursday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 
and a quick ratio of 1.34. The stock has a market capitalization of $25.41 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -31.98 
and a beta of 1.56. The business has a 50-day moving average of $113.73 and a two-hundred day moving average 
of $111.64. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of $127.25.  
RYAAY has been the subject of a number of recent analyst reports. Oddo Bhf downgraded Ryanair from an 
"outperform" rating to a "neutral" rating in a report on Monday. Peel Hunt raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a 
"buy" rating in a report on Friday, September 17th. Credit Suisse Group  reissued an "outperform" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Raymond James lifted their price target on Ryanair from $135.00 
to $140.00 and gave the stock an "outperform" rating in a research note on Thursday, October 7th. Finally, Morgan 
Stanley  reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. 
Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a buy rating to the company. 
According to data from MarketBeat, the company presently has an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus price 
target of $122.48. 
Millennium Management LLC Increases Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Call Option 
Load-Date: November 18, 2021
End of Document
Millennium Management LLC Increases Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Millennium Management LLC Increases Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings 
plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
November 18, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 534 words
Body
Ryanair Millennium Management LLC boosted its position in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 20.9% 
during the second quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). The fund owned 82,855 shares of the transportation company's stock after buying an additional 
14,316 shares during the period. Millennium Management LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $8,966,000 as of 
its most recent SEC filing.  
A number of other large investors have also recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. Barclays PLC purchased a 
new position in  Ryanair in the 1st quarter valued at $355,000.  Captrust Financial Advisors grew its position in  
Ryanair by 47.8% in the 1st quarter. Captrust Financial Advisors now owns 1,524 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $175,000 after buying an additional 493 shares during the last quarter.  Verition Fund 
Management LLC purchased a new position in  Ryanair in the 1st quarter valued at $382,000.  D. E. Shaw & Co. 
Inc. grew its position in  Ryanair by 430.7% in the 1st quarter. D. E. Shaw & Co. Inc. now owns 39,183 shares of 
the transportation company's stock valued at $4,506,000 after buying an additional 31,800 shares during the last 
quarter.  Finally, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board purchased a new position in  Ryanair in the 1st quarter 
valued at $2,864,000. Hedge funds and other institutional investors own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
RYAAY  opened at $112.58 on Thursday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 
and a quick ratio of 1.34. The stock has a market capitalization of $25.41 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -31.98 
and a beta of 1.56. The business has a 50-day moving average of $113.73 and a two-hundred day moving average 
of $111.64. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of $127.25.  
RYAAY has been the subject of a number of recent analyst reports. UBS Group  reissued a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Redburn Partners raised Ryanair from a "neutral" rating 
to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 target price for the company in a report on Tuesday, July 27th. Sanford C. 
Bernstein downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on Monday, 
November 8th. Credit Suisse Group  reissued an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, 
September 17th. Finally, Peel Hunt raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Friday, 
September 17th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a buy rating 
to the company. According to data from MarketBeat, the company presently has an average rating of "Buy" and a 
consensus price target of $122.48. 
Ryanair Company Profile
Millennium Management LLC Increases Stock Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Call Option 
Load-Date: November 18, 2021
End of Document
Fitch Raises Ryanair 's Outlook To Stable On Traffic Recovery Forecast
Fitch Raises Ryanair's Outlook To Stable On Traffic Recovery Forecast
Live Briefs PRO Global Markets
November 18, 2021 Thursday 11:49 PM EST
Copyright 2021 MT Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 112 words
Body
 Fitch on Thursday revised the outlook on Ryanair's (RYA.L, RY4C.IR) BBB rating to stable from negative expecting 
a recovery in travel in Europe.
The stable outlook reflects the expectation that the eased travel restrictions in Europe would support a sustained 
recovery in the budget airline's operations after recording a strong performance in the July to October period in 
passenger numbers and load factor.
The recovery is expected to accelerate from summer 2022 as there is a low chance of widespread travel restrictions 
being imposed again.
Ryanair's shares declined more than 1% at the end of Thursday trading.
Price (GBP): £16.29, Change: £-0.20, Percent Change: -1.21%
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 18, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 155 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1436.8 -22.60 1890.2 1073 - -2.38 909.8 CompassX 1535.5 9.00 1721.63 18.06 - -66.47 
2406.3 Dalata Hotel 339.50 -5.00 414.50 272.00 - -12.97 2.0 easyJet 573.60 -6.60 1095 550.20 - -1.89 3493.9 
FirstGrp 100.70 -0.10 104.00 59.40 - 25.82 1429.2 Flutter Entertainment 11690 -210.00 19680.8 11665 - -293.72 
1025.3 Fuller A 642.00 -8.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.35 48.9 Go-Ahead 749.00 -15.00 1463 683.03 - -6.99 57.8 IntCon 
Htels Gp 4934 -94.00 46170 4389 - -4870.68 496.8 Intl Cons Air 154.58 -5.50 222.10 2.06 - -1.60 43313.9 
MandarO $ 2.17 -0.11 2.36 1.65 - -7.02 60.6 Marstons 76.95 -0.30 105.50 59.35 - -1.17 2824.0 Natl Exp 239.00 
0.20 413.50 206.70 - -5.15 860.2 PPHE Htl 1362 2.00 1800 1175 - -6.05 11.7 Restaurt 88.30 -4.30 140.00 52.56 - 
9.28 3408.7 Ryanair Holdings PLC 312.00 2.50 338.60 250.00 1.06 52.88 221.3 TUI 215.10 -5.70 580.20 210.70 - -
1.45 2722.4 Whitbrd 3065 -64.00 3949.01 36.28 - -6.36 741
Load-Date: November 17, 2021
End of Document
Sarah Ketterer Boosts 2 Top Holdings, Creates GE Stake
Sarah Ketterer Boosts 2 Top Holdings, Creates GE Stake
Newstex Blogs 
GuruFocus.com
November 18, 2021 Thursday 10:12 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 3531 words
Body
Nov 18, 2021( GuruFocus.com: http://www.gurufocus.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Causeway Capital Management leader  
Sarah Ketterer [1] (Trades[2], Portfolio[3]) released her second-quarter portfolio earlier this week. Seeking to post 
superior risk-adjusted returns, the guru's Los Angeles-based firm, which she founded with Harry Hartford in 2001, 
invests in mispriced equities in both developed and emerging markets. The investment team looks for potential 
opportunities among mid- and large-cap companies using quantitative and value-oriented methods. Each stock also 
receives a risk score based on the amount of volatility it adds to the portfolio. The team then enters positions in the 
stocks with the highest expected risk-adjusted returns that also have a lower price-earnings ratio and higher 
dividend yield than the market. 
With these criteria in mind, Ketterer's firm entered 10 new positions during the quarter, sold out of seven stocks and 
trimmed or added to a number of other existing holdings. The most significant trades included a new position in 
General Electric Co. ( GE[4], Financial[5]), increased bets on Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY[6], Financial[7]) and 
Credicorp Ltd. (BAP[8], Financial[9]) and the divestment of Hill-Rom Holdings Inc. (HRC[10], Financial[11]) and 
Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc. (ARE[12], Financial[13]). General Electric 
After selling out of General Electric ( GE[14], Financial[15]) in the first quarter, Ketterer invested in a new 1 million-
share stake, allocating it to 2.32% of the equity portfolio. The stock traded for an average price of $103.28 per share 
during the quarter. It is now her 10th-largest holding. 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/stock-picks?view=table 
The Boston-based industrial conglomerate, which recently announced it will be splitting into three separate 
companies, has a $109.96 billion market cap; its shares were trading around $100.09 on Thursday with a price-
book ratio of 2.93 and a price-sales ratio of 1.4. 
The GF Value Line suggests the stock is significantly overvalued currently based on its historical ratios, past 
performance and future earnings projections. 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/GE/summary 
GuruFocus rated General Electric's financial strength 4 out of 10 on the back of low debt-related ratios and an 
Altman Z-Score of 1.43 that warns it could be at risk of going bankrupt. The return on invested capital is also being 
overshadowed by the weighted average cost of capital, meaning the company is struggling to create value as it 
grows. 
Sarah Ketterer Boosts 2 Top Holdings, Creates GE Stake
The company's profitability scored a 5 out of 10 rating as its margins and returns on equity, assets and capital are 
underperforming a majority of competitors. GE is supported, however, by a moderate Piotroski F-Score of 4, which 
means operations are typical for a stable company. As a result of revenue per share declining in recent years, 
however, the predictability rank of one out of five stars is on watch. According to GuruFocus, companies with this 
rank return an average of 1.1% annually. 
Of the gurus invested in GE,  
Bill Nygren [16] (Trades[17], Portfolio[18]) has the largest stake with 2.19% of its outstanding shares. Andreas 
Halvorsen [19] (Trades[20], Portfolio[21]), Pioneer Investments, Hotchkis & Wiley, Richard Pzena [22] (Trades[23], 
Portfolio[24]), the T Rowe Price Equity Income Fund [25] (Trades[26], Portfolio[27]), Nelson Peltz [28] (Trades[29], 
Portfolio[30]), Mason Hawkins [31] (Trades[32], Portfolio[33]) and Jim Simons [34] (Trades[35], Portfolio[36])' 
Renaissance Technologies also have significant positions in the stock. Ryanair 
The investor's largest trade for the quarter was a 28.66% increase to her stake in Ryanair ( RYAAY[37], 
Financial[38]), buying 1.07 million shares. The transaction had an impact of 2.67% on the equity portfolio. Shares 
traded for an average price of $108.20 each during the quarter. She now holds 4.8 million shares total, which 
represent 11.97% of the equity portfolio and is her largest position. GuruFocus says Ketterer has gained an 
estimated 43.67% on the investment since establishing it in the third quarter of 2016. 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/stock-picks?view=table 
The Irish ultra low-cost airline has a market cap of $25.04 billion; its shares were trading around $110.90 on 
Thursday with a price-book ratio of 3.71 and a price-sales ratio of 7.04. 
According to the GF Value Line, the stock is significantly overvalued currently. 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RYAAY/summary 
Ryanair's financial strength was rated 4 out of 10 by GuruFocus. As a result of issuing approximately 1.7 billion 
euros ($1.9 billion) in new long-term debt over the past three years, the company has weak interest coverage. The 
Altman Z-Score of 1.67 also warns it could be at risk of going bankrupt. 
The company's profitability fared better with a 6 out of 10 rating even though its negative margins and returns are 
underperforming a majority of industry peers. It also is being weighed down by a low Piotroski F-Score of 3, 
indicating operations are in poor shape, but still has a one-star predictability rank even though losses in operating 
income and declining revenue per share has been recorded over the past several years. 
With a 4.77% stake,  
Baillie Gifford [39] (Trades[40], Portfolio[41]) is Ryanair's largest guru shareholder. Other top guru shareholders 
include David Herro [42] (Trades[43], Portfolio[44]), Simons' firm, the Causeway International Value [45] 
(Trades[46], Portfolio[47]) Fund, PRIMECAP Management [48] (Trades[49], Portfolio[50]), Julian Robertson [51] 
(Trades[52], Portfolio[53]), Pioneer Investments and Francis Chou [54] (Trades[55], Portfolio[56]). Credicorp 
The guru boosted her Credicorp ( BAP[57], Financial[58]) stake by 43.96%, buying 509,937 shares. The transaction 
had an impact of 1.27% on the equity portfolio. During the quarter, the stock traded for an average per-share price 
of $109.17. Ketterer now holds 1.67 million shares total, accounting for 4.17% of the equity portfolio. It is also her 
fourth-largest holding. She has lost an estimated 9.2% on the investment since establishing it in the second quarter. 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/stock-picks?view=table 
The financial services company headquartered in Peru has a $9.58 billion market cap; its shares were trading 
around $120.36 on Thursday with a price-earnings ratio of 12.07, a price-book ratio of 1.52 and a price-sales ratio 
of 2.74. 
Based on the GF Value Line, the stock appears to be modestly undervalued currently. 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BAP/summary 
 GuruFocus rated Credicorp's financial strength 3 out of 10. While debt-related ratios appear to be outperforming 
versus other players, assets are building up at a faster rate than revenue is growing, suggesting the company may 
be becoming less efficient. 
The company's profitability scored a 5 out of 10 rating. It is being supported by returns that outperform over half of 
its competitors as well as a moderate Piotroski F-Score of 4. Although revenue per share has declined in recent 
years, Credicorp still has a three-star predictability rank. GuruFocus says companies with this rank return an 
average of 8.2% annually. 
Dodge & Cox is Credicorp's largest guru shareholder with a 6.78% stake. Gurus who also have positions in the 
stock are  
Sarah Ketterer Boosts 2 Top Holdings, Creates GE Stake
Baillie Gifford [59] (Trades[60], Portfolio[61]), John Rogers [62] (Trades[63], Portfolio[64]), Ron Baron [65] 
(Trades[66], Portfolio[67]), Pioneer Investments, Jeremy Grantham [68] (Trades[69], Portfolio[70]), the iShares 
MSCI ACWI ex. U.S. ETF, Charles Brandes [71] (Trades[72], Portfolio[73]), Ken Fisher [74] (Trades[75], 
Portfolio[76]) and Diamond Hill Capital [77] (Trades[78], Portfolio[79]). Hill-Rom Holdings 
Ketterer divested of her entire position in Hill-Rom Holdings ( HRC[80], Financial[81]), selling 433,464 shares. The 
transaction had an impact of -1.01% on the equity portfolio. The stock traded for an average price of $134.94 per 
share during the quarter. Based on GuruFocus data, Ketterer gained an estimated 40.77% on the investment. 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/stock-picks?view=table 
The Chicago-based company, which provides hospital equipment and medical supplies, has a market cap of $10.28 
billion; its shares were trading around $155.70 on Thursday with a price-earnings ratio of 41.86, a price-book ratio 
of 5.46 and a price-sales ratio of 3.44. 
The GF Value Line suggests the stock is significantly overvalued currently. 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HRC/summary 
Hill-Rom's financial strength was rated 4 out of 10 by GuruFocus. Although the company has issued approximately 
$598 million in new long-term debt over the past three years, it is still at a manageable level due to adequate 
interest coverage. The robust Altman Z-Score of 3.57 also indicates it is in good standing. Value creation is 
occurring since the ROIC eclipses the WACC. 
The company's profitability scored an 8 out of 10 rating, driven by an expanding operating margin, strong returns 
that top over half of its industry peers and a high Piotroski F-Score of 7, which indicates business conditions are 
healthy. Consistent earnings and revenue growth have also contributed to a three-star predictability rank. 
Of the gurus invested in Hill-Rom,  
George Soros [82] (Trades[83], Portfolio[84]) has the largest holding with 0.78% of its outstanding shares. Simons' 
firm, Grantham, Pioneer Investments, Paul Tudor Jones [85] (Trades[86], Portfolio[87]), Mario Gabelli [88] 
(Trades[89], Portfolio[90]), Ray Dalio [91] (Trades[92], Portfolio[93]) and Fisher also own the stock. Alexandria Real 
Estate Equities 
The investor shed her 249,493 remaining shares of Alexandria Real Estate Equities ( ARE[94], Financial[95]), 
impacting the equity portfolio by -0.93%. During the quarter, shares traded for an average price of $199 each. 
GuruFocus estimates Ketterer gained 17.72% on the investment, which was established in the fourth quarter of 
2020.  
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/stock-picks?view=table 
The real estate investment trust, which is headquartered in Pasadena, California, has a $32.10 billion market cap; 
its shares were trading around $206.97 on Thursday with a price-earnings ratio of 31.48, a price-book ratio of 2.14 
and a price-sales ratio of 14.75. 
According to the GF Value Line, the stock is modestly overvalued currently. 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARE/summary 
GuruFocus rated Alexandria's financial strength 4 out of 10. As a result of issuing approximately $3.6 billion in new 
long-term debt over the past three years, the company has poor interest coverage. The weak Altman Z-Score of 1.8 
warns the company could be at risk of going bankrupt. Assets are also building up at a faster rate than revenue is 
growing, so it may be becoming less efficient. Similarly, the REIT is struggling to create value since the WACC 
exceeds the ROIC. 
The company's profitability fared better, scoring a 6 out of 10 rating on the back of margins and returns that 
outperform over half of its competitors. Alexandria also has a moderate Piotroski F-Score of 4. Although the REIT 
has recorded a decline in revenue per share in recent years, it still has a 2.5-star predictability rank. GuruFocus 
data shows companies with this rank return, on average, 7.3% annually. 
With a 0.84% stake, Baron is the company's largest guru shareholder. Pioneer Investments,  
Chris Davis [96] (Trades[97], Portfolio[98]), Simons' firm, Grantham, Primecap Management, Joel Greenblatt [99] 
(Trades[100], Portfolio[101]), Jones and Keeley-Teton Advisors, LLC [102] (Trades[103], Portfolio[104]) also have 
positions in the REIT. Additional trades and portfolio composition 
During the quarter, Ketterer also established positions in America Movil SAB de CV ( AMX[105], Financial[106]), 
Cemex SAB de CV (CX[107], Financial[108]) and Jackson Financial Inc. (JXN[109], Financial[110]), added to the 
Berry Global Group Inc. (BERY[111], Financial[112]) holding and curbed the stakes in JD.com Inc. (JD[113], 
Financial[114]), Exelon Corp. (EXC[115], Financial[116]) and Oracle Corp. (ORCL[117], Financial[118]). She also 
Sarah Ketterer Boosts 2 Top Holdings, Creates GE Stake
sold out of Quest Diagnostics Inc. (DGX[119], Financial[120]). Her $4.44 billion equity portfolio, which is composed 
of 81 stocks, is the most heavily invested in the technology sector with a weight of 26.15%. 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/summary 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/summary 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Sarah+Ketterer 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Sarah+Ketterer 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/GE/summary 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/GE 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RYAAY/summary 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/RYAAY 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BAP/summary 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/BAP 
[ 
10]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HRC/summary 
[ 
11]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/HRC 
[ 
12]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARE/summary 
[ 
13]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/ARE 
[ 
14]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/GE/summary 
[ 
15]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/GE 
[ 
16]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/bill+nygren/summary 
[ 
17]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Bill+Nygren 
[ 
18]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Bill+Nygren 
[ 
19]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/andreas+halvorsen/summary 
[ 
20]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Andreas+Halvorsen 
[ 
21]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Andreas+Halvorsen 
[ 
22]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/richard+pzena/summary 
[ 
23]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Richard+Pzena 
[ 
24]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Richard+Pzena 
[ 
25]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/t+rowe+price+equity+income+fund/summary 
[ 
26]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=T+Rowe+Price+Equity+Income+Fund 
[ 
27]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=T+Rowe+Price+Equity+Income+Fund 
[ 
28]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nelson+peltz/summary 
[ 
29]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Nelson+Peltz 
[ 
30]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Nelson+Peltz 
[ 
31]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/mason+hawkins/summary 
[ 
32]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Mason+Hawkins 
[ 
33]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Mason+Hawkins 
[ 
34]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/jim+simons/summary 
[ 
35]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Jim+Simons 
[ 
36]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Jim+Simons 
[ 
37]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RYAAY/summary [ 38]: https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/RYAAY [ 39]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/baillie+gifford/summary 
[ 
40]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Baillie+Gifford 
[ 
41]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Baillie+Gifford 
[ 
42]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/david+herro/summary 
[ 
43]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=David+Herro 
[ 
44]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=David+Herro 
[ 
45]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/causeway+international+value/summary 
[ 
46]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Causeway+International+Value 
[ 
47]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Causeway+International+Value 
[ 
48]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/primecap+management/summary 
[ 
49]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=PRIMECAP+Management 
[ 
50]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=PRIMECAP+Management 
[ 
51]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/julian+robertson/summary 
[ 
52]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Julian+Robertson 
[ 
53]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Julian+Robertson 
[ 
54]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/francis+chou/summary 
[ 
55]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Francis+Chou 
[ 
56]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Francis+Chou 
[ 
57]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BAP/summary 
[ 
58]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/BAP 
[ 
59]: 
Sarah Ketterer Boosts 2 Top Holdings, Creates GE Stake
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/baillie+gifford/summary 
[ 
60]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Baillie+Gifford 
[ 
61]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Baillie+Gifford 
[ 
62]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/john+rogers/summary 
[ 
63]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=John+Rogers 
[ 
64]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=John+Rogers 
[ 
65]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/ron+baron/summary 
[ 
66]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Ron+Baron 
[ 
67]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Ron+Baron 
[ 
68]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/jeremy+grantham/summary 
[ 
69]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Jeremy+Grantham 
[ 
70]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Jeremy+Grantham 
[ 
71]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/charles+brandes/summary 
[ 
72]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Charles+Brandes 
[ 
73]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Charles+Brandes 
[ 
74]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/ken+fisher/summary 
[ 
75]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Ken+Fisher 
[ 
76]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Ken+Fisher 
[ 
77]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/diamond+hill+capital/summary 
[ 
78]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Diamond+Hill+Capital 
[ 
79]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Diamond+Hill+Capital 
[ 
80]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HRC/summary 
[ 
81]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/HRC 
[ 
82]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/george+soros/summary 
[ 
83]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=George+Soros 
[ 
84]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=George+Soros 
[ 
85]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/paul+tudor+jones/summary 
[ 
86]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Paul+Tudor+Jones 
[ 
87]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Paul+Tudor+Jones 
[ 
88]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/mario+gabelli/summary 
[ 
89]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Mario+Gabelli 
[ 
90]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Mario+Gabelli 
[ 
91]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/ray+dalio/summary 
[ 
92]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Ray+Dalio 
[ 
93]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Ray+Dalio 
[ 
94]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARE/summary 
[ 
95]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/ARE 
[ 
96]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/chris+davis/summary 
[ 
97]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Chris+Davis 
[ 
98]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Chris+Davis 
[ 
99]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/joel+greenblatt/summary 
[ 
100]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Joel+Greenblatt 
[ 
101]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Joel+Greenblatt 
[ 
102]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/keeley-teton+advisors,+llc/summary 
[ 
103]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=Keeley-Teton+Advisors%2C+LLC 
[ 
104]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/holdings.php?GuruName=Keeley-Teton+Advisors%2C+LLC 
[ 
105]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AMX/summary 
[ 
106]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/AMX 
[ 
107]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CX/summary 
[ 
108]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/CX 
[ 
109]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/JXN/summary 
[ 
110]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/JXN 
[ 
111]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BERY/summary [ 112]: https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/BERY [ 113]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/JD/summary 
[ 
114]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/JD 
[ 
115]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EXC/summary 
[ 
116]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/EXC 
[ 
117]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ORCL/summary [ 118]: https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/ORCL [ 119]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DGX/summary [ 120]: https://www.gurufocus.com/financials/DGX 
Sarah Ketterer Boosts 2 Top Holdings, Creates GE Stake
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 19, 2021
End of Document
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Boosts Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Boosts Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
November 17, 2021 Wednesday 5:15 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 864 words
Body
Nov 17, 2021( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Sawtooth Solutions LLC grew its holdings in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 16.1% during 
the 2nd quarter, Holdings Channel.com[1] reports. The institutional investor owned 2,080 shares of the 
transportation company's stock after acquiring an additional 289 shares during the quarter. Sawtooth Solutions 
LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $225,000 at the end of the most recent quarter.  
A number of other hedge funds have also recently modified their holdings of the stock. WealthShield Partners LLC 
grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 638.2% in the second quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after acquiring an additional 217 shares during the last 
quarter. Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new position in Ryanair in the second quarter valued at about 
$46,000. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. increased its position in Ryanair by 532.2% in the second quarter. 
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $58,000 
after buying an additional 463 shares in the last quarter. PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. purchased a new 
stake in Ryanair in the second quarter worth about $79,000. Finally, Captrust Financial Advisors increased its 
position in Ryanair by 47.8% in the first quarter. Captrust Financial Advisors now owns 1,524 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $175,000 after buying an additional 493 shares in the last quarter. 43.91% of 
the stock is currently owned by institutional investors.  
A number of analysts have commented on the company. Peel Hunt upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a 
"buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Redburn Partners upgraded 
Ryanair from a "neutral" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 target price for the company in a research report 
on Tuesday, July 27th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co. reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with 
a hold rating and thirteen have issued a buy rating to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, 
the company presently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.48. 
NASDAQ:RYAAY[2] opened at $114.66 on Wednesday. The firm has a market capitalization of $25.88 billion, a 
price-to-earnings ratio of -32.57 and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $94.68 and a 1 year 
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Boosts Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
high of $127.25. The business has a 50 day simple moving average of $113.62 and a 200-day simple moving 
average of $111.63. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34.  
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: What are benefits of a growth and income fund?[3] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[4] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: http://www.holdingschannel.com/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 3]: 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-are-benefits-of-growth-and-income-fund/ 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 17, 2021
End of Document
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Buys 289 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Buys 289 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Zolmax.com
November 17, 2021 Wednesday 4:05 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 842 words
Body
Nov 17, 2021( Zolmax.com: http://www.zolmax.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Sawtooth Solutions LLC boosted its stake in Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 16.1% in the second 
quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The fund owned 
2,080 shares of the transportation company's stock after purchasing an additional 289 shares during the quarter. 
Sawtooth Solutions LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $225,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
A number of other hedge funds and other institutional investors also recently added to or reduced their stakes in the 
stock. Optiver Holding B.V. acquired a new position in Ryanair during the 1st quarter worth approximately 
$13,878,000. Lazard Asset Management LLC raised its holdings in Ryanair by 6.3% in the 2nd quarter. Lazard 
Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 
after acquiring an additional 296,366 shares during the period. Capital International Investors grew its position in 
shares of Ryanair by 3.1% in the second quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares during the 
last quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC increased its stake in shares of Ryanair by 14.3% during 
the second quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $243,862,000 after purchasing an additional 281,774 shares during the period. Finally, Bank 
of America Corp DE lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 17.8% during the 2nd quarter. Bank of America Corp DE now 
owns 1,194,585 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $129,266,000 after purchasing an additional 
180,625 shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
Shares of RYAAY[1] opened at $114.66 on Wednesday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick 
ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week high of 
$127.25. The firm has a market cap of $25.88 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.57 and a beta of 1.56. The 
business's fifty day moving average is $113.62 and its 200-day moving average is $111.63.  
Several research analysts have weighed in on the company. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reiterated a "buy" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Sanford C. Bernstein cut shares of 
Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research note on Monday, November 8th. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. restated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 
25th. Morgan Stanley reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 
2nd. Finally, Peel Hunt upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Friday, 
Sawtooth Solutions LLC Buys 289 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
September 17th. Five analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned a buy rating to the 
stock. According to MarketBeat, Ryanair presently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of 
$122.48. 
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: Example of operating income, EBIT and EBITDA[2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-
operating-income/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 17, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 17, 2021 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 155 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1459.4 -42.60 1890.2 1073 - -2.42 1448.6 CompassX 1526.5 -3.00 1721.63 18.06 - -
66.08 4092.6 Dalata Hotel 344.50 -14.50 414.50 272.00 - -13.16 15.6 easyJet 580.20 -8.60 1095 550.20 - -1.91 
4344.5 FirstGrp 100.80 -0.80 104.00 59.40 - 25.85 1794.8 Flutter Entertainment 11900 -220.00 19680.8 11700 - -
298.99 409.5 Fuller A 650.00 30.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.44 46.3 Go-Ahead 764.00 -18.50 1463 683.03 - -7.13 55.0 
IntCon Htels Gp 5028 12.00 46170 4389 - -4963.47 319.8 Intl Cons Air 160.08 -2.54 222.10 2.06 - -1.65 25578.4 
MandarO $ 2.28 - 2.36 1.65 - -7.40 118.7 Marstons 77.25 -0.90 105.50 59.35 - -1.17 1336.6 Natl Exp 238.80 -2.40 
413.50 206.70 - -5.15 1037.2 PPHE Htl 1360 - 1800 1175 - -6.04 10.1 Restaurt 92.60 13.30 140.00 52.56 - 9.74 
7270.9 Ryanair Holdings PLC 309.50 -0.50 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.46 142.0 TUI 220.80 -5.10 580.20 210.70 - -1.49 
2913.2 Whitbrd 3129 -31.00 3949.01 36.28 - -6.49 419.2
Load-Date: November 16, 2021
End of Document
Joramco announces extension of maintenance agreement with Ryanair
Joramco announces extension of maintenance agreement with Ryanair
MarketLine NewsWire (Formerly Datamonitor)
November 17, 2021 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 MarketLine All Rights Reserved
Section: IRELAND; Technology & Telecommunications
Length: 161 words
Highlight: Joramco, the Amman-based maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO) provider and the engineering 
arm of Dubai Aerospace Enterprise (DAE), has announced the extension of its maintenance agreement with the 
Irish budget airline operator Ryanair.
Body
Under the agreement signed in 2019, Joramco is to perform heavy checks on more aircraft from the airline's Boeing 
737-800 fleet. The aircraft arrived on November 1st 2021 to perform nose to tail, 11 and 14 years checks. CEO of 
Joramco Fraser Currie stated, "We are pleased to continue the partnership between Joramco and Ryanair, which 
confirms that we are more than capable of providing first-class maintenance services to the satisfaction of our 
customers and airline partners around the world. We are honored that Ryanair continues to trust Joramco's 
expertise to meet their high expectations." Commenting on the agreement, Andrew Holder, Deputy Director Heavy 
Maintenance at Ryanair said, "Ryanair are pleased to be continuing their long-term relationship with Joramco, we 
have a busy season ahead with nose to tail heavy checks and knowing Joramco will deliver the high standards of 
maintenance demanded by us is true testament to the relationship we have built".
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Offers Sale to Christmas Market Destinations
Ryanair (RYAAY) Offers Sale to Christmas Market Destinations
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
November 17, 2021 Wednesday 4:45 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1128 words
Byline: Zacks Equity Research
Body
Nov 17, 2021( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 With the winter holiday travel period approaching, Ryanair Holdings RYAAY[1] has launched a seat sale to 
Europe's topChristmas market destinations. 
RYAAY is offering more than 100,000 seats for a sale of only 16.99 each to Europe's popular destinations like 
Brussels, Budapest, Prague and Vienna, among others. These low fares are available for booking on Ryanair's 
website before Nov 21 midnight for travel up to Dec 31, 2021. 
With air-travel demand steadily improving in the European Union, thanks to the easing of coronavirus-led 
restrictions and increase in vaccinations, Ryanair's low fares are expected to boost traffic. Evidently, the airline's 
October traffic surged more than 100% year over year to 11.3 million guests. Load factor (percentage of seats filled 
with passengers) in the period was 84% compared with 73% in October 2020. The carrier's traffic has been 
consistently 
improving 
over 
the 
past 
few 
months. 
Ryanair 
Holdings 
PLC 
Price 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/chart/RYAAY/fundamental/price?icid=chart-RYAAY-fundamental/price 
Ryanair 
Holdings PLC price[2] | Ryanair Holdings PLC Quote[3] 
 Earlier this month, Ryanair, carrying a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell), launched a special deal with 80,000 seats on sale for 
9.99 each in more than 530 routes across Europe for travel this November and December. This sale includes some 
of Europe's top destinations, such as, Faro, Portugal; and Lanzarote, Malaga and Tenerife in Spain. Key Picks Here 
are some better-ranked stocks within the broader Transportation [4]sector: 
Schneider National SNDR[5] sports a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). The company has a stellar earnings surprise 
history, having outperformed the Zacks Consensus Estimate in each of the preceding four quarters, the average 
beat being 21%. You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank stocks here[6]. 
Shares of Schneider National have rallied more than 27% so far this year. 
Landstar System LSTR[7] carries a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy). The company's earnings have trumped the Zacks 
Consensus Estimate in each of the trailing four quarters, the average beat being 11.4%. 
Shares of Landstar have gained more than 35% so far this year. 
Controladora Vuela Compania de Aviacion, B. de C.V VLRS[8] carries a Zacks Rank #2. The company has an 
impressive earnings surprise history, having surpassed the Zacks Consensus Estimate in each of the preceding 
four quarters, the average beat being more than 100%. 
Shares of Controladora Vuela have surged more than 37% so far this year. 
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Offers Sale to Christmas Market Destinations
 Zacks' Top Picks to Cash in on Artificial Intelligence 
 This world-changing technology is projected to generate $100s of billions by 2025. From self-driving cars to 
consumer data analysis, people are relying on machines more than we ever have before. Now is the time to 
capitalize on the 4th Industrial Revolution. Zacks' urgent special report reveals 6 AI picks investors need to know 
about today. See 6 Artificial Intelligence Stocks With Extreme Upside Potential > >[9] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[10] Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[11] 
Controladora Vuela Compania de Aviacion, S.A.B. de C.V. (VLRS): Free Stock Analysis Report[12] Landstar 
System, Inc. (LSTR): Free Stock Analysis Report[13] Schneider National, Inc. (SNDR): Free Stock Analysis 
Report[14] To read this article on Zacks.com click here.[15] Zacks Investment Research[16] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/chart/RYAAY/fundamental/price?icid=chart-RYAAY-fundamental/price 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY?icid=chart-RYAAY-fundamental/price 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/industry-rank/sector/transportation-15 [ 5]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/SNDR 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/buy-list/?ADID=zp_1link&ICID=zpi%20_1link 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/LSTR 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/VLRS 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/4e87?add=1749&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_AIREPORT_B_ANALYSTBLOG_257_11172021&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1828933 
[ 
10]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-1828933 
[ 
11]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1828933 
[ 
12]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZR_LINK&d_alert=rd_final_rank&t=VLRS&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZR_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1828933 
[ 
13]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=LSTR&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1828933 
[ 
14]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=SNDR&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_257&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-
_corporate_actions-1828933 
[ 
15]: 
http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1828933/ryanair-ryaay-offers-sale-to-
christmas-market-destinations?cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Ccompany_news_-_corporate_actions-
1828933 [ 16]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 17, 2021
Ryanair ( RYAAY ) Offers Sale to Christmas Market Destinations
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Lowered to 'Neutral' at Oddo Bhf
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Lowered to 'Neutral' at Oddo Bhf
Newstex Blogs 
Watchlist News
November 16, 2021 Tuesday 11:35 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 900 words
Body
Nov 16, 2021( Watchlist News: http://www.watchlistnews.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 https://www.marketbeat.com/logos/ryanair-holdings-plc-logo.jpgOddo 
Bhf 
lowered 
shares 
of 
Ryanair 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY) from an outperform rating to a neutral rating in a report released on Monday morning, The Fly[1] 
reports. 
 A number of other analysts have also recently commented on the stock. Redburn Partners upgraded shares of 
Ryanair from a neutral rating to a buy rating and set a $108.24 price objective for the company in a research report 
on Tuesday, July 27th. Sanford C. Bernstein cut shares of Ryanair from an outperform rating to a market perform 
rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. UBS Group restated a neutral rating on shares of Ryanair in 
a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft restated a buy rating on shares 
of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Raymond James upped their price objective on 
shares of Ryanair from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the company an outperform rating in a research report on 
Thursday, October 7th. Five equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have 
given a buy rating to the company. According to MarketBeat.com, Ryanair presently has a consensus rating of Buy 
and an average price target of $122.48. 
RYAAY stock[2] opened at $114.63 on Monday. The business's fifty day moving average is $113.49 and its 200-
day moving average is $111.65. The company has a quick ratio of 1.34, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity 
ratio of 0.96. The company has a market cap of $25.88 billion, a P/E ratio of -32.57 and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair has 
a twelve month low of $94.68 and a twelve month high of $127.25.  
 A number of large investors have recently modified their holdings of the stock. Profund Advisors LLC lifted its stake 
in Ryanair by 2.7% in the 2nd quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $486,000 after purchasing an additional 117 shares during the last quarter. First 
Republic Investment Management Inc. lifted its position in Ryanair by 3.5% during the third quarter. First Republic 
Investment Management Inc. now owns 3,975 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $437,000 after 
acquiring an additional 134 shares during the last quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company 
LLC lifted its position in Ryanair by 1.2% during the second quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management 
Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,318,000 after acquiring an 
additional 144 shares during the last quarter. Atria Investments LLC lifted its position in Ryanair by 1.0% during the 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Lowered to 'Neutral' at Oddo Bhf
second quarter. Atria Investments LLC now owns 14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$1,595,000 after acquiring an additional 148 shares during the last quarter. Finally, Assetmark Inc. lifted its position 
in Ryanair by 133.6% during the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the transportation 
company's stock worth $30,000 after acquiring an additional 155 shares during the last quarter. Institutional 
investors and hedge funds own 43.91% of the company's stock.  
About Ryanair 
 Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
 Read More: What are the reasons investors use put options? 
https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/how-put-option-works/ 
 http://www.thefly.com 
Receive News & Ratings for Ryanair Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of 
the latest news and analysts' ratings for Ryanair and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email 
newsletter[3]. 
 [ 
1]: 
http://www.thefly.com/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.watchlistnews.com/daily-email-updates-basic/?symbol=NASDAQ:RYAAY&c=Ryanair 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 16, 2021
End of Document
Bratislava Airport: 4 new Routes for W21
Bratislava Airport: 4 new Routes for W21
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
November 16, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 319 words
Body
Bratislava receives 4 new routes for the W21 schedule which will help boost recovery of traffic and tourism. The 
winter network will comprise of 23 scheduled and 2 seasonal charter routes.
4 new routes were announced as an addition to the winter scheduled offered from Bratislava M. R. Stefanik Airport, 
Slovakia. One of the new routes will be operated by the Czech airline Smartwings and three new routes were 
introduced by the biggest airline operating in BTS, Ryanair.
Smartwings has launched a one-weekly route from Bratislava to Dubai with inaugural flight taking place on 24th 
October 2021. Dubai belongs to strongly demanded destinations for warm weather breaks during winter in Slovakia 
and Smartwings reacted to the opportunity created by the continuing pause of the Bratislava - Dubai route formerly 
operated by flydubai, where resumption keeps postponing since February last year.
The biggest operator in Bratislava, Ryanair adds some fresh news to its offering from the capital of Slovakia, having 
open new routes to Copenhagen and Lanzarote as of November and Lviv coming in from 2nd January 2022. 
Ryanair´s base in Bratislava is operated by the group member Buzz and is station to two Ryanair aircraft. Ryanair´s 
network from Bratislava comprises of 16 routes, with likes of Eindhoven, Milan Bergamo and Thessaloniki resuming 
eventually after the Covid pandemic hiatus.
Apart from the above, Wizz Air will operate 5 routes from Bratislava to: Sofia, Skopje, London Luton, Kiev and Lviv.
Two chartered series will head towards Salalah in Oman and to Hurghada.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Continued expansion and investment in domestic service from Stockholm Arlanda - Ryanair to launch 12 new 
routes for summer 2022 season
Continued expansion and investment in domestic service from Stockholm 
Arlanda - Ryanair to launch 12 new routes for summer 2022 season
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
November 16, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 360 words
Body
Ryanair continues to expand and invest in the Swedish market and will launch ten new international direct routes for 
the summer season, with a number of these to brand-new European destinations from Stockholm Arlanda Airport, 
as well as two domestic routes to Luleå and Visby. That means a total of 35 new routes and more than 140 weekly 
departures from Arlanda.
In conjunction with the inauguration of Ryanair's new base at Stockholm Arlanda Airport and twenty-three new 
routes for the winter season, the Irish low-cost carrier announced its continued expansion, with twelve new routes 
for the summer 2022 season. Ryanair will place four aircraft at its base and launch 35 new routes within six months, 
which will mean more than 140 weekly departures from Arlanda.
Half of these destinations are new for the airport and complement Arlanda's other destinations on offer. In 
conjunction with the establishment of its new base at Arlanda, Ryanair will also launch domestic service to Luleå 
and Visby from Arlanda.
"It is with great joy that we welcome Ryanair to Arlanda as well as their continued expansion in the Swedish market. 
The airline's twelve new routes to exciting destinations in Europe, including two domestic ones, are an important 
addition and complement to the existing offering at our airports. At the same time, this improves access both within 
and outside Sweden, especially for the important family and friends travel segment. This access is important with 
the restart after the pandemic, and having more direct routes is important for growth in the region and the tourism 
industry all across Sweden. We have had a good collaboration with Ryanair for many years, which we now look 
forward to developing even further going forward," says Charlotte Ljunggren, Director of Marketing & Sales at 
Swedavia.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Continued expansion and investment in domestic service from Stockholm Arlanda - Ryanair to launch 12 new 
routes for summer 2022 season
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Share Price Passes Below Fifty Day Moving Average of $16.73
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Share Price Passes Below Fifty Day Moving Average of 
$16.73
American Banking and Market News
November 16, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 217 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (LON:RYA) shares passed below its 50-day moving average during trading on 
Monday . The stock has a 50-day moving average of GBX 16.73 ($0.22) and traded as low as GBX 16.50 ($0.22). 
Ryanair shares last traded at GBX 16.82 ($0.22), with a volume of 512,064 shares trading hands.  
Separately, Liberum Capital  reaffirmed a "hold" rating and issued a GBX 1,700 ($22.21) price target on shares of 
Ryanair in a report on Monday, July 26th. 
The company has a quick ratio of 1.14, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 116.44. The firm's 50 day 
simple moving average is GBX 16.73 and its two-hundred day simple moving average is GBX 16.50. The stock has 
a market cap of £189.81 million and a P/E ratio of -29.09.  
Ryanair Company Profile (LON:RYA ) 
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Germany, and Other European countries. It is also involved in the provision of various 
ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and internet-related services; in-flight sale of beverages, 
food, and merchandise; and marketing accommodation and hotel services, car hire, and travel insurance through its 
Website and mobile app. 
Featured Article: CD Ladder 
Load-Date: November 16, 2021
End of Document
Lufthansa repays all of German gov't bailout funds
Lufthansa repays all of German gov't bailout funds
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
November 16, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 511 words
Body
Lufthansa (LH, Frankfurt Int'l) has announced it repaid "much earlier than originally planned" the last of its EUR9 
billion euro (USD10.3 billion) bailout, so that the German government will now look to sell its stake in the group - 
currently amounting to around 14% - by October 2023 at the latest.
Of this EUR9 billion, the company had drawn down around EUR3.8 billion (USD4.35 billion) in total. The final EUR1 
billion (USD1.15 billion) chunk of these "silent participation" loans, including interest, was paid back on November 
12, funds that had been extended last year through the government's Covid-specific Economic Stabilisation Fund 
(WSF). The company opted to cancel the unused part of the aid package, Lufthansa explained in a statement.
Returning the funds "was made possible primarily by the rising demand for air travel, the fast restructuring and 
transformation of Lufthansa Group, and the capital markets' confidence in the company," it said.
In October, Lufthansa completed a EUR2.162 billion (USD2.48 billion) capital increase, deploying EUR1.5 billion 
(USD1.72 billion) of it to eliminate the Silent Participation I part of the funding. Its latest step towards a return to 
normal came after revealing last week that it had raised another EUR1.5 billion in its third bond sale this year, which 
it said "will further contribute to the full repayment of the government stabilisation measures in Germany."
"On behalf of all Lufthansa employees, I would like to thank the German government and the German taxpayers. In 
the most serious financial crisis in our company's history, they have given us a perspective for the future. This has 
enabled us to save more than 100,000 jobs," Lufthansa CEO Carsten Spohr commented.
However, he added that "many challenges remain" and "we will consistently continue the restructuring and 
transformation of the company."
Among other issues, a plan to impose pay cuts on its pilots has met with resistance from the union Vereinigung 
Cockpit (VC), while reducing its fleet and investing less money in new aircraft could put it at a disadvantage to 
comparatively cash-rich budget carriers Wizz Air, which has just signed up for another 102 new aircraft from Airbus, 
and Ryanair.
At a press conference on November 12, Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said that the German government had 
made the right decision in aiding Lufthansa.
Lufthansa repays all of German gov't bailout funds
"It faced a lot of criticism at the time," he said. "Many believed the government would never see the funds again. In 
the end, Lufthansa would become a state company. All of these fears, I would like to clarify again today, have not 
materialised. Lufthansa made an effort. It used the state money to get through the most difficult months of the 
pandemic."
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
EU approves more Belarus sanctions over 'illegal push of migrants' Border tension
EU approves more Belarus sanctions over 'illegal push of migrants'; Border 
tension
Financial Times (London, England)
November 16, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 473 words
Byline: POLINA IVANOVA ;MAX SEDDON; JAMES SHOTTER
Body
The EU is to target airlines, travel agencies and individuals in Belarus involved in an "illegal push of migrants", EU 
top diplomat Josep Borrell said yesterday, amid a growing humanitarian crisis that the EU says has been 
orchestrated by Minsk.
EU foreign ministers agreed yesterday to impose further sanctions against Belarus, which they accuse of 
intentionally attracting migrants to its borders as part of a plan to destabilise the bloc in retaliation for its support for 
the Belarusian political opposition. Around 30 individuals and businesses will be targeted, according to diplomats.
Ireland has also agreed to measures affecting its own aircraft leasing industry, ordering companies to recall 17 
aircraft belonging to Belavia, the Belarusian state airline ferrying many of the migrants to Minsk.
Simon Coveney, Irish foreign minister, said: "That is a consequence for us but that is absolutely the right thing to 
do. The contracts under which they are leased to Belavia will essentially be cut and these planes will have to be 
returned or I presume legal action will be taken."
The EU was "doing what it can to put as much pressure as we can" on President
Alexander Lukashenko, he added. Belavia has about 30 aircraft.
EU approves more Belarus sanctions over 'illegal push of migrants' Border tension
Most of the migrants trying to enter the EU from Belarus are from the Middle East and yesterday Iraq said it would 
organise a first repatriation flight this week for Iraqi migrants stuck on the Belarus-Poland border.
In Belarus, migrants are living in makeshift tent camps and huts, alongside a barbed wire fence guarded by 
thousands of Polish soldiers and police.
But despite the freezing conditions, many say they will not return home.
Yesterday, several hundred migrants gathered at the border crossing between Belarus and Poland near the village 
of Kuznica.
On Sunday, Borrell discussed the crisis with Belarus foreign minister Vladimir Makei, the EU's first high-level talks 
with Minsk since Lukashenko violently suppressed protests against his fraud-ridden re-election last summer.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Russian president Vladimir Putin had spoken to Lukashenko and German 
chancellor Angela Merkel about the situation, in the hope they would then speak to each other. President 
Emmanuel Macron of France also discussed ways to de-escalate the crisis with Putin yesterday, Paris said.
Lukashenko has repeatedly said the EU should negotiate with him directly to end the crisis.
Direct flights from Baghdad to Minsk were suspended in August. Travel via Turkey was halted on Friday for citizens 
of Iraq, Yemen and Syria. A private Syrian airline suspended flights on Saturday. Travel via Dubai was shut to 
migrants yesterday.
Monday's sanctions add to those imposed on officials in Belarus over last year's crackdown and the forced landing 
of a Ryanair flight in Minsk in May.
Additional reporting by Andy Bounds
Load-Date: November 15, 2021
End of Document
EU approves more Belarus sanctions over 'illegal push of migrants' Border tension
EU approves more Belarus sanctions over 'illegal push of migrants'; Border 
tension
Financial Times (London, England)
November 16, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 473 words
Byline: POLINA IVANOVA;MAX SEDDON;JAMES SHOTTER
Body
The EU is to target airlines, travel agencies and individuals in Belarus involved in an "illegal push of migrants", EU 
top diplomat Josep Borrell said yesterday, amid a growing humanitarian crisis that the EU says has been 
orchestrated by Minsk.
EU foreign ministers agreed yesterday to impose further sanctions against Belarus, which they accuse of 
intentionally attracting migrants to its borders as part of a plan to destabilise the bloc in retaliation for its support for 
the Belarusian political opposition. Around 30 individuals and businesses will be targeted, according to diplomats.
Ireland has also agreed to measures affecting its own aircraft leasing industry, ordering companies to recall 17 
aircraft belonging to Belavia, the Belarusian state airline ferrying many of the migrants to Minsk.
Simon Coveney, Irish foreign minister, said: "That is a consequence for us but that is absolutely the right thing to 
do. The contracts under which they are leased to Belavia will essentially be cut and these planes will have to be 
returned or I presume legal action will be taken."
The EU was "doing what it can to put as much pressure as we can" on President
Alexander Lukashenko, he added. Belavia has about 30 aircraft.
EU approves more Belarus sanctions over 'illegal push of migrants' Border tension
Most of the migrants trying to enter the EU from Belarus are from the Middle East and yesterday Iraq said it would 
organise a first repatriation flight this week for Iraqi migrants stuck on the Belarus-Poland border.
In Belarus, migrants are living in makeshift tent camps and huts, alongside a barbed wire fence guarded by 
thousands of Polish soldiers and police.
But despite the freezing conditions, many say they will not return home.
Yesterday, several hundred migrants gathered at the border crossing between Belarus and Poland near the village 
of Kuznica.
On Sunday, Borrell discussed the crisis with Belarus foreign minister Vladimir Makei, the EU's first high-level talks 
with Minsk since Lukashenko violently suppressed protests against his fraud-ridden re-election last summer.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Russian president Vladimir Putin had spoken to Lukashenko and German 
chancellor Angela Merkel about the situation, in the hope they would then speak to each other. President 
Emmanuel Macron of France also discussed ways to de-escalate the crisis with Putin yesterday, Paris said.
Lukashenko has repeatedly said the EU should negotiate with him directly to end the crisis.
Direct flights from Baghdad to Minsk were suspended in August. Travel via Turkey was halted on Friday for citizens 
of Iraq, Yemen and Syria. A private Syrian airline suspended flights on Saturday. Travel via Dubai was shut to 
migrants yesterday.
Monday's sanctions add to those imposed on officials in Belarus over last year's crackdown and the forced landing 
of a Ryanair flight in Minsk in May.
Additional reporting by Andy Bounds
Load-Date: November 15, 2021
End of Document
EU approves more Belarus sanctions over 'illegal push of migrants' Border tension
EU approves more Belarus sanctions over 'illegal push of migrants'; Border 
tension
Financial Times (London, England)
November 16, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2
Length: 473 words
Byline: POLINA IVANOVA ;MAX SEDDON ;JAMES SHOTTER
Body
The EU is to target airlines, travel agencies and individuals in Belarus involved in an "illegal push of migrants", EU 
top diplomat Josep Borrell said yesterday, amid a growing humanitarian crisis that the EU says has been 
orchestrated by Minsk.
EU foreign ministers agreed yesterday to impose further sanctions against Belarus, which they accuse of 
intentionally attracting migrants to its borders as part of a plan to destabilise the bloc in retaliation for its support for 
the Belarusian political opposition. Around 30 individuals and businesses will be targeted, according to diplomats.
Ireland has also agreed to measures affecting its own aircraft leasing industry, ordering companies to recall 17 
aircraft belonging to Belavia, the Belarusian state airline ferrying many of the migrants to Minsk.
Simon Coveney, Irish foreign minister, said: "That is a consequence for us but that is absolutely the right thing to 
do. The contracts under which they are leased to Belavia will essentially be cut and these planes will have to be 
returned or I presume legal action will be taken."
The EU was "doing what it can to put as much pressure as we can" on President
Alexander Lukashenko, he added. Belavia has about 30 aircraft.
EU approves more Belarus sanctions over 'illegal push of migrants' Border tension
Most of the migrants trying to enter the EU from Belarus are from the Middle East and yesterday Iraq said it would 
organise a first repatriation flight this week for Iraqi migrants stuck on the Belarus-Poland border.
In Belarus, migrants are living in makeshift tent camps and huts, alongside a barbed wire fence guarded by 
thousands of Polish soldiers and police.
But despite the freezing conditions, many say they will not return home.
Yesterday, several hundred migrants gathered at the border crossing between Belarus and Poland near the village 
of Kuznica.
On Sunday, Borrell discussed the crisis with Belarus foreign minister Vladimir Makei, the EU's first high-level talks 
with Minsk since Lukashenko violently suppressed protests against his fraud-ridden re-election last summer.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Russian president Vladimir Putin had spoken to Lukashenko and German 
chancellor Angela Merkel about the situation, in the hope they would then speak to each other. President 
Emmanuel Macron of France also discussed ways to de-escalate the crisis with Putin yesterday, Paris said.
Lukashenko has repeatedly said the EU should negotiate with him directly to end the crisis.
Direct flights from Baghdad to Minsk were suspended in August. Travel via Turkey was halted on Friday for citizens 
of Iraq, Yemen and Syria. A private Syrian airline suspended flights on Saturday. Travel via Dubai was shut to 
migrants yesterday.
Monday's sanctions add to those imposed on officials in Belarus over last year's crackdown and the forced landing 
of a Ryanair flight in Minsk in May.
Additional reporting by Andy Bounds
Load-Date: November 15, 2021
End of Document
EU approves more Belarus sanctions over 'illegal push of migrants' Border tension
EU approves more Belarus sanctions over 'illegal push of migrants'; Border 
tension
Financial Times (London, England)
November 16, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 4
Length: 481 words
Byline: POLINA IVANOVA;MAX SEDDON ;JAMES SHOTTER
Body
The EU is to target airlines, travel agencies and individuals in Belarus involved in an "illegal push of migrants", EU 
top diplomat Josep Borrell said yesterday, amid a humanitarian crisis Brussels says has been orchestrated by 
Minsk. The move came as Angela Merkel spoke by telephone to Alexander Lukashenko, a step urged on her by 
President Vladimir Putin of Russia, who spoke to the German chancellor and Belarus leader earlier in the day.
"The chancellor and Mr Lukashenko discussed the difficult situation on the border between Belarus and the 
European Union, in particular the need for humanitarian assistance for the refugees and migrants there," said 
Steffen Seibert, German government spokesman. "They agreed to continue the exchange on these issues."
EU foreign ministers agreed yesterday to impose further sanctions against Belarus, which they accuse of 
intentionally attracting migrants to its borders as part of a plan to destabilise the bloc in retaliation for its support for 
the Belarusian political opposition. Around 30 individuals and businesses will be targeted, according to diplomats.
Ireland has agreed to measures affecting its aircraft leasing industry, ordering companies to recall 17 aircraft 
belonging to Belavia, the Belarusian state airline ferrying many of the migrants to Minsk.
Simon Coveney, foreign minister, said: "That is a consequence for us but that is absolutely the right thing to do. The 
contracts under which they are leased to Belavia will essentially be cut and these planes will have to be returned or 
I presume legal action will be taken."
EU approves more Belarus sanctions over 'illegal push of migrants' Border tension
The EU was "doing what it can to put as much pressure as we can" on Lukashenko, he said. Belavia has about 30 
aircraft. Most of the migrants trying to enter the EU from Belarus are from the Middle East and Iraq said it would 
organise a first repatriation flight this week for Iraqis stuck on the Belarus-Poland border.
In Belarus, migrants are living in tent camps and huts, alongside a barbed wire fence guarded by thousands of 
Polish soldiers and police.
But despite the freezing conditions, many say they will not return home. Yesterday, several hundred migrants 
gathered at the border crossing between Belarus and Poland near the village of Kuznica.
On Sunday, Borrell discussed the crisis with Vladimir Makei, Belarus foreign minister, the EU's first high-level talks 
with Minsk since Lukashenko violently suppressed protests against his fraudridden re-election last summer.
Direct flights from Baghdad to Minsk were suspended in August. Travel via Turkey was halted on Friday for citizens 
of Iraq, Yemen and Syria. A private Syrian airline suspended flights on Saturday. Travel via Dubai was shut to 
migrants yesterday.
Monday's sanctions add to those imposed on officials in Belarus over last year's crackdown and the forced landing 
of a Ryanair flight in Minsk in May.
Additional reporting by Andy Bounds
Load-Date: November 15, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 16, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 154 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1502 -14.00 1890.2 1024 - -2.49 813.9 CompassX 1529.5 -14.00 1721.63 18.06 - -66.21 
2492.1 Dalata Hotel 344.50 -14.50 414.50 272.00 - -13.16 1.5 easyJet 588.80 -9.20 1095 550.20 - -1.94 4779.6 
FirstGrp 101.60 0.40 104.00 57.65 - 26.05 810.9 Flutter Entertainment 12120 -55.00 19680.8 11700 - -304.52 
180.9 Fuller A 620.00 -30.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.10 15.5 Go-Ahead 782.50 12.00 1463 683.03 - -7.30 47.6 IntCon 
Htels Gp 5016 -16.00 46170 4368 - -4951.63 351.6 Intl Cons Air 162.62 -1.70 222.10 2.06 - -1.68 25396.2 
MandarO $ 2.28 -0.04 2.36 1.65 - -7.40 37.7 Marstons 78.15 1.00 105.50 58.50 - -1.19 1986.7 Natl Exp 241.20 
2.80 413.50 206.70 - -5.20 1551.6 PPHE Htl 1360 -13.00 1800 1175 - -6.04 176.8 Restaurt 79.30 -0.20 140.00 
52.56 - 8.34 1295.7 Ryanair Holdings PLC 310.00 1.00 338.60 250.00 1.06 52.54 136.7 TUI 225.90 - 580.20 
210.70 - -1.53 2367.9 Whitbrd 3160 -40.00 3949.01 36.28 - -6.56 3
Load-Date: November 15, 2021
End of Document
Day 3 Dubai Airshow: Boeing finally gets some new aircraft deals
Day 3 Dubai Airshow: Boeing finally gets some new aircraft deals
Newstex Blogs 
AirInsight
November 16, 2021 Tuesday 3:07 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 684 words
Byline: Richard Schuurman
Body
Nov 16, 2021( AirInsight: http://airinsight.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 After a quiet start with only news about passenger to freighter conversions,Boeing[1] finally announced orders for 
new aircraft on the third day of Dubai Airshow. However, to none of the two occasions, media was invited. Day 3 
Dubai Airshow: Boeing finally gets some new aircraft deals. 
 The afternoon announcement was for Indian start-up Akasa Air[2], which plans to launch in the summer of 2022. 
The airline formed by ex Jet Airways executive Vinay Dube and owned by SNV Aviation had ordered 72 MAX. The 
exact numbers haven't been confirmed, but this will be a mix of the MAX 8 and the high-density MAX 8200. This 
makes Akasa the fifth airline to operate the 8200 after Ryanair and its two subsidiaries Buzz and Malta Air, while 
Vietjet has also ordered this version with a 200-seat cabin capacity. AirInsight discussed Akasa recently in this 
webcast.[3] 
 Boeing calls the order 'a key endorsement of the 737 family's capability to serve the rapidly growing Indian market.' 
SpiceJet is also a MAX customer, but the market is dominated by Airbus[4], which has placed huge numbers of 
A320neo-family aircraft with Indigo and Go Air (now Go First). The MAX order has a list price of nearly $9.0 billion. 
 In a Boeing media statement, Dube is quoted as saying: 'We believe that the new 737 MAX airplane will support 
our aim of running not just a cost-efficient, reliable and affordable airline, but also an environmentally friendly 
company with the youngest and greenest fleet in the Indian skies.' 
 He added, 'India is one of the fastest-growing aviation markets in the world with unparalleled potential. We are 
already witnessing a strong recovery in air travel, and we see decades of growth ahead of us. Akasa Air's core 
purpose is to help power India's growth engine and democratize air travel by creating an inclusive environment for 
all Indians regardless of their socio-economic or cultural backgrounds.' 
 https://i1.wp.com/airinsight.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Boeing_Air_Tanzania-1.jpg?ssl=1 
Air Tanzania adds MAX to the fleet 
Earlier in the day, Boeing confirmed orders for Air Tanzania. The carrier will add a third 787-8 to its existing 
Dreamliner fleet. It also ordered one 767-300F, plus two MAX. Boeing didn't specify the version but from the 
animated picture it looks like the carrier has selected the MAX 9. The carrier's current single-aisle fleet consists of 
just two Airbus A220 as it retired some A320ceo's and 737-800s. Air Tanzania plans to use the aircraft from the 
latest order, which has a list price of $726 million, to expand its network to Africa, Asia, and Europe. 
 Please follow and like us: 
Day 3 Dubai Airshow: Boeing finally gets some new aircraft deals
 [ 1]: http://www.boeing.com [ 2]: https://www.akasaair.net/ [ 3]: https://airinsight.com/india-update-october-2021/ [ 
4]: https://airinsight.com/category/aerospace/airbus/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 16, 2021
End of Document
13 new routes at Milan Bergamo Airport
13 new routes at Milan Bergamo Airport
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
November 15, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 372 words
Body
Milan Bergamo Airport announces 13 new routes this winter
The 2021 winter season , which begun on Sunday 31 October 2021, led Milan Bergamo Airport to offer its widest 
winter route network ever, with a total of 116 destinations in 39 countries. Such offer reflects the optimism shown by 
17 scheduled carrier operating this winter at Milan Bergamo Airport.
Eurowings, Vueling, HiSky and Flyr are the four new carrier that Milan BGY welcomes with this season.
13 are the new routes opened ( and to be open ) during this season.
The first four started on Sunday 31 October, with Ryanair inaugurating flights to Düsseldorf Weeze, Helsinki and 
Birmingham, and easyJet opening the route to London Gatwick.
On November 1st, Ryanair also begun another two important routes to Liverpool and Toulouse.
The sixt Ryanair's new route has been Stockholm Arlanda on November 2nd.
In the same day Vueling inaugurated its first flight from Paris Orly with an Airbus A321, further boostering capacity 
to the French capital in additition to easyJet to Paris Charles de Gaulle and Ryanair to Paris Beauvais. The Spanish 
carrier will also fly between Milan BGY and Barcelona during the Christmas period.
Another milestone of Winter 2021 season is arrival of Eurowings at Milan BGY with a 4-weekly flight to Dusseldorf 
International (DUS)
The next important date is 3 December, with the opening of Ryanair flights to Banja Luka, the welcoming 
monumental city in Bosnia Herzegovina situated 159 km from Sarajevo.
On December 20th the third new airline of the season (HiSky) will start its operation at Milan Bergamo with a twice-
weekly service to Tirgu Mures (TGM) to which will follow the opening of the Chisinau (KIV) route on Dec. 24th
Last but not least, on January 5th 2022 there will be the debut at Milan Bergamo Airport of the new Norwegian 
airline Flyr, which will be operating the route to Oslo-Gardermoen airport.
13 new routes at Milan Bergamo Airport
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Oddo Bhf Lowers Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) to Neutral
Oddo Bhf Lowers Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) to Neutral
American Banking and Market News
November 15, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 667 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by analysts at Oddo Bhf from an "outperform" rating to a 
"neutral" rating in a note issued to investors on Monday, The Fly  reports. 
•
Airline Stocks - Top Airline Stocks to Buy Now 
A number of other equities research analysts have also issued reports on RYAAY. Credit Suisse Group  restated an 
"outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Deutsche Bank 
Aktiengesellschaft  reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. 
Peel Hunt upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research report on Friday, September 17th. 
Sanford C. Bernstein lowered Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report 
on Monday, November 8th. Finally, Morgan Stanley  reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Five investment analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and 
thirteen have assigned  a buy rating to the company's stock. According to MarketBeat.com, Ryanair presently has 
an average rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.48. 
Shares of RYAAY stock  traded down $0.62 during trading hours on Monday, reaching $113.50. The company had 
a trading volume of 323 shares, compared to its average volume of 324,016. The company has a debt-to-equity 
ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The stock has a fifty day moving average of $113.36 
and a 200-day moving average of $111.67. The company has a market capitalization of $25.62 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of -32.24 and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair has a 12-month low of $94.68 and a 12-month high of $127.25.  
A number of institutional investors have recently bought and sold shares of the business. Neuberger Berman Group 
LLC raised its stake in  Ryanair by 1.2% in the third quarter. Neuberger Berman Group LLC now owns 20,650 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $2,236,000 after buying an additional 237 shares in the last 
quarter.  Profund Advisors LLC grew its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 4.3% during the third quarter. Profund 
Advisors LLC now owns 4,683 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $515,000 after purchasing an 
additional 195 shares during the last quarter.  HighTower Advisors LLC grew its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 
12.6% during the third quarter. HighTower Advisors LLC now owns 2,784 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $310,000 after purchasing an additional 312 shares during the last quarter.  Madison Asset 
Management LLC grew its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 1.4% during the third quarter. Madison Asset 
Management LLC now owns 31,859 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $3,506,000 after 
purchasing an additional 438 shares during the last quarter.  Finally, Schroder Investment Management Group grew 
its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 400.0% during the third quarter. Schroder Investment Management Group now 
owns 21,116 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $465,000 after purchasing an additional 16,893 
shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
Oddo Bhf Lowers Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) to Neutral
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: What is included in the gross domestic product? 
This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order 
to provide readers with the fastest and most accurate reporting. This story was reviewed by MarketBeat's editorial 
team prior to publication. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com
Load-Date: November 15, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Rating Lowered to Neutral at Oddo Bhf
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Rating Lowered to Neutral at Oddo Bhf
American Banking and Market News
November 15, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 536 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by investment analysts at Oddo Bhf from an "outperform" 
rating to a "neutral" rating in a research report issued to clients and investors on Monday, The Fly  reports. 
Several other analysts also recently weighed in on the company. Credit Suisse Group  reiterated an "outperform" 
rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  
reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Morgan Stanley  
reiterated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Raymond 
James lifted their target price on Ryanair from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the stock an "outperform" rating in a 
research report on Thursday, October 7th. Finally, UBS Group  reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in 
a research report on Tuesday, September 28th. Five research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and 
thirteen have given a buy rating to the company. Based on data from MarketBeat, Ryanair  has a consensus rating 
of "Buy" and an average price target of $122.48. 
NASDAQ RYAAY  traded down $0.46 on Monday, hitting $113.66. 638 shares of the stock were exchanged, 
compared to its average volume of 324,016. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 
and a current ratio of 1.34. The stock has a fifty day moving average price of $113.36 and a two-hundred day 
moving average price of $111.67. The firm has a market capitalization of $25.66 billion, a P/E ratio of -32.24 and a 
beta of 1.56. Ryanair has a 52-week low of $94.68 and a 52-week high of $127.25.  
Hedge funds have recently modified their holdings of the company. WealthShield Partners LLC boosted its position 
in  Ryanair by 638.2% in the second quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $27,000 after buying an additional 217 shares during the last quarter.  Assetmark Inc. 
boosted its position in  Ryanair by 133.6% in the third quarter. Assetmark Inc. now owns 271 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $30,000 after buying an additional 155 shares during the last quarter.  
Advisory Services Network LLC purchased a new stake in  Ryanair in the second quarter valued at approximately 
$46,000.  JFS Wealth Advisors LLC purchased a new stake in  Ryanair in the third quarter valued at approximately 
$47,000.  Finally, Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its position in  Ryanair by 532.2% in the second 
quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued 
at $58,000 after buying an additional 463 shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  
43.91% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Rating Lowered to Neutral at Oddo Bhf
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Portfolio Manager 
Load-Date: November 15, 2021
End of Document
Belarus Says Working To Return Migrants As EU Readies Sanctions
Belarus Says Working To Return Migrants As EU Readies Sanctions
Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
November 15, 2021 Monday 10:50 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 855 words
Body
Nov 15, 2021( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 President Alexander Lukashenko said Monday that Belarus was working to repatriate the migrants that have 
amassed on its border with Poland, appearing to move to defuse the crisis ahead of an EU meeting over new 
sanctions on Minsk. 
Thousands of migrants have been trying to cross from Belarus into EU member Poland for months but tensions 
soared last week as coordinated efforts to cross were rebuffed by Polish border guards. 
Brussels accuses Belarus of luring migrants to the ex-Soviet country and sending them on to the European Union 
as retribution for sanctions. 
The foreign ministers of the 27-nation bloc were meeting Monday to adopt new penalties over the crisis. 
Lukashenko said ahead of the meeting that Belarus does not want the border situation to escalate into a "conflict" 
and that it was working to send home the several thousand migrants, mostly from the Middle East. 
"Active work is underway in this area, to convince people -- please, return home. But nobody wants to go back," 
Lukashenko said, as quoted by state news agency Belta. 
"But these people, I must say, are very stubborn: no one wants to return," the strongman leader said. "They do not 
have housing there, they understand that there is nothing to feed their children." 
The 67-year-old also suggested that Belarus could take up an offer by officials in Munich to ferry the migrants via its 
state-run airline Belavia to Germany if Poland does not provide a "humanitarian corridor". 
"We will send them to Munich by our own planes, if necessary," Lukashenko said. 
"Organising a migration flow through Belarus is more expensive for ourselves," he said. "We have never done this 
and do not intend to do this." 
He added that Belarus will respond to additional EU sanctions. 
"They think that I am joking," he said. "We will defend ourselves." 
 Thousands of migrants have been trying to cross from Belarus into EU member Poland for months Photo: BELTA 
via AFP / Oksana MANCHUK  
Minsk has faced waves of EU sanctions in response to a crackdown on the opposition in the wake of last year's 
presidential elections and Lukashenko's decision to ground a Ryanair flight earlier this year over Belarus to detain 
an activist. 
Belarus Says Working To Return Migrants As EU Readies Sanctions
But despite Lukashenko's apparent olive branch, Germany's Foreign Minister Heiko Maas warned on Monday that 
Belarus still faced tougher sanctions over the migrant crisis. 
"We will further tighten sanctions," he said, as EU foreign ministers gathered. 
Belarus says there are about 2,000 people in the migrant camp, including pregnant women and children. Poland 
says there are between 3,000 and 4,000 migrants on the border, with more arriving every day. 
Belarusian authorities have delivered aid including tents and heaters -- a move that could make the camp a semi-
permanent presence on the EU's eastern border. 
Poland has refused to allow the migrants in and has accused Belarus of preventing them from leaving. 
On Sunday, Warsaw detained dozens of migrants who had crossed into Poland and warned of a possible larger 
breakthrough ahead of the EU meeting. 
Aid agencies say at least 10 migrants have died so far and have warned of a humanitarian crisis unfolding as 
temperatures drop below freezing. 
There have been several signs in recent days, though, that the crisis could relent. 
On Sunday, Belavia announced that Syrians, Iraqis, Yemenis and Afghans were banned from incoming flights from 
the United Arab Emirates at Dubai's request, after Minsk was accused of bringing in migrants to send on to Europe. 
The move came after Belavia on Friday banned Syrians, Iraqis and Yemenis from incoming flights from Turkey at 
Ankara's request. 
And on Monday, the Iraqi government said it was organising a repatriation flight this Thursday for its citizens stuck 
on the Poland-Belarus border on a "voluntary" basis. 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 15, 2021
End of Document
Airbus signs 255-jet deal with investor Franke Aerospace & defence
Airbus signs 255-jet deal with investor Franke; Aerospace & defence
Financial Times (London, England)
November 15, 2021 Monday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 8
Length: 459 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS ; SYLVIA PFEIFER
Body
Airbus has secured a multi-billiondollar order for 255 single-aisle jets from veteran airline investor Bill Franke, in a 
deal that underlines the plane maker's forecast that the industry is poised to rebound strongly from the pandemic.
The deal sealed at the Dubai Airshow yesterday packages A321neo aircraft for delivery to a number of low-cost 
airlines backed by Franke's Indigo Partners, including Europe's Wizz Air and Frontier in the US.
The order is a sign that low-cost, shorthaul airlines are rebounding from the pandemic and comes as Franke is 
positioning his airlines to capitalise on the industry-wide disruption.
"This order reaffirms our portfolio airlines' commitment to consistent growth through the next decade," he said.
The US private equity executive is considered to be one of the most successful aviation investors in history.
He has bought stakes in a clutch of low-cost airlines and spurred growth by cutting costs and focusing on 
expanding markets such as eastern Europe.
Wizz Air, which will receive 102 aircraft, has promised to use the pandemic to expand across Europe and beyond 
and made an unsuccessful bid for British rival easyJet this year. Rival low-cost carrier Ryanair signalled its own 
ambitions with an order from Boeing during the depths of the aviation crisis last December and is expecting delivery 
of more than 200 aircraft in coming years.
Airbus signs 255-jet deal with investor Franke Aerospace & defence
The Wizz order includes 27 A321XLR, longer-range aircraft capable of reaching the Middle East from western 
Europe, following Wizz's launch of an Abu Dhabibased joint venture this year.
Frontier will receive 91 aircraft while Latin American carriers Volaris and Jet- Smart will get 39 and 23, respectively.
Neither Airbus nor Indigo released details on pricing.
Airbus this weekend said it expected industry growth to be driven by airlines upgrading older, inefficient aircraft and 
the soaring demand for air cargo.
The European plane maker forecast demand for 39,000 new-build passenger and freighter aircraft, 15,250 of these 
as replacements for ageing planes, by 2040. The Airbus forecast is less than 1 per cent lower than its previous one 
issued in 2019 before the pandemic, underlining its optimism that the industry is back on track.
As the aviation industry struggles to find a quick way to decarbonise, newer aircraft offer a way to reduce emissions 
on a per passenger basis.
"The world is expecting more sustainable flying and this will be made possible in the short-term by the introduction 
of most modern aeroplanes," said Christian Scherer, chief commercial officer at Airbus. "As economies and air 
transport mature, we see demand increasingly driven by replacement rather than growth."
'This order reaffirms our airlines' commitment to consistent growth through the next decade'
Load-Date: November 14, 2021
End of Document
Airbus signs 255-jet deal with investor Franke Aerospace & defence
Airbus signs 255-jet deal with investor Franke; Aerospace & defence
Financial Times (London, England)
November 15, 2021 Monday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 10
Length: 459 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS ;SYLVIA PFEIFER
Body
Airbus has secured a multi-billiondollar order for 255 single-aisle jets from veteran airline investor Bill Franke, in a 
deal that underlines the plane maker's forecast that the industry is poised to rebound strongly from the pandemic.
The deal sealed at the Dubai Airshow yesterday packages A321neo aircraft for delivery to a number of low-cost 
airlines backed by Franke's Indigo Partners, including Europe's Wizz Air and Frontier in the US.
The order is a sign that low-cost, shorthaul airlines are rebounding from the pandemic and comes as Franke is 
positioning his airlines to capitalise on the industry-wide disruption.
"This order reaffirms our portfolio airlines' commitment to consistent growth through the next decade," he said.
The US private equity executive is considered to be one of the most successful aviation investors in history.
He has bought stakes in a clutch of low-cost airlines and spurred growth by cutting costs and focusing on 
expanding markets such as eastern Europe.
Wizz Air, which will receive 102 aircraft, has promised to use the pandemic to expand across Europe and beyond 
and made an unsuccessful bid for British rival easyJet this year. Rival low-cost carrier Ryanair signalled its own 
ambitions with an order from Boeing during the depths of the aviation crisis last December and is expecting delivery 
of more than 200 aircraft in coming years.
Airbus signs 255-jet deal with investor Franke Aerospace & defence
The Wizz order includes 27 A321XLR, longer-range aircraft capable of reaching the Middle East from western 
Europe, following Wizz's launch of an Abu Dhabibased joint venture this year.
Frontier will receive 91 aircraft while Latin American carriers Volaris and Jet- Smart will get 39 and 23, respectively.
Neither Airbus nor Indigo released details on pricing.
Airbus this weekend said it expected industry growth to be driven by airlines upgrading older, inefficient aircraft and 
the soaring demand for air cargo.
The European plane maker forecast demand for 39,000 new-build passenger and freighter aircraft, 15,250 of these 
as replacements for ageing planes, by 2040. The Airbus forecast is less than 1 per cent lower than its previous one 
issued in 2019 before the pandemic, underlining its optimism that the industry is back on track.
As the aviation industry struggles to find a quick way to decarbonise, newer aircraft offer a way to reduce emissions 
on a per passenger basis.
"The world is expecting more sustainable flying and this will be made possible in the short-term by the introduction 
of most modern aeroplanes," said Christian Scherer, chief commercial officer at Airbus. "As economies and air 
transport mature, we see demand increasingly driven by replacement rather than growth."
'This order reaffirms our airlines' commitment to consistent growth through the next decade'
Load-Date: November 14, 2021
End of Document
Airbus signs 255-jet deal with investor Franke Aerospace & defence
Airbus signs 255-jet deal with investor Franke; Aerospace & defence
Financial Times (London, England)
November 15, 2021 Monday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 8
Length: 459 words
Byline: PHILIP GEORGIADIS ;SYLVIA PFEIFER
Body
Airbus has secured a multi-billiondollar order for 255 single-aisle jets from veteran airline investor Bill Franke, in a 
deal that underlines the plane maker's forecast that the industry is poised to rebound strongly from the pandemic.
The deal sealed at the Dubai Airshow yesterday packages A321neo aircraft for delivery to a number of low-cost 
airlines backed by Franke's Indigo Partners, including Europe's Wizz Air and Frontier in the US.
The order is a sign that low-cost, shorthaul airlines are rebounding from the pandemic and comes as Franke is 
positioning his airlines to capitalise on the industry-wide disruption.
"This order reaffirms our portfolio airlines' commitment to consistent growth through the next decade," he said.
The US private equity executive is considered to be one of the most successful aviation investors in history.
He has bought stakes in a clutch of low-cost airlines and spurred growth by cutting costs and focusing on 
expanding markets such as eastern Europe.
Wizz Air, which will receive 102 aircraft, has promised to use the pandemic to expand across Europe and beyond 
and made an unsuccessful bid for British rival easyJet this year. Rival low-cost carrier Ryanair signalled its own 
ambitions with an order from Boeing during the depths of the aviation crisis last December and is expecting delivery 
of more than 200 aircraft in coming years.
Airbus signs 255-jet deal with investor Franke Aerospace & defence
The Wizz order includes 27 A321XLR, longer-range aircraft capable of reaching the Middle East from western 
Europe, following Wizz's launch of an Abu Dhabibased joint venture this year.
Frontier will receive 91 aircraft while Latin American carriers Volaris and Jet- Smart will get 39 and 23, respectively.
Neither Airbus nor Indigo released details on pricing.
Airbus this weekend said it expected industry growth to be driven by airlines upgrading older, inefficient aircraft and 
the soaring demand for air cargo.
The European plane maker forecast demand for 39,000 new-build passenger and freighter aircraft, 15,250 of these 
as replacements for ageing planes, by 2040. The Airbus forecast is less than 1 per cent lower than its previous one 
issued in 2019 before the pandemic, underlining its optimism that the industry is back on track.
As the aviation industry struggles to find a quick way to decarbonise, newer aircraft offer a way to reduce emissions 
on a per passenger basis.
"The world is expecting more sustainable flying and this will be made possible in the short-term by the introduction 
of most modern aeroplanes," said Christian Scherer, chief commercial officer at Airbus. "As economies and air 
transport mature, we see demand increasingly driven by replacement rather than growth."
'This order reaffirms our airlines' commitment to consistent growth through the next decade'
Load-Date: November 14, 2021
End of Document
Will fresh EU sanctions on Belarus make a difference?
Will fresh EU sanctions on Belarus make a difference?
Newstex Blogs 
Deutsche Welle World
November 15, 2021 Monday 10:25 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1238 words
Body
Nov 15, 2021( Deutsche Welle World: http://www.dw.de/top-stories/world/s-1429 Delivered by Newstex)  
 The EU is set to slap fresh sanctions on Minsk for alleged human trafficking, as a stand-off on the Poland-Belarus 
border continues. But will they make a difference?As people camp out on the border between Belarus and Poland 
in freezing conditions, Brussels is squaring up to Minsk and brandishing a new tool it hopes will help turn the crisis 
around: fresh sanctions. 
EU foreign affairs ministers met in Brussels on Monday to give their backing to new criteria for sanctions, giving the 
bloc legal power to target individuals and entities it holds responsible for trafficking migrants toward its borders in 
what it has labeled a "hybrid attack." 
What to expect from fresh sanctions 
Ministers gave political backing to an entire new sanctions package, though the names of those targeted are yet to 
be revealed. 
EU High Representative Josep Borrell said they would affect an "important number" of people, while German 
Foreign Minister Heiko Maas went further: "Everyone who participates in the human trafficking that Lukashenko is 
conducting will be sanctioned by the EU," Maas told reporters after the meeting. 
The foreign minister of Lithuania — one of the countries that share a border with Belarus — wants the bloc to target 
Minsk airport to make it a "no-fly zone." Certain airlines and travel agencies may also be in the EU's sights. 
Borrell said the list of sanctions targets should be finalized in the coming days, though two EU diplomats told DW it 
may take up to two weeks before they come into force. 
Which sanctions are already in place? 
There was a sense of deja-vu in Brussels on Monday. That's because the bloc has already imposed no fewer than 
four rounds of sanctions on Belarus since October 2020, after the EU accused Minsk of rigging the 2020 
presidential election and perpetrating human rights abuses against pro-democracy protesters and activists. 
Brussels has so far targeted 166 people and 15 entities with measures including asset freezes and travel bans. The 
last round of sanctions followed the alleged hijacking of a Ryanair plane in May 2021. 
Minsk has denied any wrongdoing and Alexander Lukashenko remains in power. 
 Are sanctions making a difference? 
For Francesco Giumeli, a professor in International Relations at the University of Groningen and an expert on EU 
sanctions, the measures have signaled solidarity within the bloc.  
"The very fact that the European Union can actually send a signal is already a sign of unity," he told DW. 
Will fresh EU sanctions on Belarus make a difference?
That positive outlook is echoed by one Polish official who spoke to DW during Monday's talks. "Dictatorships can 
easily survive sanctions because they put all the cost of those sanctions on their society. But now in Belarus, there 
is a moment where this is no longer possible," he said. 
"That's why I think they will be very helpful." 
But with Alexander Lukashenko still in power and Minsk denying any wrongdoing, critics, however, have been 
skeptical about whether the sanctions will prove effective. 
Earlier in June, former Foreign and Defense Minister of Lithuania Linas Linkevicius wrote in Carnegie Europe: "To 
answer the question directly and briefly, sanctions will not change Lukashenko himself, because he has already 
exceeded all possible limits and does not intend to return to the usual tactics of balancing between Russia and the 
West." 
In November he wrote on Twitter: "And all activities of #Belarus carried out under the supervision of #Russia which 
enjoys the role of 'back seat driver' in almost all crises it inspired. Nothing will be solved until #Russia is efficiently 
and tangibly targeted." 
 Flight bans 'more effective' than sanctions 
Over the last few days, top EU officials have traveled to countries including Iraq, Lebanon and the United Arab 
Emirates in a huge diplomatic effort to prevent what they see as Minsk luring people toward the EU. 
That approach has shown results. Turkish Airlines, Iraqi Airlines and Syrian carrier Cham Wings Airlines are among 
those placing restrictions on or suspending flights into Belarus. 
Meanwhile, the first repatriation flight carrying Iraqi citizens will leave Belarus on Thursday. 
"The decision taken by Turkish Airlines, for example, is to be welcomed because there were a lot of people 
transiting through these places on their way to Minsk," said Amanda Paul, a senior policy analyst at the European 
Policy Center, to DW. 
"I think this will have a bigger impact than the sanctions." 
Still, she fears that the situation on the ground may get worse before it can finally be resolved. 
'All sanctions have side effects' 
EU sanctions were more of a blunt instrument in the past, said Giumeli, but have gradually become more targeted 
over the years to mitigate their impact on ordinary people. 
Still, he said, "all sanctions have side effects." 
"The more you sanction airlines, for example, the more you isolate Belarusian society and that is a big trade-off," 
Giumeli said. "At some point, as in many conflictual situations, you might have to accept that you take these costs 
because the violation that you're trying to deal or address is higher than the cost." 
Will Russia also be sanctioned? 
Many in Brussels suspect the Kremlin is complicit in orchestrating the crisis on the Poland-Belarus border, though 
Moscow denies involvement. 
"I don't think Lukashenko could be doing what he's doing without strong support from Russia," EU foreign affairs 
chief Borrell told reporters Monday. 
So why can't the EU just slap sanctions on Moscow if it wants to strike at the alleged core of the problem? 
"You can't simply target whoever. You need to have reasons and you need proof," Giumeli said, adding that those 
targeted by sanctions can dispute the measures by suing the bloc. 
"It's very difficult to prove connections — it's very technical," Giumeli said. 
Paul says Europe shouldn't spend too much time pointing fingers at Moscow. 
"There's a tendency to give more focus to Russia's activity and the malign role that Russia plays in the region, 
rather than actually looking at concrete ways to actually end this crisis," she said. 
Edited by: Stephanie Burnett 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
Will fresh EU sanctions on Belarus make a difference?
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 15, 2021
End of Document
RIX Weekly Update
RIX Weekly Update
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
November 15, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 136 words
Body
This week Riga Airport connects passengers to 77 destinations
RIX Weekly Update! This week Riga Airport connects passengers to 77 destinations. Ryanair launches flights to 
Lviv as of 18 November and to Kyiv as of 19 November.
Flights are also operated by airBaltic, Aeroflot, Finnair, LOT Polish Airlines, Lufthansa, Norwegian, Turkish Airlines, 
Uzbekistan Airways and Wizz Air.
Regular charter flights are operated by Smartlynx Airlines, GetJet Airlines and Freebird Airlines.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Germany warns EU 'will tighten' sanctions on Belarus
Germany warns EU 'will tighten' sanctions on Belarus
Newstex Blogs 
Deutsche Welle World
November 15, 2021 Monday 10:25 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 974 words
Body
Nov 15, 2021( Deutsche Welle World: http://www.dw.de/top-stories/world/s-1429 Delivered by Newstex)  
 The EU is far from being at the end of its "sanctions spiral" against Belarus, says Germany's top diplomat Heiko 
Maas amid a standoff with Minsk over migrants.Germany's Foreign Minister Heiko Maas on Monday said the 
European Union will impose further sanctions to address decisions by Belarusian authorities.  
The bloc's foreign ministers are meeting Monday to discuss sanctions against Minsk over what the European Union 
says is a "hybrid attack" on its borders.  
The EU accuses Minsk of flying migrants, most of them from the Middle East, to the Belarus-Poland border, where 
they seek to enter the bloc's territory.  
What did Maas say?  
"We are nowhere near the end of the sanctions spiral," Maas said before the EU foreign ministers' meeting in 
Brussels. 
The top German diplomat warned airlines to stop transporting migrants to Minsk, or face being banned from landing 
in Europe. 
"What we see in Minsk, this inhumane system of using refugees as tools to exert pressure on the European Union, 
has not improved, but has gotten worse over the last days," he said. "We will further tighten sanctions." 
What are the proposed sanctions? 
Arriving at the meeting in Brussels, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell told reporters the ministers would approve 
further sanctions on Minsk on Monday. 
The EU foreign ministers are expected to adjust the types of sanctions that can be imposed to include airlines and 
travel agents allegedly involved in the standoff at the Belarusian borders with EU member states Poland, Latvia and 
Lithuania. 
The measures are set to involve asset freezes and travel bans. Those affected by the sanctions will be named in 
coming days.  
Borrell said he had told Belarus' foreign minister over the weekend that the situation on the border was 
unacceptable and that humanitarian help was needed. 
"What we have to provide is humanitarian assistance to these people and to prevent any kind of hybrid attack 
against European Union borders," Borrell said. 
What is the row with Belarus? 
Poland has said thousands of migrants are stranded on its border with Belarus and reported breaches of the barrier 
there. 
Germany warns EU 'will tighten' sanctions on Belarus
Western governments accuse the regime of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko of luring migrants to his 
country and sending them to cross into the EU in retaliation for earlier sanctions. 
The bloc imposed those sanctions in response to a Belarusian crackdown on dissent in the wake of last year's 
presidential election. 
The EU slapped Minsk with further sanctions earlier this year after Belarusian authorities forced a Ryanair flight to 
land in Minsk and arrested a dissident journalist who was on board.  
What does Belarus say? 
Minsk has repeatedly denied the accusations and said Warsaw was deliberately escalating tensions. 
Lukashenko had warned that Belarus could cut off natural gas flows from Russia to Europe if the EU imposed 
further sanctions. But the Kremlin distanced itself from that threat. 
On Monday, Belarus state news agency Belta quoted Lukashenko as saying that Minsk is trying to persuade 
migrants living in camps near its western border to return home. 
"Active work is underway in this area, to convince people: Please, return home. But nobody wants to go back," 
Lukashenko said, as quoted by Belta.  
Lukashenko also threatened to send the migrants via the Belarusian state-run airline Belavia to Germany if Poland 
does not provide a "humanitarian corridor."  
"We will send them to Munich by our own planes, if necessary," he said. 
Last week, Belavia announced that it would not allow Iraqi, Syrian and Yemeni nationals to fly from Turkey to 
Belarus, following a similar Turkish decision.  
What is the current situation at the Poland-Belarus border? 
Migrants are camped out in freezing cold weather and dire conditions. 
Polish authorities have reported at least nine deaths near the border with Belarus — including a 14-year-old Kurdish 
boy who died of hypothermia. "The death toll will be rising, as it's getting colder by the day," said DW correspondent 
Barbara Wesel in Poland. 
Poland put the number of people on the border at between 3,000 and 4,000, with more arriving every day.  
It has been difficult to verify reports of what exactly is happening at the border due to Poland's state of emergency, 
which bars most journalists and aid workers from accessing the area. 
While Poland heightened security and increased troops at the border, Belarus has conducted military drills with its 
key ally Russia near the border.  
fb/rt (Reuters, AFP, AP, dpa) 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 15, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1516 -180.00 1890 FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1516 -180.00 1890; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE 
SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 15, 2021 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 151 words
Body
Carnival 1516 -180.00 1890.2 1024 - -2.51 1264.4
CompassX 1543.5 -58.50 1721.63 18.06 - -66.82 3380.9
Dalata Hotel 359.00 -1.00 414.50 272.00 - -13.71 6.6 easyJet 598.00 -59.20 1095 550.20 - -1.97 12382.4
FirstGrp 101.20 -1.60 104.00 57.65 - 25.95 2524.1
Flutter Entertainment 12175 -495.00 19680.8 11700 - -305.90 444.8
Fuller A 650.00 -10.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.44 26.2
Go-Ahead 770.50 -45.50 1463 683.03 - -7.19 104.1
IntCon Htels Gp 5032 -304.00 46170 4368 - -4967.42 374.6
Intl Cons Air 164.32 -15.84 222.10 2.06 - -1.70 21374.0
MandarO $ 2.28 -0.02 2.36 1.65 - -7.42 37.7
Marstons 77.15 -4.75 105.50 58.50 - -1.17 1935.4
Natl Exp 238.40 -5.40 413.50 206.70 - -5.14 1035.6
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1516 -180.00 1890 FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
PPHE Htl 1373 41.00 1800 1175 - -6.10 1.3
Restaurt 79.50 -5.70 140.00 52.56 - 8.36 1112.0
Ryanair Holdings PLC 309.00 4.00 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.37 375.3
TUI 225.90 -24.00 580.20 210.70 - -1.53 3295.0
Whitbrd 3200 -226.00 3949.01 36.28 - -6.64 465.
Load-Date: November 14, 2021
End of Document
Will fresh EU sanctions on Belarus make a difference?
Will fresh EU sanctions on Belarus make a difference?
Newstex Blogs 
Deutsche Welle Europe
November 15, 2021 Monday 9:20 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1238 words
Body
Nov 15, 2021( Deutsche Welle Europe: http://www.dw.de/top-stories/europe/s-1433 Delivered by Newstex)  
 The EU is set to slap fresh sanctions on Minsk for alleged human trafficking, as a stand-off on the Poland-Belarus 
border continues. But will they make a difference?As people camp out on the border between Belarus and Poland 
in freezing conditions, Brussels is squaring up to Minsk and brandishing a new tool it hopes will help turn the crisis 
around: fresh sanctions. 
EU foreign affairs ministers met in Brussels on Monday to give their backing to new criteria for sanctions, giving the 
bloc legal power to target individuals and entities it holds responsible for trafficking migrants toward its borders in 
what it has labeled a "hybrid attack." 
What to expect from fresh sanctions 
Ministers gave political backing to an entire new sanctions package, though the names of those targeted are yet to 
be revealed. 
EU High Representative Josep Borrell said they would affect an "important number" of people, while German 
Foreign Minister Heiko Maas went further: "Everyone who participates in the human trafficking that Lukashenko is 
conducting will be sanctioned by the EU," Maas told reporters after the meeting. 
The foreign minister of Lithuania — one of the countries that share a border with Belarus — wants the bloc to target 
Minsk airport to make it a "no-fly zone." Certain airlines and travel agencies may also be in the EU's sights. 
Borrell said the list of sanctions targets should be finalized in the coming days, though two EU diplomats told DW it 
may take up to two weeks before they come into force. 
Which sanctions are already in place? 
There was a sense of deja-vu in Brussels on Monday. That's because the bloc has already imposed no fewer than 
four rounds of sanctions on Belarus since October 2020, after the EU accused Minsk of rigging the 2020 
presidential election and perpetrating human rights abuses against pro-democracy protesters and activists. 
Brussels has so far targeted 166 people and 15 entities with measures including asset freezes and travel bans. The 
last round of sanctions followed the alleged hijacking of a Ryanair plane in May 2021. 
Minsk has denied any wrongdoing and Alexander Lukashenko remains in power. 
 Are sanctions making a difference? 
For Francesco Giumeli, a professor in International Relations at the University of Groningen and an expert on EU 
sanctions, the measures have signaled solidarity within the bloc.  
"The very fact that the European Union can actually send a signal is already a sign of unity," he told DW. 
Will fresh EU sanctions on Belarus make a difference?
That positive outlook is echoed by one Polish official who spoke to DW during Monday's talks. "Dictatorships can 
easily survive sanctions because they put all the cost of those sanctions on their society. But now in Belarus, there 
is a moment where this is no longer possible," he said. 
"That's why I think they will be very helpful." 
But with Alexander Lukashenko still in power and Minsk denying any wrongdoing, critics, however, have been 
skeptical about whether the sanctions will prove effective. 
Earlier in June, former Foreign and Defense Minister of Lithuania Linas Linkevicius wrote in Carnegie Europe: "To 
answer the question directly and briefly, sanctions will not change Lukashenko himself, because he has already 
exceeded all possible limits and does not intend to return to the usual tactics of balancing between Russia and the 
West." 
In November he wrote on Twitter: "And all activities of #Belarus carried out under the supervision of #Russia which 
enjoys the role of 'back seat driver' in almost all crises it inspired. Nothing will be solved until #Russia is efficiently 
and tangibly targeted." 
 Flight bans 'more effective' than sanctions 
Over the last few days, top EU officials have traveled to countries including Iraq, Lebanon and the United Arab 
Emirates in a huge diplomatic effort to prevent what they see as Minsk luring people toward the EU. 
That approach has shown results. Turkish Airlines, Iraqi Airlines and Syrian carrier Cham Wings Airlines are among 
those placing restrictions on or suspending flights into Belarus. 
Meanwhile, the first repatriation flight carrying Iraqi citizens will leave Belarus on Thursday. 
"The decision taken by Turkish Airlines, for example, is to be welcomed because there were a lot of people 
transiting through these places on their way to Minsk," said Amanda Paul, a senior policy analyst at the European 
Policy Center, to DW. 
"I think this will have a bigger impact than the sanctions." 
Still, she fears that the situation on the ground may get worse before it can finally be resolved. 
'All sanctions have side effects' 
EU sanctions were more of a blunt instrument in the past, said Giumeli, but have gradually become more targeted 
over the years to mitigate their impact on ordinary people. 
Still, he said, "all sanctions have side effects." 
"The more you sanction airlines, for example, the more you isolate Belarusian society and that is a big trade-off," 
Giumeli said. "At some point, as in many conflictual situations, you might have to accept that you take these costs 
because the violation that you're trying to deal or address is higher than the cost." 
Will Russia also be sanctioned? 
Many in Brussels suspect the Kremlin is complicit in orchestrating the crisis on the Poland-Belarus border, though 
Moscow denies involvement. 
"I don't think Lukashenko could be doing what he's doing without strong support from Russia," EU foreign affairs 
chief Borrell told reporters Monday. 
So why can't the EU just slap sanctions on Moscow if it wants to strike at the alleged core of the problem? 
"You can't simply target whoever. You need to have reasons and you need proof," Giumeli said, adding that those 
targeted by sanctions can dispute the measures by suing the bloc. 
"It's very difficult to prove connections — it's very technical," Giumeli said. 
Paul says Europe shouldn't spend too much time pointing fingers at Moscow. 
"There's a tendency to give more focus to Russia's activity and the malign role that Russia plays in the region, 
rather than actually looking at concrete ways to actually end this crisis," she said. 
Edited by: Stephanie Burnett 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
Will fresh EU sanctions on Belarus make a difference?
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 15, 2021
End of Document
Germany warns EU 'will tighten' sanctions on Belarus
Germany warns EU 'will tighten' sanctions on Belarus
Newstex Blogs 
Deutsche Welle Europe
November 15, 2021 Monday 10:20 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 974 words
Body
Nov 15, 2021( Deutsche Welle Europe: http://www.dw.de/top-stories/europe/s-1433 Delivered by Newstex)  
 The EU is far from being at the end of its "sanctions spiral" against Belarus, says Germany's top diplomat Heiko 
Maas amid a standoff with Minsk over migrants.Germany's Foreign Minister Heiko Maas on Monday said the 
European Union will impose further sanctions to address decisions by Belarusian authorities.  
The bloc's foreign ministers are meeting Monday to discuss sanctions against Minsk over what the European Union 
says is a "hybrid attack" on its borders.  
The EU accuses Minsk of flying migrants, most of them from the Middle East, to the Belarus-Poland border, where 
they seek to enter the bloc's territory.  
What did Maas say?  
"We are nowhere near the end of the sanctions spiral," Maas said before the EU foreign ministers' meeting in 
Brussels. 
The top German diplomat warned airlines to stop transporting migrants to Minsk, or face being banned from landing 
in Europe. 
"What we see in Minsk, this inhumane system of using refugees as tools to exert pressure on the European Union, 
has not improved, but has gotten worse over the last days," he said. "We will further tighten sanctions." 
What are the proposed sanctions? 
Arriving at the meeting in Brussels, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell told reporters the ministers would approve 
further sanctions on Minsk on Monday. 
The EU foreign ministers are expected to adjust the types of sanctions that can be imposed to include airlines and 
travel agents allegedly involved in the standoff at the Belarusian borders with EU member states Poland, Latvia and 
Lithuania. 
The measures are set to involve asset freezes and travel bans. Those affected by the sanctions will be named in 
coming days.  
Borrell said he had told Belarus' foreign minister over the weekend that the situation on the border was 
unacceptable and that humanitarian help was needed. 
"What we have to provide is humanitarian assistance to these people and to prevent any kind of hybrid attack 
against European Union borders," Borrell said. 
What is the row with Belarus? 
Poland has said thousands of migrants are stranded on its border with Belarus and reported breaches of the barrier 
there. 
Germany warns EU 'will tighten' sanctions on Belarus
Western governments accuse the regime of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko of luring migrants to his 
country and sending them to cross into the EU in retaliation for earlier sanctions. 
The bloc imposed those sanctions in response to a Belarusian crackdown on dissent in the wake of last year's 
presidential election. 
The EU slapped Minsk with further sanctions earlier this year after Belarusian authorities forced a Ryanair flight to 
land in Minsk and arrested a dissident journalist who was on board.  
What does Belarus say? 
Minsk has repeatedly denied the accusations and said Warsaw was deliberately escalating tensions. 
Lukashenko had warned that Belarus could cut off natural gas flows from Russia to Europe if the EU imposed 
further sanctions. But the Kremlin distanced itself from that threat. 
On Monday, Belarus state news agency Belta quoted Lukashenko as saying that Minsk is trying to persuade 
migrants living in camps near its western border to return home. 
"Active work is underway in this area, to convince people: Please, return home. But nobody wants to go back," 
Lukashenko said, as quoted by Belta.  
Lukashenko also threatened to send the migrants via the Belarusian state-run airline Belavia to Germany if Poland 
does not provide a "humanitarian corridor."  
"We will send them to Munich by our own planes, if necessary," he said. 
Last week, Belavia announced that it would not allow Iraqi, Syrian and Yemeni nationals to fly from Turkey to 
Belarus, following a similar Turkish decision.  
What is the current situation at the Poland-Belarus border? 
Migrants are camped out in freezing cold weather and dire conditions. 
Polish authorities have reported at least nine deaths near the border with Belarus — including a 14-year-old Kurdish 
boy who died of hypothermia. "The death toll will be rising, as it's getting colder by the day," said DW correspondent 
Barbara Wesel in Poland. 
Poland put the number of people on the border at between 3,000 and 4,000, with more arriving every day.  
It has been difficult to verify reports of what exactly is happening at the border due to Poland's state of emergency, 
which bars most journalists and aid workers from accessing the area. 
While Poland heightened security and increased troops at the border, Belarus has conducted military drills with its 
key ally Russia near the border.  
fb/rt (Reuters, AFP, AP, dpa) 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 15, 2021
End of Document
Y Intercept Hong Kong Ltd Invests $542,000 in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Y Intercept Hong Kong Ltd Invests $542,000 in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
November 14, 2021 Sunday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 630 words
Body
Ryanair Y Intercept Hong Kong Ltd acquired a new position in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) 
in the 2nd quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. The firm acquired 5,011 shares of the transportation company's stock, valued at approximately 
$542,000.  
Other hedge funds also recently made changes to their positions in the company. Profund Advisors LLC lifted its 
holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 2.7% in the 2nd quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $486,000 after purchasing an additional 117 shares in the last quarter.  
Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC lifted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 1.2% in the 
2nd quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $1,318,000 after purchasing an additional 144 shares in the last quarter.  
Atria Investments LLC lifted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 1.0% in the 2nd quarter. Atria Investments LLC 
now owns 14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,595,000 after purchasing an additional 
148 shares in the last quarter.  Private Advisor Group LLC lifted its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 6.9% in the 
2nd quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC now owns 2,535 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$274,000 after purchasing an additional 163 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, Personal CFO Solutions LLC lifted 
its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 10.8% in the 2nd quarter. Personal CFO Solutions LLC now owns 2,159 shares 
of the transportation company's stock worth $234,000 after purchasing an additional 210 shares in the last quarter. 
43.91% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
A number of equities analysts recently issued reports on the company. Redburn Partners upgraded Ryanair from a 
"neutral" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 target price on the stock in a report on Tuesday, July 27th. Peel 
Hunt upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Friday, September 17th. 
Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  restated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, 
September 17th. Barclays  restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, 
November 2nd. Finally, Credit Suisse Group  restated an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research 
note on Friday, September 17th. Four research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have 
assigned  a buy rating to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair  has an average 
rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of $122.48. 
Y Intercept Hong Kong Ltd Invests $542,000 in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
NASDAQ RYAAY  opened at $114.12 on Friday. The stock has a market capitalization of $25.76 billion, a price-to-
earnings ratio of -32.42 and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $94.68 and a one year high 
of $127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. The 
business's fifty day moving average is $113.36 and its 200-day moving average is $111.69.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: Marijuana Stocks Future Looks Bright  
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY?Visit HoldingsChannel.com  to get the latest 13F 
filings and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
Load-Date: November 14, 2021
End of Document
Y Intercept Hong Kong Ltd Invests $542,000 in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Y Intercept Hong Kong Ltd Invests $542,000 in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
November 14, 2021 Sunday 3:20 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 887 words
Body
Nov 14, 2021( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Y Intercept Hong Kong Ltd acquired a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) in the 
second quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm 
acquired 5,011 shares of the transportation company's stock, valued at approximately $542,000.  
Several other large investors have also added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. Baillie Gifford & Co. lifted its 
holdings in Ryanair by 1.3% during the 2nd quarter. Baillie Gifford & Co. now owns 10,513,341 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $1,137,649,000 after purchasing an additional 140,012 shares during the 
last quarter. Capital International Investors lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 3.1% during the 2nd quarter. Capital 
International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,067,172,000 
after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares during the last quarter. FMR LLC lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 
1.4% during the 2nd quarter. FMR LLC now owns 6,298,681 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$681,580,000 after purchasing an additional 87,015 shares during the last quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC 
lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 6.3% during the 2nd quarter. Lazard Asset Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 
shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $541,264,000 after purchasing an additional 296,366 shares 
during the last quarter. Finally, William Blair Investment Management LLC increased its position in Ryanair by 
14.3% in the 2nd quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $243,862,000 after acquiring an additional 281,774 shares in the last 
quarter. 43.91% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
Shares of RYAAY[1] opened at $114.12 on Friday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 
1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. Ryanair Holdings plc has a twelve month low of $94.68 and a twelve month high of 
$127.25. The firm's 50 day moving average price is $113.36 and its two-hundred day moving average price is 
$111.69. The firm has a market cap of $25.76 billion, a P/E ratio of -32.42 and a beta of 1.56.  
Several research firms have weighed in on RYAAY. Barclays restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair 
in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Sanford C. Bernstein cut shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" 
rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report on Monday, November 8th. Raymond James lifted their price 
target on shares of Ryanair from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the stock an "outperform" rating in a research report 
on Thursday, October 7th. Peel Hunt upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research 
report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co. reiterated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair 
Y Intercept Hong Kong Ltd Invests $542,000 in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Four equities research analysts have rated the stock with a hold 
rating and thirteen have issued a buy rating to the stock. According to data from MarketBeat, the stock currently has 
an average rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.48. 
Ryanair Company Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: Quantitative Easing[2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-
quantitative-easing/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 14, 2021
End of Document
Sunday papers: India and China dilute pledge to phase out coal
Sunday papers: India and China dilute pledge to phase out coal
Citywire
November 14, 2021 Sunday 5:12 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 Citywire Financial Publishers All Rights Reserved
Length: 434 words
Byline: Himanshu Singh
Highlight: And Heathrow ‘greed’ under attack from rivals British Airways and Virgin Atlantic.
Body
Top stories
•
The Sunday Times: A historic United Nations deal to end the use of coal power was watered down last 
night after a dramatic last-minute intervention from China and India.
•
The Sunday Telegraph: Richard Branson and the former British Airways chief Willie Walsh have set aside 
their long-running feud to mount a joint attack on the owners of Heathrow, accusing the airport and its 
shareholders of greed that is damaging the economy.
•
The Sunday Times: Ministers are poised to pull the trigger on a full-blown investigation into the sale of 
ARM, Britain’s biggest technology company, in a move that threatens to scupper the controversial $40bn 
deal.
Business and economics
•
The Sunday Times: Britain’s biggest ports operator Associated British Ports’ chief executive Henrik 
Pedersen has warned that supply-chain disruption is likely to persist until 2023 as the crisis begins to derail 
the economic recovery.
•
Mail on Sunday: Royal Mail is poised to expand its Sunday parcel delivery service as it posts a surge in 
profits this week.
•
The Sunday Times: Prudential has started a process to find a new chief executive to replace Mike Wells 
after his transformation of the insurance giant.
•
The Observer: China has been pushing US executives, companies and business groups in recent weeks to 
fight against China-related bills in the US Congress.
•
The Sunday Telegraph: Patrick Drahi, the French billionaire targeting BT for a potential takeover, has 
mortgaged the historic London home of Sotheby’s and borrowed heavily against the proceeds via an 
international chain of companies ending in Luxembourg.
Share tips, comment and bids
•
Mail on Sunday (Midas share tips): BUY OSB Group.
Sunday papers: India and China dilute pledge to phase out coal
•
Mail on Sunday (Midas share tips update): PICK up a few shares of Marks & Spencer.
•
Mail on Sunday: Ryanair chief executive Michael O'Leary has pocketed a £20m windfall after cashing in 
Ryanair shares as the budget airline's bookings take off.
•
The Sunday Telegraph: Lord Cruddas is in talks over carving up City bookmaker CMC Markets, weeks 
after a profit warning sent shares plunging more than 25%.
•
The Sunday Times: LV boss Mark Hartigan admitted that he stands to benefit from a private equity-style 
pay deal if he stays on after the £530m takeover of the insurer by Bain Capital, as rival bidder Royal 
London staged a dramatic last-minute intervention.
•
The Sunday Times (Comment): Bungling LV= must make a better case for Bain takeover.
•
The Sunday Telegraph (Comment): Dire Brexit warnings for the City were bogus.
•
The Sunday Telegraph (Comment): Bank of England tried to appease Extinction Rebellion protesters, 
emails reveal.
Load-Date: November 14, 2021
End of Document
Y Intercept Hong Kong Ltd Invests $542,000 in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Y Intercept Hong Kong Ltd Invests $542,000 in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Ticker Report
November 14, 2021 Sunday 3:07 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 877 words
Body
Nov 14, 2021( Ticker Report: http://www.tickerreport.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Y Intercept Hong Kong Ltd acquired a new position in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) in the 
2nd quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The firm acquired 5,011 shares of the transportation company's stock, valued at approximately $542,000.  
Other hedge funds also recently made changes to their positions in the company. Profund Advisors LLC lifted its 
holdings in shares of Ryanair by 2.7% in the 2nd quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $486,000 after purchasing an additional 117 shares in the last quarter. 
Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC lifted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 1.2% in the 
2nd quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $1,318,000 after purchasing an additional 144 shares in the last quarter. Atria 
Investments LLC lifted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 1.0% in the 2nd quarter. Atria Investments LLC now 
owns 14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,595,000 after purchasing an additional 148 
shares in the last quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC lifted its holdings in shares of Ryanair by 6.9% in the 2nd 
quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC now owns 2,535 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $274,000 
after purchasing an additional 163 shares in the last quarter. Finally, Personal CFO Solutions LLC lifted its holdings 
in shares of Ryanair by 10.8% in the 2nd quarter. Personal CFO Solutions LLC now owns 2,159 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $234,000 after purchasing an additional 210 shares in the last quarter. 
43.91% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
A number of equities analysts recently issued reports on the company. Redburn Partners upgraded Ryanair from a 
"neutral" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 target price on the stock in a report on Tuesday, July 27th. Peel 
Hunt upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a research note on Friday, September 17th. 
Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft restated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, 
September 17th. Barclays restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, 
November 2nd. Finally, Credit Suisse Group restated an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research 
note on Friday, September 17th. Four research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have 
assigned a buy rating to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, Ryanair has an average 
rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of $122.48. 
Y Intercept Hong Kong Ltd Invests $542,000 in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
NASDAQ RYAAY[1] opened at $114.12 on Friday. The stock has a market capitalization of $25.76 billion, a price-
to-earnings ratio of -32.42 and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair Holdings plc has a one year low of $94.68 and a one year 
high of $127.25. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. 
The business's fifty day moving average is $113.36 and its 200-day moving average is $111.69.  
About Ryanair 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: Marijuana Stocks Future Looks Bright [2] 
Want to see what other hedge funds are holding RYAAY? Visit HoldingsChannel.com[3] to get the latest 13F filings 
and insider trades for Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY). 
 [ 1]: https://www.pricetargets.com/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/market-data/marijuana-
stocks/ [ 3]: https://www.holdingschannel.com/hedge-funds/holding-ryaay/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 14, 2021
End of Document
Morgan Stanley Sells 12,273 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Morgan Stanley Sells 12,273 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
November 13, 2021 Saturday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 537 words
Body
Ryanair Morgan Stanley lessened its holdings in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 3.9% in the 
second quarter, according to the company in its most recent disclosure with the Securities & Exchange 
Commission. The institutional investor  owned 303,237 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 
12,273 shares during the quarter. Morgan Stanley owned approximately 0.13% of Ryanair worth $32,812,000 as of 
its most recent filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission.  
Several other institutional investors have also made changes to their positions in RYAAY. Amundi bought a new 
position in  Ryanair in the second quarter worth $1,026,000.  State Street Corp raised its holdings in  Ryanair by 
31.1% in the second quarter. State Street Corp now owns 155,365 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $16,812,000 after purchasing an additional 36,818 shares in the last quarter.  Freestone Capital Holdings 
LLC raised its holdings in  Ryanair by 1.4% in the second quarter. Freestone Capital Holdings LLC now owns 
27,294 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $2,953,000 after purchasing an additional 381 shares in 
the last quarter.  Amia Capital LLP bought a new position in  Ryanair in the second quarter worth $394,000.  Finally, 
Macquarie Group Ltd. bought a new position in  Ryanair in the second quarter worth $8,451,000. Institutional 
investors own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
Several equities analysts have recently weighed in on RYAAY shares. Redburn Partners upgraded Ryanair from a 
"neutral" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 price target for the company in a report on Tuesday, July 27th. 
Morgan Stanley  restated an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. 
Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a report on 
Monday, November 8th. Peel Hunt upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Friday, 
September 17th. Finally, Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  restated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report 
on Friday, September 17th. Four research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a 
buy rating to the stock. Based on data from MarketBeat, the company presently has a consensus rating of "Buy" 
and an average price target of $122.48. 
NASDAQ:RYAAY  opened at $114.12 on Friday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 
1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $94.68 and a 1 year high of $127.25. The 
stock's 50 day simple moving average is $113.36 and its two-hundred day simple moving average is $111.71. The 
company has a market cap of $25.76 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -32.42 and a beta of 1.56.  
Ryanair Profile
Morgan Stanley Sells 12,273 Shares of Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Featured Article: Why is a lock-up period needed for an IPO? 
Load-Date: November 13, 2021
End of Document
Putin Says any disruption in gas supplies to EU would threaten Moscow-Minsk relations
Putin Says any disruption in gas supplies to EU would threaten Moscow-
Minsk relations
Newstex Blogs 
Digital Journal
November 13, 2021 Saturday 8:00 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 969 words
Byline: Karen Graham
Body
Nov 13, 2021( Digital Journal: http://www.digitaljournal.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 President Vladimir Putin said on Saturday that Belarus had not consulted him before raising the possibility of 
cutting Russian natural gas flows to Europe, adding that such a move would risk harming ties between Minsk and 
its key ally Moscow. 
And Bloomberg[1] notes that the pipelines crossing Belarus are owned by Russia's Gazprom PJSC, which lessens 
the risk of any shutdowns. 
'He can, probably, though there's nothing good in that and I will, of course, talk to him about that, if it wasn't just hot 
air,' Putin said Saturday in an interview on Russian television. 
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko threatened on Thursday to retaliate against any new European Union 
sanctions against Minsk over amigrant standoff[2]on the Belarus-EU border, suggestinghe would cut off the flow of 
natural gas. 
'We heat Europe, and they are still threatening us that they'll shut the borders,' the strongman leader, who has been 
in power since 1994, reportedly told cabinet ministers, reports CNBC.[3] 
'And what if we cut off [the transit of] natural gas to them? So I would recommend that the leadership of Poland, 
Lithuanian and other brainless people to think before they speak.' 
 Russian President Vladimir Putin and Belarus counterpart Alexander Lukashenko, shown here in Sochi earlier this 
year, will meet for the first time since Belarus forced a Ryanair jet to land in Minsk and arrested an opposition 
activist onboard. - Copyright Royal Thai Consulate-General in LA/AFP Handout 
 Political genius destabilizing European Union 
Putin Says any disruption in gas supplies to EU would threaten Moscow-Minsk relations
Russia and Belarus have been allies for years, with Moscow helping the country withcash, cheap energy supplies, 
and military assistance. However, Lukashenko's comments come at a sensitive time for Russia's energy exports to 
Europe. 
Gas prices in Europe and energy bills are already on the rise as the recovery from the pandemic has led to a spike 
in demand, leaving customers from Asia to Europe to fight for supplies. 
On Friday, the European Commission said if natural gas supplies were to be cut off, it would further harm gas 
suppliers.  
And, Saturday, during his televised interview, Putin said that if Belarus did cut off supplies, it would 'cause great 
damage' to the European energy sector 'and would not help in developing our relations with Belarus as a transit 
country.' 
 https://www.addtoany.com/add_to/facebook?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworld%2Fputin-
says-any-disruption-in-gas-supplies-to-eu-would-threaten-moscow-minsk-
relations%2Farticle&linkname=Putin%20Says%20any%20disruption%20in%20gas%20supplies%20to%20EU%20
would%20threaten%20Moscow-
Minsk%20relationshttps://www.addtoany.com/add_to/twitter?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2F
world%2Fputin-says-any-disruption-in-gas-supplies-to-eu-would-threaten-moscow-minsk-
relations%2Farticle&linkname=Putin%20Says%20any%20disruption%20in%20gas%20supplies%20to%20EU%20
would%20threaten%20Moscow-
Minsk%20relationshttps://www.addtoany.com/add_to/linkedin?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2
Fworld%2Fputin-says-any-disruption-in-gas-supplies-to-eu-would-threaten-moscow-minsk-
relations%2Farticle&linkname=Putin%20Says%20any%20disruption%20in%20gas%20supplies%20to%20EU%20
would%20threaten%20Moscow-
Minsk%20relationshttps://www.addtoany.com/add_to/email?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2F
world%2Fputin-says-any-disruption-in-gas-supplies-to-eu-would-threaten-moscow-minsk-
relations%2Farticle&linkname=Putin%20Says%20any%20disruption%20in%20gas%20supplies%20to%20EU%20
would%20threaten%20Moscow-
Minsk%20relationshttps://www.addtoany.com/share#url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworld%2Fp
utin-says-any-disruption-in-gas-supplies-to-eu-would-threaten-moscow-minsk-
relations%2Farticle&title=Putin%20Says%20any%20disruption%20in%20gas%20supplies%20to%20EU%20would
%20threaten%20Moscow-Minsk%20relations 
The post Putin Says any disruption in gas supplies to EU would threaten Moscow-Minsk relations[4] appeared first 
on Digital Journal[5]. 
 [ 1]: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/putin-says-nothing-good-belarus-090822939.html?fr=sycsrp_catchall [ 2]: 
https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/poland-reports-violent-clashes-overnight-migrants-attempt-new-border-
breach-2021-11-11 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.cnbc.com/2021/11/12/belarus-threatens-to-choke-off-eu-gas-supply-over-
border-dispute.html [ 4]: https://www.digitaljournal.com/world/putin-says-any-disruption-in-gas-supplies-to-eu-would-
threaten-moscow-minsk-relations/article [ 5]: https://www.digitaljournal.com 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
Putin Says any disruption in gas supplies to EU would threaten Moscow-Minsk relations
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 13, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 13, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 25
Length: 150 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1516 -61.60 1890.2 1024 - -2.51 1194.8 CompassX 1543.5 -33.00 1721.63 18.06 - -66.82 
2932.6 Dalata Hote359.00 -0.75 414.50 272.00 - -13.71 5.0 easyJet 598.00 -16.20 1095 550.20 - -1.97 11929.2 
FirstGrp 101.20 -0.60 104.00 57.04 - 25.95 2184.7 Flutter Ent12175 5.00 19680.8 11700 - -305.90 400.9 Fuller A 
650.00 -20.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.44 26.2 Go-Ahead 770.50 -9.50 1463 683.03 - -7.19 103.2 IntCon Htel5032 -
70.00 46170 4368 - -4967.42 292.6 Intl Cons A164.32 -4.84 222.10 2.06 - -1.70 18095.6 MandarO $ 2.28 -0.04 
2.36 1.65 - -7.42 37.7 Marstons 77.15 -1.85 105.50 58.50 - -1.17 1812.1 Natl Exp 238.40 2.80 413.50 203.20 - -
5.14 921.4 PPHE Htl 1373 25.00 1800 1175 - -6.10 1.3 Restaurt 79.50 -0.60 140.00 52.56 - 8.36 1077.7 Ryanair 
Hol309.00 0.50 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.37 146.5 TUI 225.90 -7.70 580.20 210.70 - -1.53 2431.2 Whitbrd 3200 -
76.00 3949.01 36.28 - -6.64 416.3
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 13, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, European Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 151 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1516 -61.60 1890.2 1024 - -2.51 1194.8 CompassX 1543.5 -33.00 1721.63 18.06 - -66.82 
2932.6 Dalata Hote 359.00 -0.75 414.50 272.00 - -13.71 5.0 easyJet 598.00 -16.20 1095 550.20 - -1.97 11929.2 
FirstGrp 101.20 -0.60 104.00 57.04 - 25.95 2184.7 Flutter Ent 12175 5.00 19680.8 11700 - -305.90 400.9 Fuller A 
650.00 -20.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.44 26.2 Go-Ahead 770.50 -9.50 1463 683.03 - -7.19 103.2 IntCon Htel 5032 -
70.00 46170 4368 - -4967.42 292.6 Intl Cons A 164.32 -4.84 222.10 2.06 - -1.70 18095.6 MandarO $ 2.28 -0.04 
2.36 1.65 - -7.42 37.7 Marstons 77.15 -1.85 105.50 58.50 - -1.17 1812.1 Natl Exp 238.40 2.80 413.50 203.20 - -
5.14 921.4 PPHE Htl 1373 25.00 1800 1175 - -6.10 1.3 Restaurt 79.50 -0.60 140.00 52.56 - 8.36 1077.7 Ryanair 
Hol 309.00 0.50 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.37 146.5 TUI 225.90 -7.70 580.20 210.70 - -1.53 2431.2 Whitbrd 3200 -
76.00 3949.01 36.28 - -6.64 416.3
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 13, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, USA Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 151 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1516 -61.60 1890.2 1024 - -2.51 1194.8 CompassX 1543.5 -33.00 1721.63 18.06 - -66.82 
2932.6 Dalata Hote 359.00 -0.75 414.50 272.00 - -13.71 5.0 easyJet 598.00 -16.20 1095 550.20 - -1.97 11929.2 
FirstGrp 101.20 -0.60 104.00 57.04 - 25.95 2184.7 Flutter Ent 12175 5.00 19680.8 11700 - -305.90 400.9 Fuller A 
650.00 -20.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.44 26.2 Go-Ahead 770.50 -9.50 1463 683.03 - -7.19 103.2 IntCon Htel 5032 -
70.00 46170 4368 - -4967.42 292.6 Intl Cons A 164.32 -4.84 222.10 2.06 - -1.70 18095.6 MandarO $ 2.28 -0.04 
2.36 1.65 - -7.42 37.7 Marstons 77.15 -1.85 105.50 58.50 - -1.17 1812.1 Natl Exp 238.40 2.80 413.50 203.20 - -
5.14 921.4 PPHE Htl 1373 25.00 1800 1175 - -6.10 1.3 Restaurt 79.50 -0.60 140.00 52.56 - 8.36 1077.7 Ryanair 
Hol 309.00 0.50 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.37 146.5 TUI 225.90 -7.70 580.20 210.70 - -1.53 2431.2 Whitbrd 3200 -
76.00 3949.01 36.28 - -6.64 416.3
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 13, 2021 Saturday
Edition 1, Asian Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 17
Length: 151 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1516 -61.60 1890.2 1024 - -2.51 1194.8 CompassX 1543.5 -33.00 1721.63 18.06 - -66.82 
2932.6 Dalata Hote 359.00 -0.75 414.50 272.00 - -13.71 5.0 easyJet 598.00 -16.20 1095 550.20 - -1.97 11929.2 
FirstGrp 101.20 -0.60 104.00 57.04 - 25.95 2184.7 Flutter Ent 12175 5.00 19680.8 11700 - -305.90 400.9 Fuller A 
650.00 -20.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.44 26.2 Go-Ahead 770.50 -9.50 1463 683.03 - -7.19 103.2 IntCon Htel 5032 -
70.00 46170 4368 - -4967.42 292.6 Intl Cons A 164.32 -4.84 222.10 2.06 - -1.70 18095.6 MandarO $ 2.28 -0.04 
2.36 1.65 - -7.42 37.7 Marstons 77.15 -1.85 105.50 58.50 - -1.17 1812.1 Natl Exp 238.40 2.80 413.50 203.20 - -
5.14 921.4 PPHE Htl 1373 25.00 1800 1175 - -6.10 1.3 Restaurt 79.50 -0.60 140.00 52.56 - 8.36 1077.7 Ryanair 
Hol 309.00 0.50 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.37 146.5 TUI 225.90 -7.70 580.20 210.70 - -1.53 2431.2 Whitbrd 3200 -
76.00 3949.01 36.28 - -6.64 416.3
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
Weekly Research Analysts' Ratings Updates for Ryanair ( RYAAY )
Weekly Research Analysts' Ratings Updates for Ryanair (RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
November 12, 2021 Friday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 531 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair (NASDAQ: RYAAY) recently received a number of ratings updates from brokerages and research 
firms: 
•
11/8/2021 - Ryanair  was downgraded by analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein from an "outperform" rating to a 
"market perform" rating.
•
11/2/2021 - Ryanair  had its "overweight" rating reaffirmed by analysts at Barclays PLC.
•
11/2/2021 - Ryanair  had its "overweight" rating reaffirmed by analysts at Morgan Stanley.
•
10/25/2021 - Ryanair  had its "neutral" rating reaffirmed by analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co..
•
10/7/2021 - Ryanair had its price target raised by analysts at Raymond James from $135.00 to $140.00. 
They now have an "outperform" rating on the stock.
•
9/28/2021 - Ryanair  had its "neutral" rating reaffirmed by analysts at UBS Group AG.
•
9/17/2021 - Ryanair  had its "overweight" rating reaffirmed by analysts at Barclays PLC.
•
9/17/2021 - Ryanair  had its "outperform" rating reaffirmed by analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG.
•
9/17/2021 - Ryanair  had its "buy" rating reaffirmed by analysts at Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft.
•
9/17/2021 - Ryanair  was upgraded by analysts at Peel Hunt from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating.
Ryanair stock  opened at $117.21 on Friday. The stock has a market capitalization of $26.46 billion, a PE ratio of -
33.30 and a beta of 1.56. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of $127.25. The 
business has a 50 day simple moving average of $113.24 and a 200-day simple moving average of $111.70. The 
company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34.  
Several institutional investors have recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. Geode Capital Management LLC 
increased its position in shares of  Ryanair by 3.2% during the first quarter. Geode Capital Management LLC now 
owns 95,479 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $10,980,000 after purchasing an additional 2,966 
shares in the last quarter.  Barclays PLC purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the first quarter worth 
approximately $355,000.  Ameriprise Financial Inc. increased its position in shares of  Ryanair by 19.7% during the 
first quarter. Ameriprise Financial Inc. now owns 580,141 shares of the transportation company's stock worth 
$66,715,000 after purchasing an additional 95,596 shares in the last quarter.  Captrust Financial Advisors increased 
its position in shares of  Ryanair by 47.8% during the first quarter. Captrust Financial Advisors now owns 1,524 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $175,000 after purchasing an additional 493 shares in the last 
Weekly Research Analysts' Ratings Updates for Ryanair ( RYAAY )
quarter.  Finally, Veritable L.P. purchased a new stake in shares of  Ryanair during the first quarter worth 
approximately $211,000. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: Why is Cost of Capital Important? 
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
Boothbay Fund Management LLC Buys New Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Boothbay Fund Management LLC Buys New Position in Ryanair Holdings 
plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
November 12, 2021 Friday 1:12 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 799 words
Body
Nov 12, 2021( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Boothbay Fund Management LLC bought a new stake in shares of Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) in the 
second quarter, according to the company in its most recent 13F filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. 
The institutional investor bought 2,231 shares of the transportation company's stock, valued at approximately 
$241,000.  
A number of other institutional investors and hedge funds have also recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. 
WealthShield Partners LLC grew its stake in shares of Ryanair by 638.2% in the second quarter. WealthShield 
Partners LLC now owns 251 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after acquiring an 
additional 217 shares during the last quarter. Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new position in Ryanair in 
the second quarter valued at about $46,000. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. lifted its holdings in Ryanair by 
532.2% in the second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the period. PNC Managed 
Account Solutions Inc. bought a new position in shares of Ryanair in the second quarter worth about $79,000. 
Finally, Captrust Financial Advisors raised its stake in shares of Ryanair by 47.8% in the first quarter. Captrust 
Financial Advisors now owns 1,524 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $175,000 after buying an 
additional 493 shares during the period. Institutional investors and hedge funds own 43.91% of the company's 
stock.  
Shares of NASDAQ:RYAAY[1] opened at $117.21 on Friday. The business's 50 day simple moving average is 
$113.24 and its 200-day simple moving average is $111.70. The firm has a market capitalization of $26.46 billion, a 
price-to-earnings ratio of -33.30 and a beta of 1.56. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a current ratio 
of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.34. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12 month low of $94.68 and a 12 month high of 
$127.25.  
Several brokerages recently issued reports on RYAAY. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reissued a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Monday, October 25th. Peel Hunt upgraded Ryanair from a "hold" rating to 
a "buy" rating in a report on Friday, September 17th. Raymond James boosted their price objective on Ryanair from 
$135.00 to $140.00 and gave the company an "outperform" rating in a report on Thursday, October 7th. UBS Group 
restated a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Finally, Barclays 
reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Four 
Boothbay Fund Management LLC Buys New Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned a buy rating to the company's 
stock. According to data from MarketBeat, the stock presently has an average rating of "Buy" and an average price 
target of $122.48. 
Ryanair Profile 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: Technical Analysis of Stocks and What It Means [2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/sec-filings/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-
terms/technical-analysis-stocks/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 12, 2021 Friday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 153 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1577.6 -38.00 1890.2 1024 - -2.61 1068.9 CompassX 1576.5 -17.50 1721.63 18.06 - -
68.25 2505.8 Dalata Hotel 359.75 - 414.50 272.00 - -13.74 1.2 easyJet 614.20 -7.80 1095 550.20 - -2.02 3910.9 
FirstGrp 101.80 0.80 104.00 56.36 - 26.10 1382.7 Flutter Entertainment 12170 -340.00 19680.8 11700 - -305.78 
514.8 Fuller A 670.00 - 977.73 580.00 - -7.67 101.0 Go-Ahead 780.00 7.50 1463 683.03 - -7.28 117.7 IntCon Htels 
Gp 5102 -52.00 46170 4368 - -5036.53 330.1 Intl Cons Air 169.16 -4.38 222.10 2.06 - -1.75 26668.5 MandarO $ 
2.32 -0.01 2.36 1.65 - -7.55 234.3 Marstons 79.00 - 105.50 58.50 - -1.20 1806.0 Natl Exp 235.60 -0.20 413.50 
203.20 - -5.08 741.9 PPHE Htl 1348 10.00 1800 1175 - -5.99 4.5 Restaurt 80.10 -0.30 140.00 52.56 - 8.42 1472.3 
Ryanair Holdings PLC 308.50 0.50 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.29 191.4 TUI 233.60 -8.40 580.20 210.70 - -1.58 4723.1 
Whitbrd 3276 -62.00 3949.01 36.28 - -6.80 413.6
Load-Date: November 11, 2021
End of Document
12 November 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
12 November 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
Newstex Blogs 
AirInsight
November 12, 2021 Friday 10:11 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 874 words
Byline: Ernest Arvai
Body
Nov 12, 2021( AirInsight: http://airinsight.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Welcome to Morning Call for 12 November 2021, and the Top Aviation News Stories for today. You can also 
search our Archives[1] for older news stories by date. AirInsight US Airline Index 
 Commercial Aviation 
 Chinese spy convicted for trying to steal GE Aviation composite technology - Flight Global[2] Wall St. banks reap 
$7.2bn in dealmaking fees linked to GE break-up - Financial Times[3] Boeing admits its software caused Ethiopia 
737-MAX crash but refuses to pay families a penny - CityAM[4] After the crisis: how Guillaume Faury is readying 
Airbus for better times - Flight Global[5] China's Boeing purchases seen as 'weakness' in US trade deal probe, hurt 
by 'sour' relations-SCMP[6] Boeing set to dent Airbus India dominance with 737 MAX order - BNN[7] 
 Business Aviation 
 Clay Lacy sees slow, but growing interest in SAF - AIN[8] High-performance bizjets to remain market drivers in the 
Middle East - BlueSky[9] Bombardier sees Middle East new and pre-owned aircraft boom - AIN[10] 
 Airlines 
 Ryanair capacity exceeding pre-crisis levels in November - Flight Global[11] American Airlines ends 60 years of 
shuttle history with New York-Boston exit - Airline Weekly[12] Why PCR testing is crucial to rebuilding aviation - 
Flight Global[13] EU eyes blacklisting airlines over migrant flights, not intimidated by gas threats - Metro[14] SAS 
increases the number of flights to the US as demand for travel rises after reopening of borders - Aviation24[15] 
 Urban Air Mobility 
 Wright seeks stakeholder guidance on fuel cell options for electric airliners - FutureFlight[16] Ohio Advanced Air 
Mobility Showcase demonstrates US capabilities in UAM/AAM - UAM News[17] 
Social Media 
St. Elmo's fire from an A330 - Twitter[18] Airplane gets struck by lightning - Twitter[19] 
Please follow and like us: 
 [ 
1]: 
https://airinsight.com/?s=morning+call&et_pb_searchform_submit=et_search_proccess&et_pb_include_posts=yes [ 
2]: 
https://www.flightglobal.com/engines/chinese-spy-convicted-for-trying-to-steal-ge-aviation-composite-
technology/146290.article 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.ft.com/content/fa719574-b457-43fd-9c45-ae19a510c1cb 
[ 
4]: 
12 November 2021 - Morning Call Top Aviation News Stories
https://www.cityam.com/boeing-admits-its-software-caused-ethiopia-737-max-crash-but-refuses-to-pay-families-a-
penny/ 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.flightglobal.com/airframers/how-guillaume-faury-is-readying-airbus-for-better-
times/146318.article 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.scmp.com/economy/china-economy/article/3155729/chinas-boeing-
purchases-seen-weakness-us-trade-deal-probe [ 7]: https://www.bnnbloomberg.ca/boeing-set-to-dent-airbus-india-
dominance-with-737-max-order-1.1680446 [ 8]: https://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/business-aviation/2021-
11-11/clay-lacy-sees-slow-growing-interest-saf [ 9]: https://www.blueskynews.aero/issue-629/High-performance-
bizjets-to-remain-market-drivers-in-the-Middle-East.html [ 10]: https://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/business-
aviation/2021-11-11/bombardier-sees-middle-east-new-and-preowned-aircraft-boom 
[ 
11]: 
https://www.flightglobal.com/networks/ryanair-capacity-exceeding-pre-crisis-levels-in-november/146338.article [ 12]: 
https://airlineweekly.com/2021/11/american-airlines-ends-60-years-of-shuttle-history-with-new-york-boston-exit/ 
[ 
13]: https://www.flightglobal.com/paid-content/why-pcr-testing-is-crucial-to-rebuilding-aviation/146340.article [ 14]: 
https://www.metro.us/eu-eyes-blacklisting-airlines/ [ 15]: https://www.aviation24.be/airlines/scandinavian-airlines-
system-sas/sas-increases-the-number-of-flights-to-the-us-as-demand-for-travel-rises-after-reopening-of-borders/ 
[ 
16]: 
https://www.futureflight.aero/news-brief/2021-11-09/wright-seeks-stakeholder-guidance-fuel-cell-options-
electric-airliners 
[ 
17]: 
https://www.urbanairmobilitynews.com/air-taxis/ohio-advanced-air-mobility-showcase-
demonstrates-us-capabilities-in-uam-aam/ [ 18]: https://twitter.com/aviationbrk/status/1458726507405266952 [ 19]: 
https://twitter.com/AircraftYTube/status/1458420426443526148 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
What Do Putin and Lukashenka Have to Do with It?
What Do Putin and Lukashenka Have to Do with It?
Newstex Blogs 
StopFake.org
November 12, 2021 Friday 8:05 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1521 words
Byline: Vika Romanyuk
Body
Nov 11, 2021( StopFake.org: http://stopfake.org/en/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Moscow, Minsk and Their Migration Blackmail 
Marianna Prysiazhniuk 
The situation with migrants crossing over from Belarus into Poland could have turned into a case Belarus 
blackmailing the EU this past summer, it did not, but in the past few weeks the situation has become particularly 
heated. Belarusian state media and their sponsors, the Russian propaganda machine are blaming the West for this 
crisis, using their traditional narratives of western provocation and escalation. This time Ukraine also got caught in 
the crossfire, Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenka accused Ukraine of organizing the transit of migrants into 
Belarus and further to the Polish border. 'This is how these Afghans go, through the Central Asian republics, 
through Russia, through Belarus and further. And they also go through Ukraine, but Ukraine is 'their own' (the 
West's own, ed.) so they keep quiet about that. Belarus is a stranger, so it gets trashed' Lukashenka said[1] in an 
interview with the Russian defense publication National Defense. 
However, based on our StopFake fact checkers' analysis of the information on the migrant crisis coming out of 
Belarus and Russia, it is not the West and Ukraine but rather Moscow and Minsk that have unleashed a campaign 
to force the West to cooperate with the Lukashenka regime, which after the violent crackdown of 2020 did not even 
merit a handshake from the West. And Russia, true to form, sells its services to resolve the problem that Moscow 
itself created. 
The situation on the Belarusian with the EU members Poland and Lithuania began to heat up this summer after the 
Belarusian authorities kidnapped journalist Roman Protasevich by intercepting a Ryanair flight. After a wave of 
criticism was directed at the leader of the Belarusian regime, Alexander Lukashenko threatened Europe with an 
uncontrolled flow of migrants and smugglers, whom, he implied, Belarus had been holding back all this time, 
worrying about western borders. Soon thereafter Belarus announced its withdrawal from the readmission 
agreement, which involved returning illegal immigrants to their country of origin or to a country of transit. 
What Do Putin and Lukashenka Have to Do with It?
'We want to warn the Polish side in advance against using any provocations directed against the Republic of 
Belarus to justify possible illegal military actions against disadvantaged unarmed people, among whom there are 
many women and underage children,' the Belarusian Foreign Ministry said[2]. 
The situation on the Belarusian-Polish border is critical. According to various sources there are several thousand 
migrants on the border with Poland, they are accompanied by armed Belarusian security forces, several hundred 
more are at the Belarusian-Lithuanian border. 
In his National Defense interview[3] Lukashenka said the transit of these refugees was organized by accomplices 
from the West and from Belarus, and the situation in Belarus is just one stage of the transit scheme. 
It is interesting to note that in this same interview Lukashenka repeats Moscow's messaging about how the West 
destroyed Middle East regimes word for word. 'After all, all this happened in front of my very eyes' Lukashenka told 
the pro-Kremlin Igor Korotchenko[4] of National Defense. Lukashenko recalled that he knew many of the Middle 
East dictators, Hafez Assad, Saddam Hussein, Muammar Gaddafi. '#8216;We were in very close, good relations 
with them. We met with them. I'll tell you - the greatest thinkers. These are people who, by virtue of their position, 
understood very well what was happening. These were the leaders in their states. And these scoundrels just killed 
them. They killed them' Lukashenka said. 
Belarusian state television sets the tone for the coverage of this crisis, but Russian media are not lagging far 
behind. Belarusian state channels Belarus 1 and Belarus 24 claim that the migrant groups are mainly Kurds and 
Yazidis, people who do not have a state of their own and who are fleeing the chaos that the West has unleashed. 
The West is accused of provoking and aggravating the situation, and of a fascist approach to resolving the conflict. 
The Belarus 1 state channel interviewed a certain Piotr Petrovsky who said that Poland was mobilizing too many 
security forces in response to the flow of migrants. 'The situation on the border is very tense, we see an escalation 
on the part of Poland, the use of a maximum number of security troops, moreover those security troops who are not 
suitable for working with civilians,' Petrovsky told Belarus 1[5]. 
Neither Petrovsky nor his colleagues mention the fact that armed people accompany the migrants towards the 
Polish border across Belarus. Polish border guards published the evidence: video footage[6] of Belarusian security 
forces directing a column of refugees to the Polish border at gunpoint. 
'He (Putin - ed.) wants to use Lukashenka in the same way he uses puppet governments in the occupied territories 
of Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. He demands that the governments of these countries negotiate with the 
separatists, with people whom many call terrorists. He demands that Europe conduct a dialogue with the illegitimate 
president,' said Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielus Landsbergis. 
Poland and Lithuania are calling Belarus' actions blackmail, staged by Moscow. Judging by the messages 
disseminated by pro-Kremlin media, this fully reflects the intentions of Moscow and Minsk. 
'To resolve the situation, the Belarusian authorities are insisting on a direct and equal dialogue with the EU, which 
would be de-facto recognition of the Belarusian leadership by the European Union,' writes Rusbalt. 
Announcing Minsk's alleged readiness to negotiate the refugee issue with the EU on state television, Belarusian 
political commentator Alexander Shpakovsky lay the blame for the situation on the West,[7] portraying Belarus as 
completely innocent of any manipulation of the situation. 
What Do Putin and Lukashenka Have to Do with It?
'The Polish and Lithuanian sides are literally behaving like fascists toward these refugees: they beat them torture 
them, kill them. The Republic of Belarus did not initiate this migration crisis. The Republic of Belarus is interested in 
its resolution. The Republic of Belarus is ready for negotiations on any level with any partners' Shpakovsky said. 
Judging by the humanitarian crisis that the migrant situation is quickly turning into because of Belarus' blackmail, 
Minsk's declarations of willingness to negotiate look increasingly like coercion. By accusing Poland and Lithuania of 
fascism, Minsk is attempting to get out of the sanctions the West has imposed and the international isolation that 
the country is in because of Alexander Lukashenka's presidential election falsification and the massive repressions 
unleashed against the opposition that challenged those falsified election results. Which means that despite all 
propagandist attempts to portray the sanctions regime as ineffective, the sanctions are in fact an effective method 
of pressure on this regime. 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.belta.by/president/view/eti-merzavtsy-ih-prosto-ubili-lukashenko-nazval-vinovnyh-v-
migratsionnom-krizise-468746-2021/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://radiosputnik.ria.ru/20211109/belorussiya-
1758220531.html?utm_source=yxnews&utm_medium=desktop 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.belta.by/president/view/lukashenko-dal-intervjju-glavredu-zhurnala-natsionalnaja-oborona-voennomu-
ekspertu-igorju-korotchenko-468608-2021/ [ 4]: https://www.spisok-putina.org/en/personas/korotchenko-2/ [ 5]: 
https://www.tvr.by/news/obshchestvo/p_petrovskiy_zachem_styagivayutsya_tanki_protiv_obyknovennykh_tolp_gra
zhdan/ 
[ 
6]: 
https://nv.ua/ukr/world/countries/nelegali-shturmuyut-kordon-polshchi-video-ostanni-novini-
50190539.html 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.tvr.by/news/obshchestvo/a_shpakovskiy_o_kurdskikh_bezhentsakh_belarus_gotova_na_raznykh_urov
nyakh_peregovorov_s_lyubymi_part/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd Buys Artisan Acquisition Corp , Alibaba Group Holding , Fox Corp , Sells ...
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd Buys Artisan Acquisition Corp, Alibaba Group 
Holding, Fox Corp, Sells ...
Newstex Blogs 
GuruFocus.com
November 12, 2021 Friday 9:06 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 2286 words
Body
Nov 12, 2021( GuruFocus.com: http://www.gurufocus.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Central, K3, based Investment company NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [1] (Current Portfolio[2]) buys Artisan 
Acquisition Corp, Alibaba Group Holding, Fox Corp, SVF Investment Corp, BHP Group, sells Artisan Acquisition 
Corp, SVF Investment Corp, KKR Acquisition Holdings I Corp, Duddell Street Acquisition Corp, Ryanair Holdings 
PLC during the 3-months ended 2021Q3, according to the most recent filings of the investment company, NINE 
MASTS CAPITAL Ltd. As of 2021Q3, NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd owns 37 stocks with a total value of $147 million. 
These are the details of the buys and sells. 
New Purchases: ARTA[3], BABA[4], SVFA[5], BHP[6], BILI[7], INFY[8], BSAQ.U[9], KAHC[10], HDB[11], 
AMCR[12], JD[13], HHLA[14], BGNE[15], ORGN[16], BTWN[17], Added Positions: FOX[18], Reduced Positions: 
DSAC[19], RYAAY[20], HHLA.U[21], TINV[22], AGAC.U[23], PSAGU[24], Sold Out: ARTAU[25], SVFAU[26], 
KAHC.U[27], AMZN[28], TINV.U[29], NXPI[30], BTNB[31], KT[32], PTON[33], KURI[34], SNOW[35], BTWNU[36], 
For 
the 
details 
of 
NINE 
MASTS 
CAPITAL 
Ltd's 
stock 
buys 
and 
sells, 
go 
to 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/current-portfolio/portfolio[37] These are the top 5 holdings 
of NINE MASTS CAPITAL LtdFox Corp (FOX[38]) - 1,079,622 shares, 27.27% of the total portfolio. Shares added 
by 27.80%Artisan Acquisition Corp (ARTA[39]) - 1,100,000 shares, 7.42% of the total portfolio. New PositionAlibaba 
Group Holding Ltd (BABA[40]) - 68,072 shares, 6.77% of the total portfolio. New PositionAngel Pond Holdings Corp 
(POND.U[41]) - 899,242 shares, 6.06% of the total portfolio. Shares reduced by 0.16%Duddell Street Acquisition 
Corp (DSAC[42]) - 774,432 shares, 5.15% of the total portfolio. Shares reduced by 39.27%New Purchase: Artisan 
Acquisition Corp (ARTA[43]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [44] initiated holding in Artisan Acquisition Corp. The purchase prices were between 
$9.61 and $10.03, with an estimated average price of $9.72. The stock is now traded at around $9.890000. The 
impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 7.42%. The holding were 1,100,000 shares as of 2021-09-30. New 
Purchase: Alibaba Group Holding Ltd (BABA[45]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [46] initiated holding in Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. The purchase prices were between 
$145.08 and $221.87, with an estimated average price of $182.3. The stock is now traded at around $166.480000. 
The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 6.77%. The holding were 68,072 shares as of 2021-09-30. New 
Purchase: SVF Investment Corp (SVFA[47]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd Buys Artisan Acquisition Corp , Alibaba Group Holding , Fox Corp , Sells ...
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [48] initiated holding in SVF Investment Corp. The purchase prices were between $9.7 
and $9.9, with an estimated average price of $9.78. The stock is now traded at around $10.010000. The impact to a 
portfolio due to this purchase was 4.65%. The holding were 701,000 shares as of 2021-09-30. New Purchase: BHP 
Group Ltd (BHP[49]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [50] initiated holding in BHP Group Ltd. The purchase prices were between $52.56 and 
$80.24, with an estimated average price of $68.45. The stock is now traded at around $54.410000. The impact to a 
portfolio due to this purchase was 4.56%. The holding were 125,323 shares as of 2021-09-30. New Purchase: 
Bilibili Inc (BILI[51]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [52] initiated holding in Bilibili Inc. The purchase prices were between $64.33 and 
$121.11, with an estimated average price of $86.1. The stock is now traded at around $86.370000. The impact to a 
portfolio due to this purchase was 3.94%. The holding were 89,000 shares as of 2021-09-30. New Purchase: 
Infosys Ltd (INFY[53]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [54] initiated holding in Infosys Ltd. The purchase prices were between $20.64 and 
$24.1, with an estimated average price of $22.6. The stock is now traded at around $23.630000. The impact to a 
portfolio due to this purchase was 3.39%. The holding were 224,180 shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: Fox Corp 
(FOX[55]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [56] added to a holding in Fox Corp by 27.80%. The purchase prices were between 
$32.6 and $37.25, with an estimated average price of $34.31. The stock is now traded at around $38.160000. The 
impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 5.93%. The holding were 1,079,622 shares as of 2021-09-30. Sold 
Out: Artisan Acquisition Corp (ARTAU[57]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [58] sold out a holding in Artisan Acquisition Corp. The sale prices were between $9.81 
and $10.31, with an estimated average price of $9.99. Sold Out: SVF Investment Corp (SVFAU[59]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [60] sold out a holding in SVF Investment Corp. The sale prices were between $9.86 
and $10.22, with an estimated average price of $10. Sold Out: KKR Acquisition Holdings I Corp (KAHC.U[61]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [62] sold out a holding in KKR Acquisition Holdings I Corp. The sale prices were 
between $9.91 and $10.11, with an estimated average price of $10. Sold Out: Amazon.com Inc (AMZN[63]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [64] sold out a holding in Amazon.com Inc. The sale prices were between $3187.75 
and $3731.41, with an estimated average price of $3451.22. Sold Out: Tiga Acquisition Corp (TINV.U[65]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [66] sold out a holding in Tiga Acquisition Corp. The sale prices were between $10.33 
and $10.55, with an estimated average price of $10.45. Sold Out: NXP Semiconductors NV (NXPI[67]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [68] sold out a holding in NXP Semiconductors NV. The sale prices were between 
$188.62 and $227.64, with an estimated average price of $207.68. Reduced: Duddell Street Acquisition Corp 
(DSAC[69]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [70] reduced to a holding in Duddell Street Acquisition Corp by 39.27%. The sale prices 
were between $9.66 and $9.8, with an estimated average price of $9.72. The stock is now traded at around 
$9.910000. The impact to a portfolio due to this sale was -2.72%. NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd still held 774,432 
shares as of 2021-09-30. Reduced: Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY[71]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [72] reduced to a holding in Ryanair Holdings PLC by 44%. The sale prices were 
between $97.83 and $115.37, with an estimated average price of $108.2. The stock is now traded at around 
$113.600000. The impact to a portfolio due to this sale was -2.29%. NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd still held 29,777 
shares as of 2021-09-30. Reduced: HH&L Acquisition Co (HHLA.U[73]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [74] reduced to a holding in HH&L Acquisition Co by 56.02%. The sale prices were 
between $9.88 and $10.14, with an estimated average price of $9.99. The stock is now traded at around 
$10.000000. The impact to a portfolio due to this sale was -2.03%. NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd still held 175,125 
shares as of 2021-09-30. Reduced: Tiga Acquisition Corp (TINV[75]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [76] reduced to a holding in Tiga Acquisition Corp by 36.33%. The sale prices were 
between $9.99 and $10.14, with an estimated average price of $10.06. The stock is now traded at around 
$10.161000. The impact to a portfolio due to this sale was -1.97%. NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd still held 539,583 
shares as of 2021-09-30. Reduced: African Gold Acquisition Corp (AGAC.U[77]) 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd [78] reduced to a holding in African Gold Acquisition Corp by 37.12%. The sale prices 
were between $9.98 and $10.19, with an estimated average price of $10.05. The stock is now traded at around 
$10.162800. The impact to a portfolio due to this sale was -0.12%. NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd still held 22,062 
shares as of 2021-09-30. Here is the complete portfolio of NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd[79]. Also check out: 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd Buys Artisan Acquisition Corp , Alibaba Group Holding , Fox Corp , Sells ...
1. NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd's Undervalued Stocks[80] 2. NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd's Top Growth 
Companies[81], and 3. NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd's High Yield stocks[82] 4. Stocks that NINE MASTS CAPITAL 
Ltd keeps buying[83] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARTA 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BABA 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SVFA 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BHP 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BILI 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/INFY 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BSAQ.U 
[ 
10]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/KAHC 
[ 
11]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HDB 
[ 
12]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AMCR 
[ 
13]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/JD 
[ 
14]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HHLA 
[ 
15]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BGNE 
[ 
16]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ORGN 
[ 
17]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BTWN 
[ 
18]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/FOX 
[ 
19]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DSAC 
[ 
20]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RYAAY 
[ 
21]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HHLA.U 
[ 
22]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TINV 
[ 
23]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AGAC.U 
[ 
24]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/PSAGU 
[ 
25]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARTAU 
[ 
26]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SVFAU 
[ 
27]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/KAHC.U 
[ 
28]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AMZN 
[ 
29]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TINV.U 
[ 
30]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NXPI 
[ 
31]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BTNB 
[ 
32]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/KT 
[ 
33]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/PTON 
[ 
34]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/KURI 
[ 
35]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SNOW 
[ 
36]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BTWNU 
[ 
37]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
38]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:FOX/summary [ 39]: https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:ARTA/summary 
[ 
40]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:BABA/summary 
[ 
41]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:POND.U/summary 
[ 
42]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:DSAC/summary 
[ 
43]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:ARTA/summary 
[ 
44]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
45]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:BABA/summary 
[ 
46]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
47]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:SVFA/summary 
[ 
48]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
49]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:BHP/summary 
[ 
50]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
51]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:BILI/summary 
[ 
52]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
53]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:INFY/summary 
[ 
54]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
55]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:FOX/summary 
[ 
56]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
57]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:ARTAU 
[ 
58]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
59]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:SVFAU 
[ 
60]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
61]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:KAHC.U 
[ 
62]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
63]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:AMZN 
[ 
64]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
65]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:TINV.U 
[ 
66]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
67]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:NXPI 
[ 
68]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
69]: 
NINE MASTS CAPITAL Ltd Buys Artisan Acquisition Corp , Alibaba Group Holding , Fox Corp , Sells ...
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:DSAC/summary 
[ 
70]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
71]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:RYAAY/summary 
[ 
72]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
73]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:HHLA.U/summary 
[ 
74]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
75]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:TINV/summary 
[ 
76]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
77]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:AGAC.U/summary 
[ 
78]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/summary 
[ 
79]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1571306/%5C 
[ 
80]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/current-portfolio/portfolioundervalued 
[ 
81]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/current-portfolio/portfoliotop-growth 
[ 
82]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/current-portfolio/portfoliotop-yield 
[ 
83]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/nine+masts+capital+ltd/current-portfolio/portfoliohigh-convicton 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
Causeway Capital Management Llc Buys Ryanair Holdings PLC , General Electric Co , Credicorp , ...
Causeway Capital Management Llc Buys Ryanair Holdings PLC, General 
Electric Co, Credicorp, ...
Newstex Blogs 
GuruFocus.com
November 12, 2021 Friday 7:11 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 2760 words
Body
Nov 12, 2021( GuruFocus.com: http://www.gurufocus.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Los Angeles, CA, based Investment company Causeway Capital Management Llc[1] (Current Portfolio[2]) buys 
Ryanair Holdings PLC, General Electric Co, Credicorp, Berry Global Group Inc, America Movil SAB de CV, sells 
Hill-Rom Holdings Inc, Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc, JD.com Inc, Exelon Corp, Quest Diagnostics Inc during 
the 3-months ended 2021Q3, according to the most recent filings of the investment company, Causeway Capital 
Management Llc. As of 2021Q3, Causeway Capital Management Llc owns 81 stocks with a total value of $4.4 
billion. These are the details of the buys and sells. 
New Purchases: GE[3], AMX[4], CX[5], JXN[6], RDS.A[7], INMD[8], VSS[9], PDD[10], EWT[11], SMIN[12], Added 
Positions: RYAAY[13], BAP[14], BERY[15], LVS[16], WRK[17], QFIN[18], AZN[19], BP[20], FB[21], MELI[22], 
PBR.A[23], KSA[24], WIT[25], VEDL[26], UL[27], PUK[28], CS[29], TTE[30], SNP[31], Reduced Positions: JD[32], 
EXC[33], ORCL[34], NTES[35], GOOG[36], AVGO[37], BIDU[38], CARR[39], MDLZ[40], TSM[41], BABA[42], 
AIZ[43], CNXC[44], DIS[45], ABB[46], YUMC[47], C[48], ASH[49], SABR[50], LDOS[51], IBN[52], COP[53], 
RDY[54], FINV[55], HDB[56], FISV[57], BKNG[58], RELX[59], ESNT[60], BBVA[61], PKX[62], G[63], MT[64], 
VALE[65], ASHR[66], WM[67], SNY[68], NVS[69], TAK[70], SRE[71], INFY[72], ING[73], BCS[74], TTM[75], 
CLS[76], Sold Out: HRC[77], ARE[78], DGX[79], VIPS[80], EDU[81], VIV[82], SKM[83], For the details of  
Sarah Ketterer [84]'s stock buys and sells, go to https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-
portfolio/portfolio[85]These are the top 5 holdings of Sarah Ketterer [86]Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY[87]) - 
4,831,803 shares, 11.97% of the total portfolio. Shares added by 28.66%Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co 
Ltd (TSM[88]) - 4,119,404 shares, 10.35% of the total portfolio. Shares reduced by 3.93%Alibaba Group Holding 
Ltd (BABA[89]) - 1,652,647 shares, 5.51% of the total portfolio. Shares reduced by 5.03%Credicorp Ltd (BAP[90]) - 
1,669,907 shares, 4.17% of the total portfolio. Shares added by 43.96%Alphabet Inc (GOOG[91]) - 50,320 shares, 
3.02% of the total portfolio. Shares reduced by 21.38%New Purchase: General Electric Co (GE[92]) Causeway 
Capital Management Llc[93] initiated holding in General Electric Co. The purchase prices were between $96 and 
$107.84, with an estimated average price of $103.28. The stock is now traded at around $106.790000. The impact 
to a portfolio due to this purchase was 2.32%. The holding were 1,000,308 shares as of 2021-09-30. New 
Purchase: America Movil SAB de CV (AMX[94]) Causeway Capital Management Llc[95] initiated holding in America 
Movil SAB de CV. The purchase prices were between $14.64 and $19.56, with an estimated average price of 
$17.23. The stock is now traded at around $18.370000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 0.79%. 
Causeway Capital Management Llc Buys Ryanair Holdings PLC , General Electric Co , Credicorp , ...
The holding were 1,977,851 shares as of 2021-09-30. New Purchase: Cemex SAB de CV (CX[96]) Causeway 
Capital Management Llc[97] initiated holding in Cemex SAB de CV. The purchase prices were between $7.03 and 
$8.55, with an estimated average price of $7.9. The stock is now traded at around $6.580000. The impact to a 
portfolio due to this purchase was 0.51%. The holding were 3,136,029 shares as of 2021-09-30. New Purchase: 
Jackson Financial Inc (JXN[98]) Causeway Capital Management Llc[99] initiated holding in Jackson Financial Inc. 
The purchase prices were between $24.7 and $31.45, with an estimated average price of $27.21. The stock is now 
traded at around $33.320000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 0.48%. The holding were 814,045 
shares as of 2021-09-30. New Purchase: Royal Dutch Shell PLC (RDS.A[100]) Causeway Capital Management 
Llc[101] initiated holding in Royal Dutch Shell PLC. The purchase prices were between $37.08 and $44.57, with an 
estimated average price of $40.36. The stock is now traded at around $44.060000. The impact to a portfolio due to 
this purchase was 0.22%. The holding were 215,247 shares as of 2021-09-30. New Purchase: InMode Ltd 
(INMD[102]) Causeway Capital Management Llc[103] initiated holding in InMode Ltd. The purchase prices were 
between $45.58 and $88.24, with an estimated average price of $60.91. The stock is now traded at around 
$91.960000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 0.08%. The holding were 42,800 shares as of 2021-
09-30. Added: Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY[104]) Causeway Capital Management Llc[105] added to a holding in 
Ryanair Holdings PLC by 28.66%. The purchase prices were between $97.83 and $115.37, with an estimated 
average price of $108.2. The stock is now traded at around $113.910000. The impact to a portfolio due to this 
purchase was 2.67%. The holding were 4,831,803 shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: Credicorp Ltd (BAP[106]) 
Causeway Capital Management Llc[107] added to a holding in Credicorp Ltd by 43.96%. The purchase prices were 
between $92.3 and $122.89, with an estimated average price of $109.17. The stock is now traded at around 
$128.010000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 1.27%. The holding were 1,669,907 shares as of 
2021-09-30. Added: Berry Global Group Inc (BERY[108]) Causeway Capital Management Llc[109] added to a 
holding in Berry Global Group Inc by 82.67%. The purchase prices were between $60.14 and $68.66, with an 
estimated average price of $64.63. The stock is now traded at around $68.410000. The impact to a portfolio due to 
this purchase was 0.82%. The holding were 1,323,518 shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: Las Vegas Sands Corp 
(LVS[110]) Causeway Capital Management Llc[111] added to a holding in Las Vegas Sands Corp by 71.57%. The 
purchase prices were between $35.59 and $53.13, with an estimated average price of $43.05. The stock is now 
traded at around $39.215000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 0.78%. The holding were 
2,264,123 shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: WestRock Co (WRK[112]) Causeway Capital Management Llc[113] 
added to a holding in WestRock Co by 35.72%. The purchase prices were between $47.96 and $53.34, with an 
estimated average price of $50.58. The stock is now traded at around $49.695000. The impact to a portfolio due to 
this purchase was 0.49%. The holding were 1,661,509 shares as of 2021-09-30. Added: 360 DigiTech Inc 
(QFIN[114]) Causeway Capital Management Llc[115] added to a holding in 360 DigiTech Inc by 90.31%. The 
purchase prices were between $16.9 and $38.79, with an estimated average price of $23.79. The stock is now 
traded at around $26.010000. The impact to a portfolio due to this purchase was 0.29%. The holding were 
1,325,021 shares as of 2021-09-30. Sold Out: Hill-Rom Holdings Inc (HRC[116]) Causeway Capital Management 
Llc[117] sold out a holding in Hill-Rom Holdings Inc. The sale prices were between $114.56 and $151.88, with an 
estimated average price of $134.94. Sold Out: Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc (ARE[118]) Causeway Capital 
Management Llc[119] sold out a holding in Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc. The sale prices were between 
$182.26 and $209.07, with an estimated average price of $199. Sold Out: Quest Diagnostics Inc (DGX[120]) 
Causeway Capital Management Llc[121] sold out a holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc. The sale prices were between 
$132.95 and $158, with an estimated average price of $146.26. Sold Out: Vipshop Holdings Ltd (VIPS[122]) 
Causeway Capital Management Llc[123] sold out a holding in Vipshop Holdings Ltd. The sale prices were between 
$10.99 and $19.67, with an estimated average price of $15.77. Sold Out: New Oriental Education & Technology 
Group Inc (EDU[124]) Causeway Capital Management Llc[125] sold out a holding in New Oriental Education & 
Technology Group Inc. The sale prices were between $1.7 and $7.81, with an estimated average price of $3.23. 
Sold Out: Telefonica Brasil SA (VIV[126]) Causeway Capital Management Llc[127] sold out a holding in Telefonica 
Brasil SA. The sale prices were between $7.69 and $8.46, with an estimated average price of $8.07.  
Here is the complete portfolio of Sarah Ketterer[128]. Also check out: 
1. Sarah Ketterer's Undervalued Stocks[129] 2. Sarah Ketterer's Top Growth Companies[130], and 3. Sarah 
Ketterer's High Yield stocks[131] 4. Stocks that Sarah Ketterer keeps buying[132] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio [ 3]: https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/GE 
Causeway Capital Management Llc Buys Ryanair Holdings PLC , General Electric Co , Credicorp , ...
[ 
4]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AMX 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CX 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/JXN 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RDS.A 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/INMD 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/VSS 
[ 
10]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/PDD 
[ 
11]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EWT 
[ 
12]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SMIN 
[ 
13]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RYAAY 
[ 
14]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BAP 
[ 
15]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BERY 
[ 
16]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/LVS 
[ 
17]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/WRK 
[ 
18]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/QFIN 
[ 
19]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AZN 
[ 
20]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BP 
[ 
21]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/FB 
[ 
22]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/MELI 
[ 
23]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/PBR.A 
[ 
24]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/KSA 
[ 
25]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/WIT 
[ 
26]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/VEDL 
[ 
27]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/UL 
[ 
28]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/PUK 
[ 
29]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CS 
[ 
30]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TTE 
[ 
31]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SNP 
[ 
32]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/JD 
[ 
33]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EXC 
[ 
34]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ORCL 
[ 
35]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NTES 
[ 
36]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/GOOG 
[ 
37]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AVGO 
[ 
38]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BIDU 
[ 
39]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CARR 
[ 
40]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/MDLZ 
[ 
41]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TSM 
[ 
42]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BABA 
[ 
43]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/AIZ 
[ 
44]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CNXC 
[ 
45]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DIS 
[ 
46]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ABB 
[ 
47]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/YUMC 
[ 
48]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/C 
[ 
49]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ASH 
[ 
50]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SABR 
[ 
51]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/LDOS 
[ 
52]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/IBN 
[ 
53]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/COP 
[ 
54]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RDY 
[ 
55]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/FINV 
[ 
56]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HDB 
[ 
57]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/FISV 
[ 
58]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BKNG 
[ 
59]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/RELX 
[ 
60]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ESNT 
[ 
61]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BBVA 
[ 
62]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/PKX 
[ 
63]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/G 
[ 
64]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/MT 
[ 
65]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/VALE 
[ 
66]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ASHR 
[ 
67]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/WM 
[ 
68]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SNY 
[ 
69]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NVS 
[ 
70]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TAK 
[ 
71]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SRE 
[ 
72]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/INFY 
[ 
73]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ING 
[ 
74]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/BCS 
[ 
75]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/TTM 
[ 
76]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/CLS 
[ 
77]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/HRC 
[ 
78]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/ARE 
[ 
79]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/DGX 
[ 
80]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/VIPS 
[ 
81]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/EDU 
[ 
82]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/VIV 
[ 
83]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/SKM 
[ 
84]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/summary 
[ 
85]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
86]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/summary 
[ 
87]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:RYAAY/summary 
[ 
88]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:TSM/summary 
[ 
89]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:BABA/summary 
[ 
90]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:BAP/summary 
[ 
91]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:GOOG/summary 
[ 
92]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:GE/summary 
[ 
93]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
94]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:AMX/summary 
[ 
95]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
96]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:CX/summary 
[ 
97]: 
Causeway Capital Management Llc Buys Ryanair Holdings PLC , General Electric Co , Credicorp , ...
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
98]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:JXN/summary 
[ 
99]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
100]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:RDS.A/summary 
[ 
101]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
102]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:INMD/summary 
[ 
103]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
104]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:RYAAY/summary 
[ 
105]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
106]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:BAP/summary 
[ 
107]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
108]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:BERY/summary 
[ 
109]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
110]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:LVS/summary 
[ 
111]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
112]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:WRK/summary 
[ 
113]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
114]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NAS:QFIN/summary 
[ 
115]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
116]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:HRC 
[ 
117]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-
portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
118]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:ARE 
[ 
119]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
120]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:DGX 
[ 
121]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-
portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
122]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:VIPS 
[ 
123]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
124]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:EDU 
[ 
125]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-
portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
126]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/stock/NYSE:VIV 
[ 
127]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfolio 
[ 
128]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/news/1571249/%5C [ 129]: https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-
portfolio/portfolioundervalued [ 130]: https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfoliotop-
growth 
[ 
131]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfoliotop-yield 
[ 
132]: 
https://www.gurufocus.com/guru/sarah+ketterer/current-portfolio/portfoliohigh-convicton 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Holdings Lowered by Weiss Multi Strategy Advisers LLC
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Stock Holdings Lowered by Weiss 
Multi Strategy Advisers LLC
American Banking and Market News
November 11, 2021 Thursday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 628 words
Body
Ryanair Weiss Multi Strategy Advisers LLC reduced its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 
1.9% during the second quarter, according to its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC). The institutional investor  owned 48,580 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 953 
shares during the quarter. Weiss Multi Strategy Advisers LLC's holdings in Ryanair were worth $5,257,000 at the 
end of the most recent quarter.  
Several other hedge funds and other institutional investors have also added to or reduced their stakes in RYAAY. 
Geode Capital Management LLC raised its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 3.2% in the 1st quarter. Geode Capital 
Management LLC now owns 95,479 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $10,980,000 after 
purchasing an additional 2,966 shares in the last quarter.  Barclays PLC acquired a new stake in shares of  Ryanair 
during the first quarter valued at approximately $355,000.  Ameriprise Financial Inc. raised its holdings in shares of  
Ryanair by 19.7% during the first quarter. Ameriprise Financial Inc. now owns 580,141 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $66,715,000 after acquiring an additional 95,596 shares during the period.  Captrust 
Financial Advisors raised its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 47.8% during the first quarter. Captrust Financial 
Advisors now owns 1,524 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $175,000 after acquiring an 
additional 493 shares during the period.  Finally, Putnam Investments LLC raised its holdings in shares of  Ryanair 
by 240.8% during the first quarter. Putnam Investments LLC now owns 444,425 shares of the transportation 
company's stock valued at $51,109,000 after acquiring an additional 314,025 shares during the period. Institutional 
investors and hedge funds own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
A number of equities research analysts have recently issued reports on the stock. Peel Hunt upgraded shares of 
Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on Friday, September 17th. Credit Suisse Group  reaffirmed 
an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Friday, September 17th. Redburn Partners 
raised shares of Ryanair from a "neutral" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 price objective on the stock in a 
research report on Tuesday, July 27th. Raymond James boosted their price objective on shares of Ryanair from 
$135.00 to $140.00 and gave the company an "outperform" rating in a research report on Thursday, October 7th. 
Finally, UBS Group  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research report on Tuesday, September 
28th. Four research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a buy rating to the 
company. According to MarketBeat, the company  has a consensus rating of "Buy" and an average price target of 
$122.48. 
Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Stock Holdings Lowered by Weiss Multi Strategy Advisers LLC
Shares of Ryanair stock  opened at $120.96 on Thursday. The firm has a fifty day simple moving average of 
$113.04 and a 200-day simple moving average of $111.66. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 
1.34 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1-year low of $94.68 and a 1-year high of 
$127.25. The stock has a market capitalization of $27.31 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -34.36 and a beta of 
1.56.  
Ryanair Company Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
See Also: Why is the Consumer Price Index (CPI) important? 
Load-Date: November 11, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 11, 2021 Thursday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 153 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1615.6 -4.40 1890.2 1024 - -2.68 1565.8 CompassX 1594 13.50 1721.63 18.06 - -69.00 
3468.5 Dalata Hotel 359.75 - 414.50 272.00 - -13.74 2.9 easyJet 622.00 -8.40 1095 550.20 - -2.05 3577.2 FirstGrp 
101.00 - 104.00 53.35 - 25.90 6087.3 Flutter Entertainment 12510 50.00 19680.8 11700 - -314.32 501.4 Fuller A 
670.00 4.00 977.73 580.00 - -7.67 25.9 Go-Ahead 772.50 -21.50 1463 683.03 - -7.21 65.8 IntCon Htels Gp 5154 -
66.00 46170 4368 - -5087.86 598.1 Intl Cons Air 173.54 -0.16 222.10 2.06 - -1.79 29401.8 MandarO $ 2.33 0.01 
2.36 1.65 - -7.54 200.0 Marstons 79.00 -1.50 105.50 57.05 - -1.20 1588.3 Natl Exp 235.80 0.80 413.50 203.20 - -
5.08 557.3 PPHE Htl 1338 2.00 1800 1145.65 - -5.95 67.3 Restaurt 80.40 -2.60 140.00 52.56 - 8.45 8207.0 Ryanair 
Holdings PLC 308.00 - 338.60 250.00 1.07 52.20 234.1 TUI 242.00 -4.60 580.20 210.70 - -1.39 3094.2 Whitbrd 
3338 23.00 3949.01 36.28 - -6.93 471.5
Load-Date: November 10, 2021
End of Document
Teesside Airport sees key international airline put Summer 2022 flights on sale
Teesside Airport sees key international airline put Summer 2022 flights on 
sale
Newstex Blogs 
Bdaily Business News
November 11, 2021 Thursday 1:35 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 547 words
Byline: Matthew Neville
Body
Nov 11, 2021( Bdaily Business News: http://bdaily.co.uk/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 North East prospective holidaymakers can now book flights from Teesside International Airport, as Ryanair's 
summer 2022 flights go on sale. 
 The airline will be running a twice-weekly service on Tuesdays and Saturdays to Majorca from 29 March to 29 
October, with Faro, Portugal, also running every Wednesday and Saturday between 30 March and 29 October. 
Flights to the Greek island of Corfu will depart on Fridays from June. 
 The summer flights also join Ryanair's service from Teesside to Alicante, which has become a year-round service 
due to local demand, and which departs every Monday and Friday. 
 The news follows the announcement that Loganair will begin operating a one-stop service between Teesside and 
Esbjerg in Denmark, travelling via Aberdeen but without any need for passengers to leave the plane. 
 Tees Valley Mayor Ben Houchen said: 'The fantastic uptake of this year's summer flights shows that people are 
really eager to get away after a difficult 18 months, and that support has meant that Ryanair is continuing to back 
our airport once again by putting next year's tickets on sale now. 
 'Thanks to this vote of confidence in our amazing airport, people from across Teesside, Darlington and Hartlepool 
can get to some of the most popular summer hotspots in just a few short hours without the tedious travel times to 
airports such as Newcastle, Leeds Bradford or Doncaster, with our freshly redeveloped terminal delivering a fast, 
efficient and friendly service.' 
 A spokesperson for Ryanair said: 'Ryanair, Europe's No.1 airline, is committed to re-building the UK's aviation and 
tourism industries. We are excited to continue working with Teesside Airport and to connect passengers in the 
North East to their favourite holiday destinations next summer including Alicante, Corfu, Faro and Majorca.' 
 Looking to promote your product/service to SME businesses in your region? Find out how Bdaily can help → [1] 
 [ 1]: https://marketing.bdaily.co.uk 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
Teesside Airport sees key international airline put Summer 2022 flights on sale
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 11, 2021
End of Document
Who's To Blame?
Who's To Blame?
Newstex Blogs 
StopFake.org
November 11, 2021 Thursday 1:05 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1028 words
Byline: Ольга Юркова
Body
Nov 11, 2021( StopFake.org: http://stopfake.org/en/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 By EU vs Disinfo[1] 
The Belarusian state propaganda machine launches attacks in support of the regime's cynical instrumentalisation of 
migrants. 
In recent weeks, the tensions between Belarus and neighbouring EU member states have taken a worrying turn for 
the worse. Belarus' systemic andcynical instrumentalisation of migrants for political purposes[2], and its attempts to 
destabilise the eastern EU borders, entered a new phase of escalation. According to news sources, columns of 
migrants,flown in to Minsk from a number of countries[3], wereguided by the Belarusian authorities[4]towards the 
Polish border, where clashes ensued. 
Against this backdrop, the EU Commission has called forEU member states to approve an extended sanctions 
regime against the Belarusian authorities[5]; the Polish authoritieshave been forced to increase the number of 
soldiers and border guards[6]protecting the EU's external border; and theLithuanian authorities declared a state of 
emergency[7]on the country's border with Belarus. 
Whose fault is this hybrid attack against the EU, as the President of the EU Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, put 
it? If you ask the Belarusian propaganda machinery and pro-Kremlin outlets, the answer becomes clear - it isthe 
collective West[8],the Polish authoritiessending tanks to the border[9], and theEU adopting sanctions for its internal 
purposes[10]. 
All these pieces of disinformation distract from the fact that 'the authoritarian regime in Belarus is exploiting human 
beings for political reasons[11]', as EU Commissioner Ylva Johansson stated. Belarus is cynically exploiting 
migrants in trying to exact revenge on the EU, which does not recognise the falsified results of the last Belarusian 
Presidential elections and has imposed restrictive measures against the regime and individuals for, among other 
Who's To Blame?
reasons, repression of peaceful demonstrators, human rights violations, and the forced landing of a Ryanair flight in 
Minsk. 
Poland and Lithuania have found themselves in the crosshairs of pro-Kremlin outlets in other areas than the 
ongoing migration crisis. For example, according to one source, Poland ispreparing for war with Russia and 
Belarus[12], which sounds like a rather outlandish theory to say the very least. Lithuania, in turn, has been cast as 
anaggressive human rights violator[13], which according tocredible sources[14]appears to be far from the truth, and 
a case of psychological projection. 
An escalating situation such as the one currently unfolding on the EU's eastern external border, often features vast 
amounts of disinformation. It serves the aggressor's purpose to muddle the waters, cast the blame elsewhere, and 
frame their own actions as righteous. Furthermore, soiling the adversary's external image is high up on the 
aggressor's campaign plan. All this is evident also in the current situation, and in the disinformation bursts from pro-
Kremlin and Belarusian regime outlets. 
Other notable examples of pro-Kremlin disinformation claims this week: 
 Pro-Kremlin outlets' timeless classic:NATO violated its pledge not to move eastwards;[15]No, we don't:Western 
Europeans perceive the Poles as 'Eastern barbarians' and 'Slavic pigs';[16]Oh, yes, it happened - illegally, mind 
you:Russia did not annex Crimea.[17] 
 By EU vs Disinfo[18] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://euvsdisinfo.eu/whos-to-blame/ 
[ 
2]: 
https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/statement_21_5867 [ 3]: https://www.bbc.com/news/world-
58952867 [ 4]: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/nov/08/belarus-escorts-hundreds-of-migrants-towards-
polish-border 
[ 
5]: 
https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/statement_21_5867 
[ 
6]: 
https://www.cbsnews.com/news/belarus-poland-border-crisis-migrant-soldiers-mass-as-eu-claims-hybrid-attack/ 
[ 
7]: https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/1537044/lithuania-moves-to-declare-state-of-emergency-on-border-with-
belarus [ 8]: https://euvsdisinfo.eu/report/the-west-is-responsible-for-the-migration-crisis-on-eu-belarus-borders [ 9]: 
https://euvsdisinfo.eu/report/poland-set-to-fight-migrants-with-tanks-searches-for-excuse-to-close-in-on-belarus 
[ 
10]: https://euvsdisinfo.eu/report/the-eu-adopts-sanctions-against-belarus-to-manage-its-own-internal-contradictions 
[ 11]: https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_21_3846 [ 12]: https://euvsdisinfo.eu/report/poland-
is-preparing-for-war-with-russia-and-belarus 
[ 
13]: 
https://euvsdisinfo.eu/report/lithuania-aggressively-violates-
human-rights 
[ 
14]: 
https://freedomhouse.org/country/lithuania/freedom-world/2021 
[ 
15]: 
https://euvsdisinfo.eu/report/nato-violated-its-pledge-not-to-move-eastwards 
[ 
16]: 
https://euvsdisinfo.eu/report/western-europeans-perceive-the-poles-as-eastern-barbarians-and-slavic-pigs 
[ 
17]: 
https://euvsdisinfo.eu/report/russia-did-not-annex-crimea [ 18]: https://euvsdisinfo.eu/whos-to-blame/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 11, 2021
Who's To Blame?
End of Document
Southwest and British Airways fuel deals send Velocys shares surging
Southwest and British Airways fuel deals send Velocys shares surging
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
November 10, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 581 words
Body
Shares of London-listed fuels technology firm Velocys rose by more than 40% on Wednesday after it announced 
two deals related to the supply of aviation fuel.
In a statement, the company said its subsidiary, Velocys Renewables, had entered into an agreement with 
Southwest Airlines.
The deal relates to a planned biorefinery in Mississippi, with Southwest set to buy an expected 219 million gallons 
of sustainable aviation fuel at a fixed price across a period of 15 years.
"After blending, this will enable approximately 575 million gallons of net zero SAF," Velocys said. The Bayou Fuels 
biorefinery is slated to start commercial delivery of fuel "as early as 2026."
In addition to the deal with Southwest, Velocys Renewables signed a memorandum of understanding with the 
International Consolidated Airlines Group. Again, the deal is connected to the Bayou Fuels project.
According to Velocys, it "covers the purchase by IAG's constituent airlines, which includes British Airways, Aer 
Lingus and Iberia amongst others, of an expected 73 million gallons of SAF, in aggregate, at a fixed price."
The purchase contract is due to last for 10 years from 2026. Post blending, the equivalent of 192 million gallons of 
net zero SAF will be generated.
In a statement issued alongside Velocys' announcement, IAG's CEO, Luis Gallego, described the agreement as 
"another important step towards achieving our goal of 10 per cent sustainable aviation fuel use by 2030."
Although the European Union Aviation Safety Agency says there's "not a single internationally agreed definition" of 
sustainable aviation fuel, the overarching idea is that it can be used to reduce an aircraft's emissions.
According to Velocys, Bayou Fuels will focus on processing waste from the lumber and paper industries, which it 
describes as "woody biomass forest residue that would otherwise rot on the forest floor or contribute to forest fires."
Carbon capture and storage technology will be used at the project to allow for what Velocys calls "the commercial-
scale production of SAF with an extremely negative carbon intensity."
Southwest and British Airways fuel deals send Velocys shares surging
Aviation's challenge
As concerns about sustainability and the environment mount - the World Wildlife Fund describes air travel as "the 
most carbon intensive activity an individual can make" - discussions around aviation are increasingly focused on 
how innovations and ideas could cut its environmental footprint.
In a recent interview with CNBC's Steve Sedgwick, Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary was cautious when it came to the 
outlook for new and emerging technologies in the sector.
"I think ... we should be honest again," he said. "Certainly, for the next decade ... I don't think you're going to see 
any - there's no technology out there that's going to replace ... carbon, jet aviation."
"I don't see the arrival of ... hydrogen fuels, I don't see the arrival of sustainable fuels, I don't see the arrival of 
electric propulsion systems, certainly not before 2030," he went on to say.
"So it will certainly be after my career in the airline industry is finished ... but I hope it will get here before the end of 
our mortal lives."
Anmar Frangoul  www.cnbc.com
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: December 3, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $123.86
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $123.86
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
November 10, 2021 Wednesday 12:06 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 702 words
Body
Nov 10, 2021( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)'s stock price gapped down before the market opened on Monday . The 
stock had previously closed at $123.86, but opened at $121.26. Ryanair shares last traded at $122.82, with a 
volume of 735 shares.  
RYAAY has been the subject of several research reports. JPMorgan Chase & Co. reissued a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Monday, October 25th. Barclays reaffirmed an "overweight" rating on shares of 
Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Sanford C. Bernstein cut Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a 
"market perform" rating in a report on Monday. Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft reaffirmed a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Finally, Peel Hunt raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a 
"buy" rating in a report on Friday, September 17th. Four research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating 
and thirteen have assigned a buy rating to the stock. Based on data from MarketBeat, Ryanair has a consensus 
rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.48. 
The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.34 and a current ratio of 1.34. The company has a 
market cap of $27.54 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of -34.66 and a beta of 1.56. The business has a fifty day 
moving average price of $112.78 and a 200 day moving average price of $111.59.  
Several institutional investors have recently bought and sold shares of the company. WealthShield Partners LLC 
grew its position in Ryanair by 638.2% during the 2nd quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 shares of 
the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after acquiring an additional 217 shares during the last quarter. 
Advisory Services Network LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair during the 2nd quarter worth $46,000. JFS Wealth 
Advisors LLC bought a new stake in Ryanair during the 3rd quarter worth $47,000. Rockefeller Capital 
Management L.P. grew its position in Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management 
L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 
shares during the last quarter. Finally, PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. bought a new stake in Ryanair during 
the 2nd quarter worth $79,000. 43.91% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.  
Ryanair Company Profile (NASDAQ:RYAAY[1]) 
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: Current Ratio[2] 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $123.86
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/RYAAY/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-
is-current-ratio/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 10, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Hits New 12-Month High at $18.59
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Hits New 12-Month High at $18.59
Newstex Blogs 
Transcript Daily
November 10, 2021 Wednesday 3:11 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 456 words
Body
Nov 10, 2021( Transcript Daily: https://transcriptdaily.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (LON:RYA) reached a new 52-week high on Monday . The stock traded as high as GBX 
18.59 ($0.24) and last traded at GBX 17.98 ($0.23), with a volume of 480656 shares changing hands. The stock 
had previously closed at GBX 18.11 ($0.24). 
Separately, Liberum Capital reissued a "hold" rating and set a GBX 1,700 ($22.21) target price on shares of 
Ryanair in a research report on Monday, July 26th. 
The company has a 50-day simple moving average of GBX 16.65 and a 200 day simple moving average of GBX 
16.47. The company has a market cap of 196.01 million and a P/E ratio of -30.11. The company has a current ratio 
of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.14 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 116.44.  
About Ryanair (LON:RYA[1]) 
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Germany, and Other European countries. It is also involved in the provision of various 
ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and internet-related services; in-flight sale of beverages, 
food, and merchandise; and marketing accommodation and hotel services, car hire, and travel insurance through its 
Website and mobile app. 
Further Reading: Market Capitalization in the Stock Market [2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/LON/RYA/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/market-
capitalization-what-it-means/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Hits New 12-Month High at $18.59
Load-Date: November 10, 2021
End of Document
Belarus migrant crisis: Germany calls for new EU sanctions
Belarus migrant crisis: Germany calls for new EU sanctions
Newstex Blogs 
Deutsche Welle World
November 10, 2021 Wednesday 3:25 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 596 words
Body
Nov 10, 2021( Deutsche Welle World: http://www.dw.de/top-stories/world/s-1429 Delivered by Newstex)  
 German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas has accused Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko of "unscrupulously 
exploiting" the migrants by sending them towards Poland.German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas called for new EU 
sanctions against Belarus on Wednesday amid an escalating migrant crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border. 
Thousands of people are stranded at the EU's eastern border in freezing weather, with Warsaw accusing Russia 
and Belarus of using the migrants to threaten European security. 
What did Germany's foreign minister say? 
Maas said in a statement that Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko is "unscrupulously exploiting" the 
migrants and sending them to the border region. 
"We will sanction all those who participate in the targeted smuggling of migrants," the German foreign minister 
asserted, while adding that the EU will push to "extend and tighten ... sanctions against Lukashenko's regime." 
Any fresh sanctions could target not only countries involved in smuggling the migrants but also airlines that faciliate 
their travel to Europe. 
EU officials accuse Belarus of weaponizing the migrants against the 27-member bloc in retaliation for previous 
sanctions against Minsk. Lukashenko has denied that his government is orchestrating the migrant crisis. 
Maas said the images of the thousands of migrants at the Polish-Belarusian border are "appalling." 
Maas' remarks come after German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer told the Tuesday edition of Germany's Bild 
tabloid that the EU needs to do more to help Poland secure its border. Poland has refused to let the migrants in. 
How has the EU responded so far? 
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen called for "approval of extended sanctions" against Belarus 
on Monday. 
The bloc has previously approved four rounds of sanctions targeting 166 people and 15 entities linked to 
Lukashenko's regime. 
Tensions have been fraught between the EU and Belarus since the state-ordered hijacking of a Ryanair flight over 
Belarusian territory in May. 
The EU has also condemned last year's presidential election in Belarus as neither free nor fair, with Lukashenko 
having declared a landslide victory against opposition candidate Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya.  
wd/nm (AFP, dpa) 
Belarus migrant crisis: Germany calls for new EU sanctions
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 10, 2021
End of Document
Travel & Leisure FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Travel & Leisure; FINANCIAL TIMES SHARE SERVICE
Financial Times (London, England)
November 10, 2021 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 19
Length: 155 words
Body
Travel & Leisure Carnival 1620 -30.60 1890.2 904.60 - -2.68 861.7 CompassX 1580.5 -8.50 1721.63 18.06 - -68.42 
1906.3 Dalata Hotel 359.75 -24.75 414.50 221.50 - -13.74 4.5 easyJet 630.40 -20.00 1095 537.60 - -2.08 9197.2 
FirstGrp 101.00 -1.30 104.00 46.68 - 25.90 3666.2 Flutter Entertainment 12460 -20.00 19680.8 11700 - -313.07 
267.1 Fuller A 666.00 8.00 977.73 575.00 - -7.63 348.1 Go-Ahead 794.00 11.50 1463 604.50 - -7.41 61.1 IntCon 
Htels Gp 5220 -8.00 46170 4195 - -5153.01 581.4 Intl Cons Air 173.70 -3.68 222.10 2.06 - -1.80 32042.8 MandarO 
$ 2.32 - 2.36 1.65 - -7.46 481.0 Marstons 80.50 -0.15 105.50 48.00 - -1.22 3092.3 Natl Exp 235.00 -5.80 413.50 
167.60 - -5.06 814.3 PPHE Htl 1336 16.00 1800 1005 - -5.94 5.1 Restaurt 83.00 -1.70 140.00 45.09 - 8.73 2134.1 
Ryanair Holdings PLC 308.00 -4.50 338.60 244.00 1.07 52.20 294.6 TUI 246.60 -5.80 580.20 210.70 - -1.42 2868.3 
Whitbrd 3315 -43.00 3949.01 36.28 - -6.88 588.3
Load-Date: November 9, 2021
End of Document
Gatwick to host short-haul price war as BA deal made
Gatwick to host short-haul price war as BA deal made
City A.M.
November 10, 2021 Wednesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 112 words
Byline: ILARIA GRASSO MACOLA
Body
GATWICK airport will keep its links to British Airways with its new short-haul operation, as the UK flag carrier goes 
on a hiring spree to take the fight to budget carriers from the West Sussex base.
The deal means Gatwick will host BA, EasyJet, Ryanair and Wizz flights, keeping price competition strong for short-
haul at the base.
BA is also looking to hire 4,000 new staff members by mid-2022.
BA will advance plans for a shorthaul unit from Gatwick after pilot and crew unions backed the idea.
Luis Gallego, CEO of BA's owner IAG, told Bloomberg the airline still had to negotiate with ground staff.
"If we can close all of that we will start flying... in March 2022." he said.
Load-Date: November 10, 2021
End of Document
Airline Stock Roundup: DAL 's Update on Foreign Travel, RYAAY , AZUL in Focus
Airline Stock Roundup: DAL's Update on Foreign Travel, RYAAY, AZUL in 
Focus
Newstex Blogs 
Zacks Investment Research
November 10, 2021 Wednesday 7:45 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1615 words
Byline: Maharathi Basu
Body
Nov 10, 2021( Zacks Investment Research: http://www.zacks.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 In the past week, management at Delta Air Lines DAL[1] issued an encouraging update on bookings pertaining to 
international travel. Brazilian carrier Azul AZUL[2] was also in the news as it released its October traffic report, 
which was aided by the upbeat air-travel demand scenario in Brazil. Ryanair Holdings' RYAAY[3] October traffic 
release was also impressive, courtesy of the uptick in air-travel demand in Europe. 
In keeping with its environmentally-friendly attitude, Southwest Airlines LUV[4] inked a long-term deal with Velocys 
Renewables, an international sustainable fuels technology company. Recap of the Latest Top Stories 1. 
International travel demand is also recovering following the U.S. government's announcement to reopen 
international borders. Per the new policy, foreign nationals (from 33 countries) will have to be fully vaccinated when 
they fly to the United States. Evidently, management of Delta confirmed that a 450% surge in international bookings 
has been witnessed in six weeks' time since the above announcement. Flight DL106 from Sao Paulo to Atlanta was 
Delta's first international flight to touch down in the United States on Nov 8, under the new set of rules. To cater to 
the anticipated demand swell, Delta boosted its network this winter from the key European cities including London-
Boston, Detroit and New York-JFK, Amsterdam-Boston, Dublin-New York-JFK, Frankfurt-New York-JFK and 
Munich-Atlanta. 
2. In a bid to enhance its European footprint, Alaska Air Group's ALK[5] subsidiary Alaska Airlines announced a 
codeshare agreement with British Airways, thereby expanding its partnership with the latter, which is a member of 
the oneworld alliance. In fact, since joining the oneworld alliance on Mar 31, 2021, Alaska Airlines has broadened 
its network by 39%, adding 188 additional codeshare routes. The codeshare pact with British Airways gives Alaska 
Airlines an access to 16 additional markets[6]. 
3. Ryanair's October 2021 traffic surged more than 100% year over year to 11.3 million as air-travel demand 
continues to recover in the European Union. Load factor (percentage of seats filled with passengers) in the period 
was 84% compared with 73% in October 2020. The airline operated more than 71,500 flights last month. Ryanair's 
October traffic also shows a sequential improvement of 6.6%.[7] 
We remind investors that Ryanair's top line had improved substantially in second-quarter fiscal 2022 owing to an 
increase in traffic as reported in the previous week's write up[8]. 
Airline Stock Roundup: DAL 's Update on Foreign Travel, RYAAY , AZUL in Focus
4. Owing to the improvement in air-travel demand in Brazil, Azul's domestic traffic for the month of October 
skyrocketed 66% from the year-ago period's number. Capacity expanded 62.4% year over year in response to 
higher demand. With capacity growth outweighing the traffic increase, load factor (percentage of seats filled by 
passengers) moved northward in the month by 1.8 percentage points (p.p.) to 82.5%. Traffic and capacity 
(domestic) increased 6.1% and 8%, respectively, from the October 2019 (pre-pandemic levels) numbers. On the 
international front, traffic and capacity surged 20.4% and 3.1%, respectively, in October 2021 on a year-over-year 
basis. Consequently, load factor increased 11 p.p. to 76.3%. 
5. Southwest Airlines, currently carrying a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), signed an offtake agreement spanning 15 years 
with Velocys for 619 million gallons of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF), to be delivered over a period of 10 years. 
After being blended with conventional jet fuel, the SAF could produce the equivalent of 575 million gallons of net-
zero fuel, thereby avoiding 6.5 million metric tons of carbon dioxide for more than 15 years. This Dallas-based 
carrier intends to start purchasing SAF from Velocys beginning 2026. Additionally, as part of the offtake agreement, 
the companies formed a long-term strategic relationship, under which Southwest Airlines is eligible to purchase 
significant volumes of SAF from the future Velocys facilities. You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 
Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here[9]. Performance The following table shows the price movement of the major airline 
players over the past week and during the last six months. 
Image Source: Zacks Investment Research 
The table above shows that most airline stocks have traded in the green over the past week, leading the NYSE 
ARCA Airline Index to increase 6% to $95.65. The upside was mainly owing to Delta's bullish commentary on 
international bookings. Over the course of the past six months, the NYSE ARCA Airline Index has depreciated 
7.8%. What's Next in the Airline Space? Investors will look forward to the third-quarter 2021 earnings report of Copa 
Holdings CPA[10], scheduled to be released on Nov 17. 
 More Stock News: This Is Bigger than the iPhone! 
 It could become the mother of all technological revolutions. Apple sold a mere 1 billion iPhones in 10 years but a 
new breakthrough is expected to generate more than 77 billion devices by 2025, creating a $1.3 trillion market. 
 Zacks has just released a Special Report that spotlights this fast-emerging phenomenon and 4 tickers for taking 
advantage of it. If you don't buy now, you may kick yourself in 2022. Click here for the 4 trades  > >[11] 
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for 
the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report[12] Ryanair Holdings PLC (RYAAY): Free Stock Analysis Report[13] 
Delta Air Lines, Inc. (DAL): Free Stock Analysis Report[14] Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV): Free Stock Analysis 
Report[15] Copa Holdings, S.A. (CPA): Free Stock Analysis Report[16] Alaska Air Group, Inc. (ALK): Free Stock 
Analysis Report[17] AZUL (AZUL): Free Stock Analysis Report[18] To read this article on Zacks.com click here.[19] 
Zacks Investment Research[20] 
 [ 
1]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/DAL 
[ 
2]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/AZUL 
[ 
3]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/RYAAY 
[ 
4]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/LUV 
[ 
5]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/ALK [ 6]: https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1823452/alaska-air-alk-arm-inks-
codeshare-deal-with-british-airways?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID01-txt-1823452 
[ 
7]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1823514/ryanair-ryaay-posts-strong-october-traffic-statistics?art_rec=quote-
stock_overview-zacks_news-ID02-txt-1823514 
[ 
8]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1822953/airline-stock-
roundup-q3-earnings-results-from-algt-skyw-save-jblu-in-focus?art_rec=quote-stock_overview-zacks_news-ID05-
txt-1822953 
[ 
9]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stocks/buy-list/?ADID=zp_1link&ICID=zpi%20_1link 
[ 
10]: 
https://www.zacks.com/stock/quote/CPA 
[ 
11]: 
https://www.zacks.com/registration/ultimatetrader/welcome/eoffer/4e87?add=1669&adid=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_Z
U_IOTREPORT_ANALYSTBLOG_213_IND_11102021&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-
1826787 
[ 
12]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp/?ALERT=RPT_7BST_LP194&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONTENT_ZER_ARTCAT
_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1826787 
[ 
13]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=RYAAY&ADID=NEWSTEX_CO
Airline Stock Roundup: DAL 's Update on Foreign Travel, RYAAY , AZUL in Focus
NTENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1826787 [ 
14]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=DAL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1826787 
[ 
15]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=LUV&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1826787 
[ 
16]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=CPA&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1826787 
[ 
17]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=ALK&ADID=NEWSTEX_CONT
ENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1826787 
[ 
18]: 
http://www.zacks.com/registration/pfp?ALERT=ZER_LINK&d_alert=ZER_CONF&t=AZUL&ADID=NEWSTEX_CON
TENT_ZER_ARTCAT_ANALYSTBLOG_213&cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1826787 
[ 
19]: http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/1826787/airline-stock-roundup-dal-s-update-on-foreign-travel-ryaay-azul-in-
focus?cid=CS-NEWSTEX-FT-analyst_blog%7Cstock_roundup-1826787 [ 20]: http://www.zacks.com/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 10, 2021
End of Document
Belarus migrant crisis: Germany calls for new EU sanctions
Belarus migrant crisis: Germany calls for new EU sanctions
Newstex Blogs 
Deutsche Welle Germany
November 10, 2021 Wednesday 4:12 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 597 words
Body
Nov 10, 2021( Deutsche Welle Germany: http://www.dw.de/top-stories/germany/s-1432 Delivered by Newstex)  
 German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas has accused Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko of "unscrupulously 
exploiting" the migrants by sending them towards Poland.German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas called for new EU 
sanctions against Belarus on Wednesday amid an escalating migrant crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border. 
Thousands of people are stranded at the EU's eastern border in freezing weather, with Warsaw accusing Russia 
and Belarus of using the migrants to threaten European security. 
What did Germany's foreign minister say? 
Maas said in a statement that Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko is "unscrupulously exploiting" the 
migrants and sending them to the border region. 
"We will sanction all those who participate in the targeted smuggling of migrants," the German foreign minister 
asserted, while adding that the EU will push to "extend and tighten ... sanctions against Lukashenko's regime." 
Any fresh sanctions could target not only countries involved in smuggling the migrants but also airlines that faciliate 
their travel to Europe. 
EU officials accuse Belarus of weaponizing the migrants against the 27-member bloc in retaliation for previous 
sanctions against Minsk. Lukashenko has denied that his government is orchestrating the migrant crisis. 
Maas said the images of the thousands of migrants at the Polish-Belarusian border are "appalling." 
Maas' remarks come after German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer told the Tuesday edition of Germany's Bild 
tabloid that the EU needs to do more to help Poland secure its border. Poland has refused to let the migrants in. 
How has the EU responded so far? 
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen called for "approval of extended sanctions" against Belarus 
on Monday. 
The bloc has previously approved four rounds of sanctions targeting 166 people and 15 entities linked to 
Lukashenko's regime. 
Tensions have been fraught between the EU and Belarus since the state-ordered hijacking of a Ryanair flight over 
Belarusian territory in May. 
The EU has also condemned last year's presidential election in Belarus as neither free nor fair, with Lukashenko 
having declared a landslide victory against opposition candidate Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya.  
wd/nm (AFP, dpa) 
Belarus migrant crisis: Germany calls for new EU sanctions
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 10, 2021
End of Document
Belarus migrant crisis: Germany calls for new EU sanctions
Belarus migrant crisis: Germany calls for new EU sanctions
Newstex Blogs 
Deutsche Welle Europe
November 10, 2021 Wednesday 4:15 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 597 words
Body
Nov 10, 2021( Deutsche Welle Europe: http://www.dw.de/top-stories/europe/s-1433 Delivered by Newstex)  
 German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas has accused Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko of "unscrupulously 
exploiting" the migrants by sending them towards Poland.German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas called for new EU 
sanctions against Belarus on Wednesday amid an escalating migrant crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border. 
Thousands of people are stranded at the EU's eastern border in freezing weather, with Warsaw accusing Russia 
and Belarus of using the migrants to threaten European security. 
What did Germany's foreign minister say? 
Maas said in a statement that Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko is "unscrupulously exploiting" the 
migrants and sending them to the border region. 
"We will sanction all those who participate in the targeted smuggling of migrants," the German foreign minister 
asserted, while adding that the EU will push to "extend and tighten ... sanctions against Lukashenko's regime." 
Any fresh sanctions could target not only countries involved in smuggling the migrants but also airlines that faciliate 
their travel to Europe. 
EU officials accuse Belarus of weaponizing the migrants against the 27-member bloc in retaliation for previous 
sanctions against Minsk. Lukashenko has denied that his government is orchestrating the migrant crisis. 
Maas said the images of the thousands of migrants at the Polish-Belarusian border are "appalling." 
Maas' remarks come after German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer told the Tuesday edition of Germany's Bild 
tabloid that the EU needs to do more to help Poland secure its border. Poland has refused to let the migrants in. 
How has the EU responded so far? 
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen called for "approval of extended sanctions" against Belarus 
on Monday. 
The bloc has previously approved four rounds of sanctions targeting 166 people and 15 entities linked to 
Lukashenko's regime. 
Tensions have been fraught between the EU and Belarus since the state-ordered hijacking of a Ryanair flight over 
Belarusian territory in May. 
The EU has also condemned last year's presidential election in Belarus as neither free nor fair, with Lukashenko 
having declared a landslide victory against opposition candidate Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya.  
wd/nm (AFP, dpa) 
Belarus migrant crisis: Germany calls for new EU sanctions
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 10, 2021
End of Document
Lithuanian Airports celebrate launch of new routes for winter travel season
Lithuanian Airports celebrate launch of new routes for winter travel season
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
November 09, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 723 words
Body
Since the end of October, the number of direct and regular flights at Lithuanian airports has increased. As the 
intensive recovery of the aviation sector continues, it is planned that as many as eleven new destinations will be 
launched from Vilnius and Kaunas airports before the end of the year, while some of the previously existing routes 
are to be renewed in parallel.
According to Aurimas Stikliunas, Head of Aviation Services at Lithuanian Airports, the increasing aircraft occupancy 
and the growing demand for flights prove that the aviation sector is steadily recovering from the pandemic and is 
catching up with the record year.
"This December, airlines will offer regular flights to as many as 78 destinations across the entire network of 
Lithuanian airports (compared to 88 destinations in December 2019). Perhaps the biggest leap in terms of the 
number of destinations has already been demonstrated by Kaunas Airport at the beginning of November, where as 
many as eight new direct destinations were launched. Vilnius Airport will offer direct access to cities such as 
Yerevan and Reykjavik from next month, while a number of previously existing routes will be renewed," he says.
8 new routes from Kaunas Airport
On Saturday-Tuesday, 8 new regular routes were launched to and from Kaunas Airport. Flights to two Spanish 
cities - Madrid and Malaga, a popular resort in the south of the country, as well as Helsinki in Finland and 
Gothenburg in Sweden - started on 31 October.
From Monday, a direct and regular flight from Kaunas Airport will take you to the UK city Manchester and Alborg 
(Denmark). Flights to two popular capitals Stockholm and Budapest started on Tuesday. All these routes are 
offered by "Ryanair".
According to A. Stikliunas, the new destinations from the second largest gateway will significantly improve 
connectivity. The routes are of interest to both business and holiday travellers, as well as emigrant communities 
abroad.
What's new at Vilnius Airport?
Lithuanian Airports celebrate launch of new routes for winter travel season
There will be no shortage of news at the capital's airport, some of which has already started. Flights to Kharkiv, 
Ukraine, started on Saturday, flights to Tel Aviv, Israel, and to Birmingham, UK, started on Tuesday. These routes 
are organised by "Ryanair", which has also launched a regular route to Eindhoven Airport (the Netherlands) from 
the beginning of November.
Direct flights to Liverpool, Belfast and Lviv are scheduled to resume from mid-December. These routes will be 
operated by the airline "Wizz Air".
In addition to the routes to be renewed, the capital's airport will offer new destinations. It is planned that from mid-
December, "Wizz Air" passengers will be able to fly to Yerevan, the capital of Armenia and to Reykjavik. From the 
second half of this month, "Norwegian Air Shuttle" is expected to offer flights to the Norwegian city Bergen, which is 
relevant for Lithuanians.
"As you know, "Wizz Air" and "Ryanair" are the airlines with the largest number of regular passengers in the 
network of Lithuanian airports, and they continue to successfully strengthen their positions. Meanwhile, it gives 
passengers the opportunity to choose from a wider range of destinations that meet their needs, with the reasonable 
expectation that the number of routes on offer will grow steadily over time," says A. Stikliunas.
What to know before the flight?
Lithuanian airports recall that by applying the procedures for checking additional documents and medical 
certificates before the flight, the processes at the airports may take longer than before the pandemic.
Passengers are asked to assess the need for a test time and the result and to add the planned duration of the test 
to the usual time of arrival recommendations accordingly. It is recommended to arrive at the airport more than 2 
hours before the flight.
About Lithuanian Airports
The network of Lithuanian Airports includes three air gateways in Vilnius, Kaunas and Palanga. In 2020, Lithuanian 
Airports handled 1.8 million passengers and 30,000 flights.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
UN Delays Report On Belarus Flight Rerouting To Arrest Journalist
UN Delays Report On Belarus Flight Rerouting To Arrest Journalist
Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
November 9, 2021 Tuesday 3:50 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 530 words
Body
Nov 09, 2021( International Business Times News: http://www.ibtimes.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 UN aviation agency ICAO on Tuesday once again delayed -- until January -- its release and review of probe 
findings into Belarus's diversion of a Ryanair flight in order to detain a journalist onboard. 
The International Civil Aviation Organization launched in May the "fact-finding investigation" into the forced 
grounding of the Athens-to-Vilnius flight carrying dissident Belarus journalist Roman Protasevich and his girlfriend 
Sofia Sapega. 
The pair were arrested when the plane landed in Minsk, provoking a global outcry. 
An interim report had been scheduled to be presented to the ICAO Council -- a governing body made up of 36 
member states -- by the end of June, and a final report submitted in September for review this month. 
In an email to AFP, the Montreal-based agency said: "The ICAO Council has agreed to defer its consideration of 
the Ryanair Flight FR4978 investigation report until its next session, in January 2022." 
 UN aviation agency ICAO is delaying until January 2022 its release of a report on the probe into the diversion of a 
Ryanair flight by Belarus Photo: AFP / PETRAS MALUKAS  
It cited the "volume of data submitted and additional state clarifications still being required." 
On May 23, Belarusian traffic controllers told Ryanair pilots to divert the plane, citing a bomb threat that proved to 
be false and scrambling a military jet to escort the aircraft. 
It was forced to land in Minsk where Protasevich and Sapega were arrested. 
Britain and the European Union responded by telling airlines to avoid Belarusian airspace and banning the ex-
Soviet country's flagship carrier Belavia. 
The regime of Belarusian strongman Alexander Lukashenko, who faces criticism over reported human rights 
crackdowns, has arrested and forced key activists into exile, and banned several media organisations and non-
governmental groups. 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
UN Delays Report On Belarus Flight Rerouting To Arrest Journalist
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 9, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Sold by Northern Trust Corp
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Sold by Northern Trust Corp
American Banking and Market News
November 9, 2021 Tuesday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 578 words
Body
Ryanair Northern Trust Corp cut its holdings in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 18.4% during the 2nd 
quarter, according to its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The 
fund owned 166,285 shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 37,618 shares during the quarter. 
Northern Trust Corp owned approximately 0.07% of Ryanair worth $17,994,000 at the end of the most recent 
quarter.  
Several other hedge funds have also added to or reduced their stakes in the company. WealthShield Partners LLC 
boosted its position in  Ryanair by 638.2% during the second quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 
shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after acquiring an additional 217 shares during the last 
quarter.  Advisory Services Network LLC acquired a new stake in  Ryanair during the second quarter worth 
approximately $46,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. boosted its position in  Ryanair by 532.2% during the 
second quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock 
worth $58,000 after acquiring an additional 463 shares during the last quarter.  PNC Managed Account Solutions 
Inc. acquired a new stake in  Ryanair during the second quarter worth approximately $79,000.  Finally, Captrust 
Financial Advisors boosted its position in  Ryanair by 47.8% during the first quarter. Captrust Financial Advisors 
now owns 1,524 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $175,000 after acquiring an additional 493 
shares during the last quarter. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
A number of equities analysts have weighed in on RYAAY shares. Redburn Partners raised shares of Ryanair from 
a "neutral" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 price target on the stock in a research note on Tuesday, July 
27th. Sanford C. Bernstein downgraded shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating 
in a research note on Monday. Credit Suisse Group  reaffirmed an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research note on Friday, September 17th. UBS Group  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Finally, Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  reaffirmed a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Four investment analysts have rated the stock 
with a hold rating and thirteen have issued  a buy rating to the company. According to MarketBeat.com, the 
company  has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.48. 
Shares of RYAAY stock  opened at $126.12 on Tuesday. The company's fifty day simple moving average is 
$112.49 and its 200-day simple moving average is $111.50. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 52 week low of $94.68 and 
a 52 week high of $127.25. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.24 and a debt-to-equity ratio 
of 0.96. The company has a market cap of $28.47 billion, a PE ratio of -35.83 and a beta of 1.56.  
Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Sold by Northern Trust Corp
Ryanair Profile
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: Why is the price-sales ratio important?  
Load-Date: November 9, 2021
End of Document
UN delays report on Belarus flight rerouting to arrest journalist
UN delays report on Belarus flight rerouting to arrest journalist
Newstex Blogs 
Digital Journal
November 9, 2021 Tuesday 3:07 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 762 words
Byline: AFP
Body
Nov 09, 2021( Digital Journal: http://www.digitaljournal.com Delivered by Newstex)  
 UN aviation agency ICAO on Tuesday once again delayed — until January — its release and review of probe 
findings into Belarus's diversion of a Ryanair flight in order to detain a journalist onboard. 
 The International Civil Aviation Organization launched in May the 'fact-finding investigation' into the forced 
grounding of the Athens-to-Vilnius flight carrying dissident Belarus journalist Roman Protasevich and his girlfriend 
Sofia Sapega. 
 The pair were arrested when the plane landed in Minsk, provoking a global outcry. 
 An interim report had been scheduled to be presented to the ICAO Council — a governing body made up of 36 
member states — by the end of June, and a final report submitted in September for review this month. 
 In an email to AFP, the Montreal-based agency said: 'The ICAO Council has agreed to defer its consideration of 
the Ryanair Flight FR4978 investigation report until its next session, in January 2022.' 
 It cited the 'volume of data submitted and additional state clarifications still being required.' 
 On May 23, Belarusian traffic controllers told Ryanair pilots to divert the plane, citing a bomb threat that proved to 
be false and scrambling a military jet to escort the aircraft. 
 It was forced to land in Minsk where Protasevich and Sapega were arrested. 
 Britain and the European Union responded by telling airlines to avoid Belarusian airspace and banning the ex-
Soviet country's flagship carrier Belavia. 
 The regime of Belarusian strongman Alexander Lukashenko, who faces criticism over reported human rights 
crackdowns, has arrested and forced key activists into exile, and banned several media organisations and non-
governmental groups. 
 https://www.addtoany.com/add_to/facebook?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworld%2Fun-
delays-report-on-belarus-flight-rerouting-to-arrest-
journalist%2Farticle&linkname=UN%20delays%20report%20on%20Belarus%20flight%20rerouting%20to%20arrest
%20journalisthttps://www.addtoany.com/add_to/twitter?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworld
%2Fun-delays-report-on-belarus-flight-rerouting-to-arrest-
journalist%2Farticle&linkname=UN%20delays%20report%20on%20Belarus%20flight%20rerouting%20to%20arrest
%20journalisthttps://www.addtoany.com/add_to/linkedin?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworl
d%2Fun-delays-report-on-belarus-flight-rerouting-to-arrest-
UN delays report on Belarus flight rerouting to arrest journalist
journalist%2Farticle&linkname=UN%20delays%20report%20on%20Belarus%20flight%20rerouting%20to%20arrest
%20journalisthttps://www.addtoany.com/add_to/email?linkurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworld
%2Fun-delays-report-on-belarus-flight-rerouting-to-arrest-
journalist%2Farticle&linkname=UN%20delays%20report%20on%20Belarus%20flight%20rerouting%20to%20arrest
%20journalisthttps://www.addtoany.com/share#url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.digitaljournal.com%2Fworld%2Fun-
delays-report-on-belarus-flight-rerouting-to-arrest-
journalist%2Farticle&title=UN%20delays%20report%20on%20Belarus%20flight%20rerouting%20to%20arrest%20j
ournalist 
The post UN delays report on Belarus flight rerouting to arrest journalist[1] appeared first on Digital Journal[2]. 
 [ 1]: https://www.digitaljournal.com/world/un-delays-report-on-belarus-flight-rerouting-to-arrest-journalist/article [ 2]: 
https://www.digitaljournal.com 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 9, 2021
End of Document
EU Condemns Belarus for Aiding Migrant Surge
EU Condemns Belarus for Aiding Migrant Surge
Newstex Blogs 
Foreign Policy
November 9, 2021 Tuesday 7:50 AM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1634 words
Byline: Colm Quinn
Body
Nov 09, 2021( Foreign Policy: http://www.foreignpolicy.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Here is today's Foreign Policy brief: Hundreds of migrants camp on Belarus's border with Poland, former Georgian 
President Mikheil Saakashvili sent to prison hospital, and U.S. and African Union envoys to discuss Ethiopia crisis. 
 If you would like to receive Morning Brief in your inbox every weekday, please sign uphere[1]. 
Poland Prepares For Migrants Sent By Belarus Here is today's Foreign Policy brief: Hundreds of migrants camp on 
Belarus's border with Poland, former Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili sent to prison hospital, and U.S. and 
African Union envoys to discuss Ethiopia crisis. 
 If you would like to receive Morning Brief in your inbox every weekday, please sign uphere[2]. 
 Poland Prepares For Migrants Sent By Belarus 
Poland has accused[3] Belarus of 'deliberate escalation of tension' as it blamed the government of President 
Aleksandr Lukashenko for intentionally facilitating an increase in the number of migrants attempting to cross into EU 
territory from its eastern neighbor. 
 The European Commission joined in the condemnation, with spokesperson for migration Adalbert Jahnz calling the 
crossings a 'continuation of the desperate attempt by the Lukashenko regime to use people as pawns to destabilize 
the European Union and of course, the values that we stand for.' 
 Lukashenko's government is accused of enticing migrants from Iraq and surrounding countries with the promise of 
swift passage to the European Union through its borders with Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland. 
 Reports from the Lithuanian border suggest Belarusian security forces have aided the passage, even crossing 
into[4] EU territory at times. Independent reporting from the Polish border is harder to come by, as authorities have 
now banned civilians, including journalists, from coming within 1.8 miles. Foreign Policy published a dispatch[5] 
from the area in September by Polish journalist Tomasz Grzywaczewski, who noted that 'as authoritarian regimes 
seek to sow internal discord and chaos in Poland and the Baltics, their weapon of choice is helpless human beings.' 
 The crisis marks a further deterioration in EU relations with Belarus after the bloc imposed sanctions following the 
country's fraudulent presidential election in 2020 and its forced diversion of a Ryanair jet over the summer to arrest 
a dissident. 
EU Condemns Belarus for Aiding Migrant Surge
 Those EU states bordering Belarus have been quick to take security measures to keep the migrants out. Poland 
has almost doubled the number of security personnel on its border, while Lithuania has begun building a 316-mile 
border fence to deter unwanted incursions. 
 As well as coming up against barbed wire and armed guards, the migrants must now contend with harsh winter 
conditions. At least ten migrants are reported to have died since the crossings increased this summer. 
 And while descriptions of the situation as a form of 'hybrid war' risk hyperbole, the possibility of actual conflict isn't 
far away, with armed forces from both the Polish and Belarusian governments within firing range. 
 One group that is not present on Poland's border is Frontex, the EU border authority. Poland has so far resisted 
calls to allow the agency to provide assistance, unlike Lithuania and Latvia. The decision to go it alone has been 
criticized[6], not least because it allows Polish forces to act without oversight. 
 The Ocalenie Foundation, a Polish group working with the migrants, has accused Polish authorities of 'inhumane 
tactics' highlighting its policy of pushing back the migrants and refusing asylum requests as going against 
international law, a practice UNHCR has also condemned[7]. As the U.S. decision to expel[8] Haitian migrants in 
September showed, those pushback techniques are not solely used by Poland. 
 Even though each country could easily absorb the relatively small number of migrants, their political symbolism in 
Poland, which is ruled by the right-wing Law and Justice party, makes welcoming them a nonstarter. Still, attitudes 
in Poland are slowly changing. A Gallup survey found that the number of respondents seeing migrants in their 
country as a good thing jumped[9] from 28 percent to 42 percent from 2016 to 2019. 
 Recent EU solutions to migration do not inspire confidence in a humane and orderly resolution, and as the EU 
approach to Turkey and Libya showed, solutions often tend to involve throwing money at the problem. In the short-
term, more sanctions[10] seems to be the most likely choice for EU leaders, with European Commission President 
Ursula von der Leyen urging Brussels to tackle one shallow root cause of the recent surge: the airlines that send 
the migrants to Belarus in the first place. 
 What We're Following Today 
Ethiopia's war. Speaking to the U.N. Security Council on Monday, Olusegun Obasanjo, the African Union's Horn of 
Africa envoy said he hoped[11] to have a program finalized by the end of the week that would satisfy demands for 
troop withdrawals and humanitarian access by all sides in Ethiopia's civil war. 
 Obasanjo said his recent discussions with Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed as well as leaders from the Tigray and 
Oromo regions confirmed that all 'agree individually that the differences between them are political and require 
political solution through dialogue.' 
 The former Nigerian president visits Amhara and Afar regions today before holding talks with his U.S. counterpart 
Jeffrey Feltmanin Addis Ababa as both men push for a cease-fire. 
 Saakashvili sent to hospital. Former Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili has been transferred to a prison 
hospital in the Georgian city of Rustavi as he continues a hunger strike. Saakashvili began the extreme action after 
he was detained following his return to the country in October to support the opposition in local elections. As FP's 
Amy Mackinnon reports[12], Saakashvili's fate could be 'the most profound signal yet about where the country is 
heading,' amid fears of a democratic backslide. 
Keep an Eye On 
Build Back in 2022. The United States plans to make its first investment[13] in overseas infrastructure projects as 
part of the G-7's Build Back Better World (B3W) initiative in January, the White House said on Monday, as rich 
countries seek to catch up with China's Belt and Road initiative. Although the funding recipients have not been 
named, recent 'listening tours' to Colombia, Ecuador, Panama, Senegal, and Ghana by U.S. Deputy National 
Security Advisor Daleep Singh provide a hint. 
 Odds and Ends  
Even though the Atlantic Ocean's circulation is at its weakest in a thousand years[14], the currents linking North 
America to Europe are still flowing. Proof of that showed up on a beach on Ireland's west coast on Monday, when a 
EU Condemns Belarus for Aiding Migrant Surge
trash can belonging to the City of Myrtle Beach in South Carolina 3,500 miles away washed up. City officials 
said[15] the receptacle likely began its voyage during high winds or a storm event and has encouraged recycling 
rather than returning it. 
 [ 1]: http://foreignpolicy.com/category/morning-brief [ 2]: http://foreignpolicy.com/category/morning-brief [ 3]: 
https://www.euronews.com/2021/11/08/poland-sends-additional-police-to-belarus-border-over-migrant-influx [ 4]: 
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-58255448 
[ 
5]: 
https://foreignpolicy.com/2021/09/18/russia-belarus-
poland-lithuiania-migrants-eu-weapon/ [ 6]: https://www.politico.eu/article/poland-frontex-belarus-border-migration-
crisis/ [ 7]: https://www.unhcr.org/en-us/news/press/2021/9/6149dec74/unhcr-iom-shocked-dismayed-deaths-near-
belarus-poland-border.html [ 8]: https://foreignpolicy.com/2021/09/22/biden-haiti-trump-title42-deportation-refugee-
texas/ [ 9]: https://notesfrompoland.com/2020/09/23/poland-has-among-biggest-increases-in-public-acceptance-of-
migrants-finds-international-poll/ [ 10]: https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/statement_21_5867 [ 
11]: 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/au-envoy-sees-short-window-of-opportunity-on-ethiopia-
war/2021/11/08/d23186c8-40e7-11ec-9404-
50a28a88b9cd_story.html?utm_source=feedly&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=wp_world 
[ 
12]: 
https://foreignpolicy.com/2021/11/05/georgia-mikheil-saakashvili-hunger-strike-prison-georgian-dream-unm/ [ 13]: 
https://www.reuters.com/world/us-eyes-january-rollout-first-projects-counter-chinas-belt-road-official-2021-11-08/ 
[ 
14]: 
https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/feb/25/atlantic-ocean-circulation-at-weakest-in-a-millennium-
say-scientists [ 15]: https://cms6.revize.com/revize/myrtlebeachsc/news_detail_T6_R1460.php 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 9, 2021
End of Document
Welcome to W21 at NUE - here comes our Lifeline 2.0 support
Welcome to W21 at NUE - here comes our Lifeline 2.0 support
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
November 09, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 127 words
Body
Now, as everybody has just switched to the winter schedule, NUE is happy to see some new routes: BLQ with 
Ryanair, ORY with Vueling and FNC as well as ACE with Corendon Airlines.
Nevertheless, the pandemic is still leading to some uncertainties about this winter. For the airline's support, NUE 
airport has decided to roll out the Blue Ocean Lifeline 2.0 incentive programme, which has been valid since last 
week already.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair to launch 30 new routes from East Midlands Airport
Ryanair to launch 30 new routes from East Midlands Airport
City A.M.
November 9, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 140 words
Byline: MICHIEL WILLEMS
Body
RYANAIR said it will operate 130 weekly flights across 31 European destinations from East Midlands Airport from 
April next year.
This launch will turn the regional airfield into one of its main UK hubs.
Ryanair's director of commercial, Jason McGuinness, said he was "delighted" to have extended the airline's long-
term partnership with East Midlands.
Destinations include Alicante,
Barcelona, Lanzarote, Malaga, Mallorca, Rhodes and Tenerife.
The new routes follow comments by Michael O'Leary, the outspoken boss of the budget carrier, who said the airline 
was mulling a delisting from the London Stock Exchange.
Some 39.1m passengers flew with Ryanair in the six months to September, 54 per cent fewer than in the 
comparable pre-pandemic period.
The airline reported its first quarterly profit since the start of the pandemic earlier this month.
Graphic
 
Ryanair to launch 30 new routes from East Midlands Airport
Destinations include Alicante, Barcelona, Lanzarote, Malaga, Rhodes and Tenerife
Load-Date: November 9, 2021
End of Document
Athens calling: UK airlines to boost flights for Greece summer boom
Athens calling: UK airlines to boost flights for Greece summer boom
City A.M.
November 9, 2021 Tuesday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 City A.M. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 144 words
Byline: ILARIA GRASSO MACOLA
Body
UK AIRLINES are increasing the number of flights to Greece in preparation for next summer's boom in tourism, the 
Financial Times reported.
Carriers are ramping up their prepandemic capacity, with Jet2 adding 1m seats compared to 2019's capacity and 
EasyJet increasing its tickets by 500,000.
"Having met most of the tour operators and airline companies here in the UK, we are very, very optimistic about 
2022," Greece's tourism minister Vassilis Kikilias told the Financial Times.
According to the Kikilias, the Greek Government is expecting that 35 per cent more UK tourists will visit the country 
next summer, and it has already started working on deals with airlines to secure airport slots in exchange for 
guarantee of flight.
Faith in the recovery of foreign travel is widespread, with companies such as Ryanair announcing the launch of 500 
routes for summer 2022.
Graphic
 
Faith in foreign travel is widespread as Ryanair announces the launch of 500 routes
Athens calling: UK airlines to boost flights for Greece summer boom
Load-Date: November 9, 2021
End of Document
Seven ways to spot businesses greenwashing
Seven ways to spot businesses greenwashing
Newstex Blogs 
Business Matters
November 9, 2021 Tuesday 12:06 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1358 words
Byline: Business Matters
Body
Nov 09, 2021( Business Matters: http://www.bmmagazine.co.uk/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Most of us are trying to be greener and for some that means seeking out brands and companies that are 
environmentally-friendly. But how can you check firms really are as green as they make out? 
Greenwashing - branding something as eco-friendly, green or sustainable when this is not the case - misleads 
consumers into thinking they are helping the planet by choosing those products. 
 And businesses are being held to account on this in the way they advertise. But what do customers need to look 
out for to spot greenwashing? 
False claims or vague language 
The Advertising Standards Agency says this is the area it receives the most complaints about. And some firms have 
already had adverts banned. 
In 2019, the advertising regulator banned a Ryanair ad claiming it was the airline with Europe's lowest emissions 
without sufficient evidence to support the claim. And a Hyundai advert, claiming a car 'cleaned the air', was also 
judged by the ASA to be misleading. 
 Ingredients in a product being described as 'natural', 'organic' or 'eco-friendly', when only some of the ingredients 
can be described as this, can also fall into this category. 
 Sue Davies, head of Consumer Protection Policy at Which? says, in general, customers should try to find a 
secondary, authoritative source of information to back up manufacturers' claims. 
 'Think about the bigger picture. For example, can environmental claims made on a single-use plastic water bottle 
be taken seriously?' 
Images of nature or 'green' buzzwords 
Phrases such as 'eco', 'sustainable' and 'green' are commonly used by companies to make the business appear 
environmentally conscious - but they rarely pertain to any scientific standards. 
 A website for HDS Group's Amazing Cleaners, seen in July 2016, featured the claim '100% eco-friendly'. A 
complaint was upheld after it was found the statement was made without any evidence or explanation. 
 And an advert for Alpro Almond milk was also banned for a misleading environmental claim. The ad said the milk 
was 'good for the planet', branding it: 'Your recipe to a healthier planet.' Alpro said customers would understand the 
ad's slogan referred to plant-based products having a lower environmental impact. 
Seven ways to spot businesses greenwashing
 But while the ASA said it understood the almonds used by Alpro were not sourced from areas where production 
could have a negative environmental impact, such claims must be clearer. 
Hiding information 
Fashion brands may promote clothes made of 'sustainable' fabrics, even if the rest of their clothing line is damaging 
to the environment. 
 For example, a firm could claim to be environmentally-friendly, but not take into account supply-chain emissions 
from a coal-powered overseas factory used to make part of a product. 
 Other industries have fallen foul of this. As far back as 2007, the ASA ruled against Shell for an ad implying it used 
waste carbon dioxide to grow plants, when the regulator actually found the quantity used was only a small fraction 
of its emissions. 
 In another example, Edward Bulmer claimed its paint was 'the most eco-friendly paint on the market', but failed to 
highlight the fact it contained various ingredients that were not environmentally-friendly. 
Look out for carbon offsetting 
A government, business or individual can attempt to balance their own emissions by finding other ways to remove 
an equivalent amount of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. The process is called carbon offsetting. 
 But environmental groups argue this is kicking the problem into the long grass rather than dealing with the issue of 
actually cutting emissions. 
 David Barmes, senior economist at the campaign group Positive Money, says offsetting is the most popular form of 
greenwashing. 
 'It's riddled with fraud and allows firms to claim they're meeting emissions targets while they continuously pump 
emissions into the air.' He adds: 'The whole point of offsets is to allow these corporations to keep emitting with 
impunity and allow governments to claim they are meeting targets.' 
Check company ownership 
Larger firms, or conglomerations, with a high environmental impact have often bought smaller brands to target 
environmentally conscious customers who otherwise might not have chosen to spend with them. So knowing what, 
or who, the ultimate owner of a firm is could be important if you want to find out their entire environmental impact. 
 Accountability and authenticity, Prof Eccles says, are serious problems. An entire businesses' carbon emissions, 
he says, should be like calorie labels on a product, where 'everyone pays attention to them, they are certified 
independently and they influence consumer decisions'. 
 Professor Kimberly Nicholas, senior lecturer in sustainability at Lund University, in Sweden, told the BBC that the 
most effective action is for companies to commit to eliminating fossil fuels from each part of their supply chains: 
'Customers need to direct their money away from all firms that are producing or connected to financing fossil fuels.' 
She said: 'Without this action is useless.' 
Eco-friendly products in a wider range 
Some firms will market environmentally beneficial products, but will omit information about the impact of their other 
products. 
 Food company Quorn had an ad banned which involved the way carbon was certified for one of their products. 
ASA said the advert did not clarify what the claimed reduction of the carbon footprint was being measured against, 
and viewers would therefore not know what the basis of the reduction was. 
 Ms Davies, from Which?, says a lack of transparency is a key indicator that the company doesn't have a wholly 
positive environmental impact. 'If you're struggling to find environmental information about a product, brand or 
service, take that as a warning sign.' 
 'Companies that have something to hide - or no good stories to tell - often make it harder for consumers to check 
out their eco credentials,' she adds. 
Food company Gousto was found to have made false claims that its packaging was '100% plastic free and 
recyclable' last year Is the product and its packaging recyclable? 
The 'recyclable' label on some plastic items can be used for products that are not easy to recycle. 
 In 2018, McDonald's announced it was going to get rid of single-use plastic straws in its restaurants, and offer 
paper straws instead. But the following year, it was accused of greenwashing when it was revealed the straws 
weren't actually recyclable. 
 In 2019, the ASA said Ancol Pet Products was misleading customers by advertising dog waste bags as 
biodegradable after it was found that they would not biodegrade in their most likely destination of landfill or 
incineration. 
Seven ways to spot businesses greenwashing
 Read more:  
Seven ways to spot businesses greenwashing[1] 
 [ 1]: https://bmmagazine.co.uk/in-business/advice/seven-ways-to-spot-businesses-greenwashing/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Load-Date: November 9, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Hits New 52-Week High at $18.59
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Hits New 52-Week High at $18.59
American Banking and Market News
November 8, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 218 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (LON:RYA) shares hit a new 52-week high during mid-day trading on Monday . The 
stock traded as high as GBX 18.59 ($0.24) and last traded at GBX 17.98 ($0.23), with a volume of 480656 shares 
trading hands. The stock had previously closed at GBX 18.11 ($0.24). 
Separately, Liberum Capital  reiterated a "hold" rating and set a GBX 1,700 ($22.21) price objective on shares of 
Ryanair in a research note on Monday, July 26th. 
The business has a fifty day moving average price of GBX 16.57 and a 200-day moving average price of GBX 
16.44. The company has a current ratio of 1.24, a quick ratio of 1.11 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 127.94. The stock 
has a market capitalization of £202.97 million and a PE ratio of -18.27.  
Ryanair Company Profile (LON:RYA ) 
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Germany, and Other European countries. It is also involved in the provision of various 
ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and internet-related services; in-flight sale of beverages, 
food, and merchandise; and marketing accommodation and hotel services, car hire, and travel insurance through its 
Website and mobile app. 
See Also: How Buying a Call Option Works 
Load-Date: November 8, 2021
End of Document
easyJet to resume German domestic ops in late 4Q21
easyJet to resume German domestic ops in late 4Q21
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
November 08, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 366 words
Body
easyJet Europe (EC, Vienna) is set to re-enter the German domestic market on December 1, 2021, when it will 
launch 12x weekly services between Cologne/Bonn and Berlin Brandenburg Int'l, ch-aviation schedule analysis has 
revealed.
The low-cost carrier will operate the route 12x weekly using a mix of A319-100s and A320-200s.
easyJet entered Germany on a large scale in the wake of the bankruptcy of Air Berlin, when it acquired the defunct 
carrier's slots at Berlin Tegel, together with twenty-five A320 Family aircraft leases for approximately EUR40 million 
(USD46.5 million at that time). It launched domestic and international operations out of Berlin Tegel in January 2018 
while also maintaining its legacy international base at Berlin Schönefeld. However, the LCC announced that it would 
discontinue all of its domestic German flights in mid-2020, amidst the COVID-induced drop in demand. It also said 
at that time that it would halve the number of aircraft based out of Berlin.
As such, the restarted route to Cologne will be easyJet's first domestic service operated out of Berlin Brandenburg 
Int'l, considering that the airline suspended German domestic operations before the opening of the new airport.
Despite the downsizing of its Berlin operations, easyJet, with its Austrian and Swiss units, is seventh in terms of 
weekly scheduled market share out of the country with 2.3%. Excluding domestic flights, easyJet's share is 2.9%. In 
turn, the LCC group's market share in Berlin is 17.3%, second only to Ryanair, the ch-aviation capacities module 
shows.
The German domestic market is currently dominated by Lufthansa and Eurowings, which have a 98.1% market 
share by weekly scheduled capacity. Other carriers with minor presences in the passenger market are DAT, Lübeck 
Air, FLN - Die Inselflieger, AIS Airlines (Netherlands), and Rhein-Neckar Air.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
easyJet to resume German domestic ops in late 4Q21
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $123.86
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $123.86
American Banking and Market News
November 8, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 528 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) shares gapped down before the market opened on Monday . The 
stock had previously closed at $123.86, but opened at $121.26. Ryanair shares last traded at $122.82, with a 
volume of 735 shares traded.  
A number of research firms have issued reports on RYAAY. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reissued a "neutral" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research report on Monday, October 25th. Redburn Partners raised shares of Ryanair from a 
"neutral" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 price objective on the stock in a research note on Tuesday, July 
27th. Credit Suisse Group  reaffirmed an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, 
September 17th. Sanford C. Bernstein cut shares of Ryanair from an "outperform" rating to a "market perform" 
rating in a research note on Monday. Finally, Raymond James raised their price objective on shares of Ryanair from 
$135.00 to $140.00 and gave the stock an "outperform" rating in a research note on Thursday, October 7th. Four 
analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued  a buy rating to the stock. Based on data 
from MarketBeat, Ryanair presently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of $122.48. 
The business has a fifty day simple moving average of $112.12 and a two-hundred day simple moving average of 
$111.37. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.24 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. The 
company has a market cap of $28.36 billion, a PE ratio of -35.73 and a beta of 1.56.  
Several hedge funds and other institutional investors have recently bought and sold shares of RYAAY. 
WealthShield Partners LLC raised its holdings in shares of  Ryanair by 638.2% during the 2nd quarter. 
WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after 
acquiring an additional 217 shares during the period.  Advisory Services Network LLC purchased a new stake in  
Ryanair in the 2nd quarter valued at about $46,000.  Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. raised its holdings in  
Ryanair by 532.2% in the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after buying an additional 463 shares during the period.  PNC 
Managed Account Solutions Inc. purchased a new stake in  Ryanair in the 2nd quarter valued at about $79,000.  
Finally, Captrust Financial Advisors raised its holdings in  Ryanair by 47.8% in the 1st quarter. Captrust Financial 
Advisors now owns 1,524 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $175,000 after buying an 
additional 493 shares during the period. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.91% of the company's 
stock.  
About Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY ) 
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Shares Gap Down to $123.86
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: What is the strike price in options trading?  
Load-Date: November 8, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Downgraded by Sanford C. Bernstein to Market Perform
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Downgraded by Sanford C. Bernstein to Market 
Perform
American Banking and Market News
November 8, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 526 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by stock analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report issued on Monday, The Fly  reports. 
A number of other analysts also recently commented on the company. Evercore ISI upgraded Ryanair from an "in-
line" rating to an "outperform" rating and upped their target price for the stock from $120.00 to $150.00 in a 
research note on Monday, July 12th. Morgan Stanley  reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Peel Hunt raised Ryanair from a "hold" rating to a "buy" rating in a report on 
Friday, September 17th. JPMorgan Chase & Co.  reissued a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on 
Monday, October 25th. Finally, Barclays  reissued an "overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on 
Tuesday, November 2nd. Four research analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have given a 
buy rating to the stock. Based on data from MarketBeat, Ryanair currently has an average rating of "Buy" and a 
consensus price target of $122.48. 
Ryanair stock  opened at $123.86 on Monday. The company has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96, a quick ratio of 1.24 
and a current ratio of 1.34. The business's 50-day simple moving average is $112.12 and its two-hundred day 
simple moving average is $111.37. The company has a market cap of $27.96 billion, a PE ratio of -35.19 and a beta 
of 1.56. Ryanair has a fifty-two week low of $86.91 and a fifty-two week high of $124.54.  
Several institutional investors and hedge funds have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the company. 
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 7.1% during the third quarter. Daiwa 
Securities Group Inc. now owns 14,216 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $1,565,000 after buying 
an additional 946 shares during the period.  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. boosted its position in shares of  
Ryanair by 106.8% during the third quarter. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. now owns 1,729 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $192,000 after buying an additional 893 shares during the period.  Pendal 
Group Ltd purchased a new position in shares of  Ryanair during the third quarter worth $30,945,000.  Exencial 
Wealth Advisors LLC purchased a new position in shares of  Ryanair during the third quarter worth $961,000.  
Finally, Deutsche Bank AG boosted its position in shares of  Ryanair by 4,603.4% during the third quarter. 
Deutsche Bank AG now owns 4,092 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $450,000 after buying an 
additional 4,005 shares during the period. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  43.91% of the company's 
stock.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Downgraded by Sanford C. Bernstein to Market Perform
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: What is a Candlestick Chart? 
Load-Date: November 8, 2021
End of Document
UBS Asset Management Americas Inc. Cuts Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
UBS Asset Management Americas Inc. Cuts Position in Ryanair Holdings plc 
(NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
November 8, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 611 words
Body
Ryanair UBS Asset Management Americas Inc. cut its stake in  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) by 9.5% in 
the 2nd quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the SEC. The institutional investor  owned 147,109 
shares of the transportation company's stock after selling 15,487 shares during the period. UBS Asset Management 
Americas Inc. owned about 0.07% of Ryanair worth $15,919,000 as of its most recent SEC filing.  
A number of other large investors also recently made changes to their positions in RYAAY. Optiver Holding B.V. 
purchased a new position in  Ryanair in the first quarter worth $13,878,000.  Putnam Investments LLC lifted its 
stake in  Ryanair by 240.8% in the first quarter. Putnam Investments LLC now owns 444,425 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $51,109,000 after purchasing an additional 314,025 shares during the last 
quarter.  Lazard Asset Management LLC lifted its stake in  Ryanair by 6.3% in the second quarter. Lazard Asset 
Management LLC now owns 5,001,981 shares of the transportation company's stock worth $541,264,000 after 
purchasing an additional 296,366 shares during the last quarter.  Capital International Investors lifted its stake in  
Ryanair by 3.1% in the second quarter. Capital International Investors now owns 9,862,764 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $1,067,172,000 after purchasing an additional 294,131 shares during the last 
quarter.  Finally, William Blair Investment Management LLC lifted its stake in  Ryanair by 14.3% in the second 
quarter. William Blair Investment Management LLC now owns 2,253,753 shares of the transportation company's 
stock worth $243,862,000 after purchasing an additional 281,774 shares during the last quarter. Institutional 
investors own  43.91% of the company's stock.  
Several analysts have weighed in on the stock. Raymond James boosted their price target on shares of Ryanair 
from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the stock an "outperform" rating in a research note on Thursday, October 7th. 
Evercore ISI raised shares of Ryanair from an "in-line" rating to an "outperform" rating and boosted their price target 
for the stock from $120.00 to $150.00 in a research note on Monday, July 12th. Morgan Stanley  reissued an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a research note on Tuesday, November 2nd. Redburn Partners raised 
shares of Ryanair from a "neutral" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 price objective for the company in a 
research note on Tuesday, July 27th. Finally, Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft  reaffirmed a "buy" rating on 
shares of Ryanair in a research note on Friday, September 17th. Three investment analysts have rated the stock 
with a hold rating and thirteen have assigned  a buy rating to the stock. According to data from MarketBeat, the 
company presently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus price target of $122.48. 
UBS Asset Management Americas Inc. Cuts Position in Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
RYAAY stock  opened at $123.86 on Monday. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 1 year low of $86.91 and a 1 year high of 
$124.54. The company has a market cap of $27.96 billion, a P/E ratio of -35.19 and a beta of 1.56. The firm has a 
50-day moving average of $112.12 and a 200 day moving average of $111.37. The company has a debt-to-equity 
ratio of 0.96, a current ratio of 1.34 and a quick ratio of 1.24.  
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Read More: What is a management fee? 
Load-Date: November 8, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Downgraded by Sanford C. Bernstein
Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) Downgraded by Sanford C. Bernstein
American Banking and Market News
November 8, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 663 words
Body
Ryanair Ryanair (NASDAQ:RYAAY) was downgraded by research analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein from an 
"outperform" rating to a "market perform" rating in a research report issued on Monday, The Fly  reports. 
•
Airline Stocks - Top Airline Stocks to Buy Now 
Several other equities analysts also recently weighed in on the stock. Raymond James increased their price target 
on shares of Ryanair from $135.00 to $140.00 and gave the stock an "outperform" rating in a report on Thursday, 
October 7th. Evercore ISI upgraded shares of Ryanair from an "in-line" rating to an "outperform" rating and 
increased their price target for the stock from $120.00 to $150.00 in a report on Monday, July 12th. Deutsche Bank 
Aktiengesellschaft  reiterated a "buy" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Friday, September 17th. Redburn 
Partners upgraded shares of Ryanair from a "neutral" rating to a "buy" rating and set a $108.24 price target on the 
stock in a report on Tuesday, July 27th. Finally, UBS Group  reaffirmed a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a 
research note on Tuesday, September 28th. Four analysts have rated the stock with a hold rating and thirteen have 
issued  a buy rating to the company's stock. According to data from MarketBeat.com, the company presently has a 
consensus rating of "Buy" and an average target price of $122.48. 
Shares of Ryanair stock  opened at $123.86 on Monday. The firm has a market capitalization of $27.96 billion, a 
P/E ratio of -35.19 and a beta of 1.56. The company has a quick ratio of 1.24, a current ratio of 1.34 and a debt-to-
equity ratio of 0.96. The company has a 50 day moving average price of $112.12 and a 200 day moving average 
price of $111.37. Ryanair has a 52 week low of $86.91 and a 52 week high of $124.54.  
A number of institutional investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the stock. Profund Advisors 
LLC grew its stake in  Ryanair by 2.7% in the 2nd quarter. Profund Advisors LLC now owns 4,488 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $486,000 after acquiring an additional 117 shares during the period.  
Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC lifted its holdings in  Ryanair by 1.2% in the 2nd 
quarter. Northwestern Mutual Investment Management Company LLC now owns 12,181 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $1,318,000 after purchasing an additional 144 shares in the last quarter.  
Atria Investments LLC lifted its holdings in  Ryanair by 1.0% in the 2nd quarter. Atria Investments LLC now owns 
14,744 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $1,595,000 after purchasing an additional 148 
shares in the last quarter.  M&T Bank Corp lifted its holdings in  Ryanair by 5.3% in the 3rd quarter. M&T Bank Corp 
now owns 3,115 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $343,000 after purchasing an additional 
156 shares in the last quarter.  Finally, Private Advisor Group LLC lifted its holdings in  Ryanair by 6.9% in the 2nd 
quarter. Private Advisor Group LLC now owns 2,535 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at 
$274,000 after purchasing an additional 163 shares in the last quarter. 43.91% of the stock is currently owned by 
hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Ryanair ( NASDAQ :RYAAY) Downgraded by Sanford C. Bernstein
About Ryanair
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Recommended Story: How to interpret the current ratio 
This instant news alert was generated by narrative science technology and financial data from MarketBeat in order 
to provide readers with the fastest and most accurate reporting. This story was reviewed by MarketBeat's editorial 
team prior to publication. Please send any questions or comments about this story to contact@marketbeat.com
Load-Date: November 8, 2021
End of Document
Amundi Buys Shares of 9,490 Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Amundi Buys Shares of 9,490 Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY)
American Banking and Market News
November 8, 2021 Monday
Copyright 2021 American Banking and Market News All Rights Reserved
Length: 556 words
Body
Ryanair Amundi bought a new stake in shares of  Ryanair Holdings plc (NASDAQ:RYAAY) during the second 
quarter, according to the company in its most recent Form 13F filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The firm bought 9,490 shares of the transportation company's stock, valued at approximately $1,026,000.  
Other institutional investors have also recently modified their holdings of the company. WealthShield Partners LLC 
boosted its stake in  Ryanair by 638.2% in the 2nd quarter. WealthShield Partners LLC now owns 251 shares of the 
transportation company's stock worth $27,000 after purchasing an additional 217 shares in the last quarter.  
Advisory Services Network LLC acquired a new stake in  Ryanair in the 2nd quarter worth approximately $46,000.  
Rockefeller Capital Management L.P. lifted its stake in  Ryanair by 532.2% during the 2nd quarter. Rockefeller 
Capital Management L.P. now owns 550 shares of the transportation company's stock valued at $58,000 after 
acquiring an additional 463 shares during the period.  PNC Managed Account Solutions Inc. acquired a new stake 
in  Ryanair during the 2nd quarter valued at approximately $79,000.  Finally, Captrust Financial Advisors lifted its 
stake in  Ryanair by 47.8% during the 1st quarter. Captrust Financial Advisors now owns 1,524 shares of the 
transportation company's stock valued at $175,000 after acquiring an additional 493 shares during the period. 
43.91% of the stock is currently owned by hedge funds and other institutional investors.  
Shares of RYAAY  opened at $123.86 on Monday. The company has a current ratio of 1.34, a quick ratio of 1.24 
and a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.96. Ryanair Holdings plc has a 12-month low of $86.91 and a 12-month high of 
$124.54. The firm has a 50-day moving average price of $112.12 and a 200 day moving average price of $111.37. 
The firm has a market capitalization of $27.96 billion, a P/E ratio of -35.19 and a beta of 1.56.  
RYAAY has been the subject of several analyst reports. Evercore ISI upgraded shares of Ryanair from an "in-line" 
rating to an "outperform" rating and boosted their target price for the company from $120.00 to $150.00 in a 
research note on Monday, July 12th. Credit Suisse Group  reiterated an "outperform" rating on shares of Ryanair in 
a research note on Friday, September 17th. Redburn Partners raised shares of Ryanair from a "neutral" rating to a 
"buy" rating and set a $108.24 price target for the company in a report on Tuesday, July 27th. UBS Group  reissued 
a "neutral" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, September 28th. Finally, Barclays  reissued an 
"overweight" rating on shares of Ryanair in a report on Tuesday, November 2nd. Three analysts have rated the 
stock with a hold rating and thirteen have issued  a buy rating to the stock. According to MarketBeat, the stock 
currently has a consensus rating of "Buy" and a consensus target price of $122.48. 
About Ryanair
Amundi Buys Shares of 9,490 Ryanair Holdings plc ( NASDAQ :RYAAY)
Ryanair Holdings Plc engages in the provision of low fares airline-related services. It provides various ancillary 
services and engages in other activities connected with its core air passenger service, including non-flight 
scheduled services, Internet-related services, and the in-flight sale of beverages, food, and merchandise. 
Further Reading: How to find the components of the quick ratio 
Load-Date: November 8, 2021
End of Document
AirAsia charters B737-800(BCF), eyes A321neo freighters
AirAsia charters B737-800(BCF), eyes A321neo freighters
Airguide Business & AirguideBusiness.com
November 08, 2021
Copyright 2021 Pyramid Media Group Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Air and Travel Business News and Features; ISSN: 1939-666X
Length: 585 words
Body
AirAsia Group has chartered in its first dedicated freighter, a B737-800(BCF) operated by Thailand's K-Mile Asia 
(8K, Bangkok Suvarnabhumi), for its Teleport cargo unit but is interested in adding in-house freighters if Airbus 
decides to build a freighter variant of the A321-200neo.
HS-KME (msn 29930) was delivered to K-Mile Asia on October 1, 2021, following conversion at Jinan airport. The 
20.8-year-old ex-Ryanair, Garuda Indonesia, and Aeroméxico aircraft has been repainted into Teleport's livery. It 
will fly under an exclusive charter contract with Teleport but has yet to begin revenue operations. The Thai cargo 
specialist, which is 45%-owned by ASL Airlines Switzerland, also operates two B737-400(SF)s, one B737-400(F), 
and another B737-800(BCF).
"The addition of the freighter into our fleet will accelerate the company's goal to shift from a pure air freight logistics 
provider to a complete multi-modal operator. We've always been on a fast track growth route to continuously propel 
Teleport's air cargo business forward by spotlighting our commitment towards moving anything across Southeast 
Asia," Teleport Chief Executive Pete Chareonwongsak said.
The freighter will be based out of Bangkok Suvarnabhumi and operate to destinations such as Mumbai Int'l, 
Chennai, Delhi Int'l, Hong Kong Int'l, Nagoya Chubu, and Singapore Changi. Its capacity will complement Air Asia's 
existing passenger jet bellyhold cargo capacity
Chief Operating Officer Adrian Loretz added that Teleport would look to expand its B737-800(BCF) fleet to six units 
by 2023.
"It's the first one of many to come. The plan is to absolutely expand that fleet. We are going through the 
assessment now as to how many. Initially, we were planning with six, but as we analyse the market more, we 
understand that there is a large demand going forward. It is a long-term commitment, so it is not what we 
sometimes see to benefit from short-term peaks," Lorentz said.
During the unveiling of the B737-800(BCF), Pete Chareonwongsak told media that the Malaysian holding would 
also be interested in adding new A321neo dedicated freighters most likely through the conversion of some of its 
existing orders for the passenger variant. The ch-aviation fleets advanced module shows that AirAsia has firm 
orders for 362 A321-200NXs.
AirAsia charters B737-800(BCF), eyes A321neo freighters
"For a lot of the markets that we need to reach both in range but also in capacity, it [the A321neo freighter] is a 
great product. Would we be the launch customer? I don't know," he said.
Airbus no longer builds any new dedicated freighters after all remaining A330-200F orders were cancelled. A320-
200(CCF), A320-200(P2F), A321-200(P2F), and A321-200(PCF) conversions exist or are under certification, but no 
supplier has attempted to convert any A320neo Family variants as yet.
Chareonwongsak also said that Teleport would seek to raise USD50-100 million by the end of 2021 and planned to 
list as a separate company within three years. Earlier this year, AirAsia Group said Teleport could be listed as early 
as the second half of 2022. Chareonwongsak underlined that the logistics firm intends to raise sufficient capital this 
year to sustain its growth until it can list.
AirGuide and Pyramid Media connects you to an affluent, influential group of business and leisure travelers from 
across 
the 
globe 
with 
AirGuide 
and 
Frequent 
Flyer 
Destinations 
Magazine. 
Editorial 
eMail: 
edit@AirGuideOnline.com Advertising eMail: advert@AirGuideOnline.com For Advertising and Marketing Solutions 
and For Tech and Content Solutions.
Load-Date: November 12, 2021
End of Document
LONDON BROKER RATINGS: Bernstein downgrades IAG and Ryanair
LONDON BROKER RATINGS: Bernstein downgrades IAG and Ryanair
Alliance News UK
November 8, 2021 Monday 09:40 AM GMT
Copyright 2021 Alliance News Limited All Rights Reserved
Length: 266 words
Body
(Alliance News) - The following London-listed shares received analyst recommendations Monday morning and 
Friday:
----------
FTSE 100
----------
UBS RAISES GLAXOSMITHKLINE PRICE TARGET TO 1,500 (1,460) PENCE - 'NEUTRAL'
----------
BERNSTEIN CUTS INTERNATIONAL CONSOLIDATED AIRLINES TO 'MARKET-PERFORM' ('OUTPERFORM') - 
PRICE TARGET 180 (250) PENCE 
----------
FTSE 250
----------
HSBC CUTS WIZZ AIR PRICE TARGET TO 3,900 (4,100) PENCE - 'REDUCE'
----------
MORGAN STANLEY RAISES ROTORK PRICE TARGET TO 410 (406) PENCE - 'OVERWEIGHT'
----------
LONDON BROKER RATINGS: Bernstein downgrades IAG and Ryanair
CITIGROUP RAISES BEAZLEY PRICE TARGET TO 495 (460) PENCE - 'BUY'
----------
BERENBERG RAISES BEAZLEY PRICE TARGET TO 490 (460) PENCE - 'BUY'
----------
CITIGROUP CUTS TI FLUID SYSTEMS PRICE TARGET TO 320 (370) PENCE - 'BUY'
----------
BERENBERG CUTS ENERGEAN PRICE TARGET TO 1,180 (1,250) PENCE - 'BUY'
----------
BERENBERG RAISES C&C GROUP PRICE TARGET TO 299 (297) PENCE - 'BUY'
----------
BERNSTEIN RAISES EASYJET PRICE TARGET TO 845 (800) PENCE - 'OUTPERFORM'
----------
RBC RAISES PETS AT HOME PRICE TARGET TO 490 (470) PENCE - 'SECTOR PERFORM'
----------
RBC RAISES CURRYS PRICE TARGET TO 150 (135) PENCE - 'SECTOR PERFORM'
----------
BARCLAYS CUTS HELIOS TOWERS TO 'EQUAL WEIGHT' ('OVERWEIGHT') - TARGET 160 (190) PENCE
----------
JEFFERIES CUTS ELEMENTIS PRICE TARGET TO 175 (180) PENCE - 'BUY' 
----------
OTHER MAIN MARKET AND AIM
----------
BERNSTEIN CUTS RYANAIR TO 'MARKET-PERFORM' ('OUTPERFORM') - PRICE TARGET 18.40 (18.50) EUR
----------
RBC CUTS SUPERDRY PRICE TARGET TO 390 (400) PENCE - 'SECTOR PERFORM' 
----------
Copyright 2021 Alliance News Limited. All Rights Reserved.
Load-Date: November 8, 2021
End of Document
Carriers pin hopes on hot demand for Greece
Carriers pin hopes on hot demand for Greece
Financial Times (London, England)
November 8, 2021 Monday
Edition 1, National Edition
Copyright 2021 The Financial Times Limited All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 383 words
Byline: ALICE HANCOCK ; PHILIP GEORGIADIS
Body
UK airlines are preparing to lay on hundreds of thousands more seats between Britain and Greece next summer 
than they did in 2019, in the hope of a boom in foreign holidays as travel restrictions ease.
Jet2 and easyJet are among carriers that have added capacity to their pre-pandemic flight schedule for 2022. Jet2 
said it had 1m more seats on sale between Greece and the UK than it had offered in 2019, while easyJet has plans 
to add about 500,000 more flight tickets to its schedule, subject to space being made available at airports.
"Having met most of the tour operators and airline companies here in the UK ... we are very, very optimistic about 
2022," said Vassilis Kikilias, Greece's tourism minister, speaking to the Financial Times at the World Travel Market 
conference in London.
Kikilias said that Greece was expecting 35 per cent more tourists from the UK next year than it had in 2021, 
equalling the record level of about 3.6m in 2019. He forecast that the "sun, sea and sand" season would start earlier 
than usual, in March.
Michael O'Leary, chief executive of Ryanair, has said he expects the recovery to hit full swing by next summer, 
when his airline will be operating more than 500 new routes across Europe.
"We are looking at very substantial growth next year," he said.
Carriers pin hopes on hot demand for Greece
Several tour operators, including Tui, Europe's largest, have said that reservations for holidays in summer 2022 
have already surpassed the level of bookings at the equivalent point in 2019, with consumers choosing to spend 
savings from lockdown on higher-grade accommodation and resorts.
Greece was one of the first European countries to reopen to international tourists following the first lockdowns in 
2020. Tourism-related income makes up about 25 per cent of the country's gross domestic product.
The UK is Greece's second-largest inbound market after Germany but tight UK restrictions on travel this year forced 
many to holiday at home.
Kikilias said the country had taken a "calculated risk" in opening up early but it had paid off with greater confidence 
from consumers that it was safe to travel to Greece. The government installed extra doctors in hotels, added health 
service workers to Greece's popular island destinations and used (EURO)320m of EU funding to upgrade its 
tourism sector, the minister said.
Load-Date: November 7, 2021
End of Document
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Hits New 52-Week High at $18.59
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Hits New 52-Week High at $18.59
Newstex Blogs 
DailyPolitical
November 8, 2021 Monday 9:20 PM EST
Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 458 words
Body
Nov 08, 2021( DailyPolitical: http://www.dailypolitical.com/ Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryanair Holdings plc (LON:RYA) shares hit a new 52-week high during mid-day trading on Monday . The stock 
traded as high as GBX 18.59 ($0.24) and last traded at GBX 17.98 ($0.23), with a volume of 480656 shares trading 
hands. The stock had previously closed at GBX 18.11 ($0.24). 
Separately, Liberum Capital reiterated a "hold" rating and set a GBX 1,700 ($22.21) price objective on shares of 
Ryanair in a research note on Monday, July 26th. 
The business has a fifty day moving average price of GBX 16.57 and a 200-day moving average price of GBX 
16.44. The company has a current ratio of 1.24, a quick ratio of 1.11 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 127.94. The stock 
has a market capitalization of 202.97 million and a PE ratio of -18.27.  
Ryanair Company Profile (LON:RYA[1]) 
Ryanair Holdings plc, together with its subsidiaries, provides scheduled-passenger airline services in Ireland, the 
United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Germany, and Other European countries. It is also involved in the provision of various 
ancillary services, such as non-flight scheduled services and internet-related services; in-flight sale of beverages, 
food, and merchandise; and marketing accommodation and hotel services, car hire, and travel insurance through its 
Website and mobile app. 
See Also: How Buying a Call Option Works[2] 
 [ 1]: https://www.marketbeat.com/stocks/LON/RYA/ [ 2]: https://www.marketbeat.com/financial-terms/what-is-call-
option/ 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex 
Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its 
re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The 
material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, 
in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" 
before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees 
about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, 
nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be 
construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as 
to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. 
Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.
Ryanair (LON:RYA) Hits New 52-Week High at $18.59
Load-Date: November 8, 2021
End of Document
